ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26794	You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović, Momir Markovic, Petar Jojić, Milan Stevović, Vojislav Milajić, Bozidar Koprivica, Miljko Četrović, Bora Kutić, Milorad Mirčić, Dragan Colic, Milovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Branislav Rankić and Veroljub Arsic. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26795	The amendment to Article 1 is identical with the other amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, and the amendment reads that Article 1 is deleted, as we ask for all other members to be deleted. The SRS parliamentary group and this time these amendments show a principled view of this proposal, which is how we try to make it clear that there is no need for this law to be passed. It is an incredible need for the Serbian government, which is the continuation of the previous government, the previous "yellow" regime, to disqualify education acquired through regular education and to introduce some licenses, some special training. The truth is that you have devalued education, especially higher education, with your laws, but we still have personnel who are trained under those better laws and better programs. It's really unnecessary to pass one of these laws. First, I don't understand why this hastiness to pass a law today that will not apply until 1 March 2007. What do you plan to do in the meantime, and what is needed to start this law, and only next year? I don't know why you're in such a hurry, why you're trying with this law and this law to throw dust in the eyes of the citizens of Serbia. Why don't you say Angela Merkel told you three days ago that there's no EU enlargement, and you're still coming in, you're proving it, and you're doing it with some ridiculous laws that have nothing to do with the real needs of Serbian citizens. We keep telling you and warning you that it is high time for the government to start taking good care of its citizens and to start passing laws that citizens will positively feel in everyday life. In the light of the amendments, I wrote among other things that if this bill were to be adopted then, by the logic of the matter, similar laws should be passed which would introduce training for the president of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, ministers, MPs, and given that all parties in the judicial proceedings are equal, then also for lawyers, defenders, defendants, defendants, etc. This is a fact. This may seem a little caricated, but that's the way it is. It would have been particularly good if you had proposed an act or a law on the training of MPs, because what was just seen after the quorum was determined is indeed a disgrace for this Parliament, that MPs gathered to put in cards and that now, in accordance with your rules of procedure, as a stampede, they are running out, that they cannot continue the work of those people who want to work here. They can't work until the people who came here just put the cards in. In that sense, it would be good, but you don't need it for that law, you can do it with your MP groups, see if you're teaching your colleagues at least a little bit to suit themselves. Otherwise, you said in Article 1 that this law lays down the kind and manner of training of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants. So why did you need this, why do you keep finding ways to spend money on something that really doesn't have any need? Once again, Minister, I'm going to ask you what you've done to improve the conditions of working in the judiciary, what you've done to raise the salary in the judiciary, especially with the salary increase in the judiciary. Remember, when we talked here about the Court Tax Act, we told you to at least make sure that, so drastically increased, you'd see the fees in the budget and, based on them, you'd increase your salaries to the employees. That's when you promised it would be, but, of course, no one in the judiciary got a five-dollar pay. But that is why the government says why it refuses, why it does not accept this amendment: "The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the existing legal framework for training of judicial holders in Serbia, in addition to failing to comply with international standards, does not regulate their training system in a comprehensive manner, nor provides for its effective organisation and implementation. This is precisely the reason for the legal regulation of the matter in question in the way proposed by the draft law. In addition, it is now most important, "The draft law is in line with the documents of the Council of Europe, whose Serbia-Montenegro is a member, and by Recommendation R 12 (94) of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to the Member States on the independence, efficiency and role of judges from 1994 and the European Charter of Law for Judges of 1998. "It is nice, Minister, to have found a legal basis in these acts of the Council of Europe, but you have found no legal basis for this law in our Constitution. I expect you to explain it to us because it is in the light of my amendment, and in principle we told you that you do not have a legal, or constitutional basis for proposing this law. We had this the other day from one of your colleagues, though he is a lawyer, but I am particularly surprised that you, Minister of Justice, are proposing laws that are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is indeed high time for you in the Government to stop acting by ignoring the Constitution, to act as if Serbia had no Constitution; and now you will bring laws from this or that area and then you will glean from all these laws and under these laws you will make the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think you know that it goes backwards, that the laws are in line with the existing Constitution. Whether you like the constitution or not, it is the only constitution that must be respected in the Republic of Serbia, and there is no reason not to like it because it is good, there are several archaic things in that constitution that should have changed. Of course, neither you nor those yellow ones are ready to change the Constitution, you won't do it, because the change of the Constitution involves extraordinary elections at all levels. Of course, you don't get paid for that job, and then you do what you do. When we talked about this justice reform strategy, I asked in the form of a parliamentary issue to write me who is funding and how much this strategy costs, now not to read this whole letter, but it is again part of a World Bank project to strengthen Serbia's administrative justice system. In fact, I specifically asked why you needed those advertising on TV, completely excess, whatever it is that we tell the citizens of Serbia in television ads, in the EPP what justice system should be. Citizens know that, and they need a government that will provide such justice, not in advertising, to tell them what kind of justice they need. They know all Serbian citizens that the judiciary should be independent, efficient, they all felt it more or less on their own skin, so it was really unnecessary for you to insult citizens' intelligence with such ads. It would have been much better if you had given the ad, but, of course, provided you could claim it, to write – citizens of Serbia, Minister and Government of Serbia guarantee that from today on, it is the judiciary, so as you wrote it should be. Then you wrote to me, Ministers – after the procedure, yes, there was some procedure, so the Ministry of Justice called for a public relations agency to do a strategy and a plan of activity and to implement a pi-ar campaign that had tasks: to inform the general public that a judicial reform strategy was done (I don't know how you could inform the public, i.e. how people know that a reform of justice was done when MPs don't know it; I don't know who else needs to know); further, to ensure co-operation with the media and to arrange together as many direct appearances of the Justice Ministry and those who participated in the creation of a strategy to present the strategy to the public. I really don't know what you need for these pi-ars and what you need for these tenders, so there are so many political shows on our televisions, you from the ruling coalition don't get off small screens. I really don't know what else you asked for. Furthermore, to initiate communication with the public of the Ministry of Justice and the expert public on concrete topics from the justice reform strategy. So, this is about "the rotten grandmother flax to pass her day", nothing means, Ministers, both the Ministry and the citizens of Serbia, but the preparation and broadcast of advertising that appears on TV cost a total of $6,780: preparing 3,580 and broadcasting $3,200. On the one hand, when you look at it, it's not a large amount of money, but when you know what conditions our judges and courts are doing, how much salaries are employed in courts, what are the conditions in the rooms, some of them, we do have very sophisticated courts, but we also have courts that are in some sheds, holes that it's terrible, then in such conditions and those $6,780 really are literally throwing money, and it's unacceptable. Now you say here, Minister, that 97% of this amount has been paid from the World Bank's donation and only 3% from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So in order to get some kind of poor $6,700 donation, you're willing to do whatever they tell you about that little money, and for that little money, they're keeping you in the loop, so you have to keep doing what they're asking you to do. Yesterday, Minister, late last night, until you came back, I told the ruling majority here why all these jobs were in vain and that your story, or story, was told by a colleague on this side of the parliamentary benches, from this so-called. The ruling majority, if that is still the case, is saying that you will really fight crime in Serbia, that these shots are empty, that this government can neither do nor will. Then last night, I listed about twenty cases and evidence that is why you will not and cannot fight crime in Serbia – of course, because you are in crime and part of the current government and those from the yellow thief enterprise, which you and how you protect because you are in permanent co-habitation with them. Of course, you're preparing for a new future coalition, to reduce the importance of a common force, or percentage of the SRS, which, of course, you don't have a chance. I forgot last night, I didn't have any, I had one letter left at home, Bekim Kastrati's case. Crassus, listen to this. It was delivered to Oscar de Soto, the political commissioner of the Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna on 16 November 2000. "Thank you again, Chairman. We have joined the EU's call to the SRJ authorities to discuss the procedure for the rapid resolution and rapid release of Mr Kastrati and all other political prisoners of the SRJ. We remind you that President Kostunica has confirmed that it is his government's priority to form a department of amnesty for political prisoners. We welcome the presidential's efforts, as regards this issue, including the letter by Ferrero-Waldner, which was sent two weeks ago to President Kostunica, with an emphasis on Mr Kastrati's question. We also welcome the efforts of the secretariats to help a man regain his freedom. This will remain a question America will pay attention to until Mr. Kastrati returns to his family." Mr. Kastrati is Shiptar, who is as a criminal, the perpetrator of many crimes caught and arrested by our military authorities during NATO's aggression against Serbia-Montenegro and handed over to the judicial authorities. He's a CIA agent and that's why America is fighting for his freedoms, and Kostunica accepts his release. Three days ago, I watched and listened to the video of this man confessing to what he did, how many Serbs he killed, whom he slaughtered, how he believed or not, thanks to Vojislav Kostunica. If such a government guarantees a fight against crime, it's an honor, but we don't believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26796	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26797	I'm just reporting to give some answers, because I can understand the principle of agreement or disagreement whether or not the judges should be trained. Some things are being brought out here, and even incorrectly, and a clear answer is being given. I'll tell you what this is about. They say here the law is against the Constitution. I suggest we take a look at the Constitution and see. The Constitution in every country, including ours, regulates only the basic principles of justice, and everything else (organisation, work, etc.) is regulated by law. Therefore, this law is fully in line with the Law on Courts, for it says beautifully that judges should be provided with training for better quality work. This is the way it's definitely regulated, so it doesn't go unregulated. You have a center, but you don't have any law that needs to predict exactly what needs to be done. It's one of those commitments that we made by signing international documents. We can agree here whether these documents are working or not, but we were all pleased to accept those documents. International law, there's an integral part of this right, and it even has a priority. So, if it comes to the Constitution, make sure this is in accordance with the Constitution. This is where you say - citizens know what they need. I'm convinced, because I'm going after Serbia and I know what they need, and I've received a huge number of complaints. The majority refers to the inefficientness and inquality of the work of the courts. Citizens are looking for better quality and more efficient work of courts. If there is no proper training, because it is one of the greatest cries that courts and are not brilliant for some expertise and knowledge, then we have to do something to improve that quality. Quality can only be improved by better training of judges. Normally, young judges will have a different principle of training than those who have experience, so-called Permanent training, where it has proved essentially that these elected judges do not read the rules very often. Then we get into a situation where we have problems. I've been going after Serbia, I say I don't do stories, but I'm going to go see where you have 60-65 percent of the missing. The quality is 65 percent abolished. That's when I told people -- people, if you don't want to read already, which you don't throw away, the probability law will make 50 percent of the decisions affected. So the problem is big, and the people are crying out for some better-quality court. The inadequacy of the court directly leads to ineffectiveness. You're being tried for a year or two, and you're suspended, and then after a year or two, you have to retake the second verdict. Automatically duplicated time limit to complete the case. On the other hand, we have a center, he needs to be arranged. That's why we decided it would be March of the month, because sublaws should be passed. It is necessary to establish organs that will work properly. Here it is said - we will not be admitted into the EU. There's no discussion here. We have to do something for us and this people. We are doing this, and it is part of this reform that is envisaged and it is one of the tasks that we have to fulfil. The March moon was determined for those objective reasons. The centre ends down in Germany, a valid programme should be developed, bodies should be designated to take care of it and how these jobs are done. We can agree or disagree on some things, but you'll find it hard to convince me that it is, for example. for France, Germany, which have a long tradition and have their own academy and schools, it is unnecessary. For such countries, which have a long period of development, even a peaceful period, it is necessary, and we who are in transition have a huge problem, and here we are thinking whether we need it or not. I mean, not that we need it, but we need it more than we need it. As for this emphasis that some money was given for the propaganda of the reform, it was first said to be the expense of our hungry people. Demagogy clean, but it doesn't fit the facts. When we sent the answer... Now comes another story. It should be said that the answer is clearly written – the European Union, since we have accepted that a valid regulation of this area has been carried out and that we provide a valid education, separated it a year and a half ago, because this strategy has been done for a year and a half, about 200,000 euros in order to enable material conditions to be done, for a working group that will do this and similar things. Of these funds there are about six thousand and something and it's said, we're going to give it to the people of the strategy, to get to know what the strategy is. So that money wasn't taken from this people, as it was spoken incorrectly, nor could they have come to any other segment of society, but only to make a strategy. What we're asked to do here is now to keep quiet, $20 is given for the material costs of cells in the interior that have been paid. Those poorer cells couldn't accept my request and escort the media without the dinars. That's what the World Bank paid for. Large stations, such as the national RTS, have indeed accepted to properly send the media campaign free of charge, because it was not disputed that the people should be approached and told what the strategy is, what we want to do to it and what they will get as end users. These are the things that have been done with this strategy. Besides, I don't have to now, I can show you later, we've done an action program of the whole strategy. So, we're already doing a lot of things. We're not going, at least my ministry isn't going to talk, it's working. I'm going to show you a complete action plan, and you can immediately implement what's called the so-called action plan. The medium-term and those long-term tasks, we did in the short term, looking at the strategy that we need. I repeat again, we are not doing this because we are entering Europe, but if we want to be an orderly part of Europe, we come in, we do not enter, we need to have harmonised regulations and that what is good works in the entire territory of Europe, including us. I'm sure it will benefit our people, because good justice, high-quality and efficient, is what the people cry for. Therefore, do not transfer us if we are doing anything to do so. If you say, like right now, that we need to fight corruption, why do we have to fight every project or proposal to make something better against it; let's once do what we need to do, so we can take a step forward and in that area. For these reasons, I don't mind saying – we don't need them, we're good judges, judge, they know. I can give you the information, I got the information, now that I've gone to check it out, after a year and a half since applying the Law on Prosecution, some judges haven't read it. Do we have to do something to get them to do what they're supposed to do to give the people to do it? We'll do it this way, because it'll be far more valid control, so if we have to, we'll solve it. Give them a chance to learn something. You say it's good. I don't think so, and I think we should do everything we can to give them conditions, and then get rid of them. That's the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26798	Replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26799	I didn't say that, and I didn't mean it, of course, and it didn't look like it. First, Minister, I asked you about the constitutional basis of this law, and you said it - it is in accordance with the Constitution. I expect when I communicate with the lawyer and tell me – it is in line with the member team and team, the attitude and that Constitution. Next, you're talking about transition. I really don't see what transitions have to do with the judiciary. Do you privatise the courts? What's this about? You say you're visiting Serbia and making sure you're on the spot. You go to court and you talk to the President of the Court, because they're mostly yours or they're yellow. You apologize nicely to them, look at the results, and I believe you're doing it. I am, Minister, every day in a town, every night I'm somewhere in Serbia. You know, every day we have the promotion of our president Vojislav Seselj's book "The Witness of the Defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague Process" and they are full of halls not only of the members of the SRS, but of the other parties or of the non-partisan personalities, and of course, after that we talk about everything. I know as well as you do, if not better, what Serbian citizens expect from the judiciary. They expect independent and independent justice, to be tried by law, that the law is equal for all and that they are all equal before the law. They expect you to finally clear up and clear the courts of corrupt judges and prosecutors. That's what the citizens of Serbia expect from you. When you do, and we keep telling you this, we want to help you fix the situation in the judiciary because it is the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Minister, as long as you don't clean up the personnel that are the problem... There are few, many more honorable and professional judges and prosecutors in Serbia, thank God much more, but few of those who make life worse for Serbian citizens must be removed from the judiciary. You know, you talk on TV and here, you're satisfied because Goran Kljajevic was arrested. Of course, I don't mind. I guess everyone, especially people who know what that man's been doing for six years. I keep asking – why did he spend six years destroying the economy in Serbia so that after six years he probably resented someone, didn't get a good hold of them, didn't share the loot well, and then ended up in custody? Then what's going on? Then is the media hack, the media war, and businessmen appear, and one day a title of this size, which gives some hundreds of thousands of euros to free Goran Kljajevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26800	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26801	I'm done. All of a sudden, the story stops. So you didn't behave properly in this case either, as a ministry. You should have stopped and said that the government guarantees these judges (not some protected witnesses there to protect) and security and everything else, to do this job to the end and to do it in accordance with the law and to tell the public which businessmen offered money to free Goran Kljajevic, Mr. Minister. We don't have that information. Here you are distracting us with the story that you will send the judges who have graduated from law schools and some have mastered, and all have passed the judicial exam, to send courses to Gordana Mihajlović, Željko Šcepanovića, etc. We know the ministers, all those judges who haven't passed here, these out of Belgrade, only yellow, here's the two I've listed, they'll be the ones who'll train the judges. We know it, and you know it, you just have to say it, and we say it. Among other things, that's why we're against this law of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26802	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26803	You say you stand up for a valid judiciary. I really don't know what that means to you, but I'd like you to stand up for this kind of justice that I, on behalf of the SRS, brought here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26804	The word has Minister Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26805	I wouldn't argue with the previous speaker, but let's not be false. Here I am calling, when I go on a tour of the courts, with all the materials I'm working on, to have the messenger come with me. But to go public and say -- the minister is meeting with the presidents. No, I call all the judges and I tell them openly – this is not good, this is good, let's see what we can do. I have the courage to say, I'm not infallible, if I'm wrong, say what I should do. So let's stick to the truth. They've always been all the judges called, all the prosecutors, the judges for the offenses to come and talk. I have nothing to talk to the President of the Court. On the contrary, with those whose work is such that we have problems, and that's what I'm saying... I don't mind going together next time and seeing everyone sees and how I talk and what I'm talking about. No, you told me to call those yellow presidents of my court and talk to them. Now I don't know 90% of the president of the courts, but I come out in the open and I say, you tell me. Let's not make these little mistakes, you know, I really don't contact the presidents of the courts. I announce myself, I officially come and say - that's why I'm coming, and you know it. I think your members know, too, I see them when I go around Serbia and there really weren't any of these remarks, and it's not the right thing to say about a pay phone like this when it's known that it's not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26806	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? There is a word, according to the amendment, MP Vojkan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26807	The esteemed chairman, dear colleagues, when we talk about this law and the concept that is envisaged and outlined in the judicial reform strategy, this segment is very important and it is one of the key ones for the transition of the Serbian judiciary. Radeta, a colleague, said it was not a privatisation of the Serbian judiciary and that it was not part of which should be conducted in the judiciary. On the contrary, I think that the transition to the judiciary involves reforming education and training, modernising and all that will allow all Serbian citizens to get the best possible court attitude towards all those who appear before the judicial authorities. Therefore, one of the key messages of the justice reform strategy is that through the judicial centre, which is now conducting training and education, all the people in the judiciary are in some way involved in permanent education and education, regardless of whether judges, judges, prosecutors, deputy prosecutors. Modern-day education involves education throughout life and work. Therefore, anyone who is against this law is essentially against the modernisation of this segment of our society and I think it is absolutely unacceptable. On the other hand, this law, as set out, and that is why I am speaking against this amendment, will allow a national institute that will be formed to provide adequate knowledge that will provide another criterion for the election of judges in a judicial capacity that will have a high judicial advice before it to serve as one of the criteria for the proper selection of the best candidates to run for the choice of judicial functions. Therefore, absolutely anyone who is against this law is simply not for modernising and transforming the judiciary into the modern Serbian judiciary that we very much need.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26808	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as part of this joint debate on a package of judicial laws, we did not have time in principle to deal with something special with this law on training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy prosecutors, judicial and prosecutorial assistants, but it is clear what I found as a source and as real information, and it is a programme that will only follow the government of the Republic of Serbia, if it continues to negotiate with those with whom it agrees with legislative proposals. Namely, in the Commission for EU Negotiations, whose opinion you and how much you care about, it is clear in the report of 9 November last year that this is just the beginning and that the next law will be named – financial support for the Centre for Training of Judges. So it's just plain here that the future legislative project will make it clear how much money will be allocated, and we, through all these amendments and through the whole debate on this bill, think there's going to be a huge money laundering. We Serbian radicals have a great problem with the current relationship and situation in the Serbian judiciary, not because there are no high-quality judges, quality legal experts, young people who have yet to come into a position to be elected to this very important function and that it is honorable and safe, but because this negative selection of the five-octobaric coup has taken so long to this day that you now if you were to draw a map of Serbia and start from court to court, from county to county, you would be overcome by this schizophrenic yellow color. It's just a color that schizophrenics can love, people who have psychos, not to say other distractions and problems. Everyone will tell you, I don't know if Professor Vojnovic is there, but it is likely that he would agree with the position of his profession, but because someone decided to paint the courts in Serbia with yellow paint does not mean that such a law should also mean that people who are capable, professional and those who have been educated, with the highest grades finished law school and passed a judicial exam, should be further trained according to the law as you predicted. When my colleague Radeta spoke about the amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, I heard that in particular, ministers, she pointed out that he did not agree with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you had read, and had, you are a minister and you must, even better than we MPs, the exception is we Serbian radicals, we have all of this in a small finger, every member of the Constitution knows at three o'clock at night, that you know all the members from 95 to 106 who speak about what courts and public prosecutors are, you couldn't find a foothold for something like this. In article 2, you define one strategic way, so does the NATO Pact in its military doctrine accepted by the traitor, agent of the CIA, Zoran Stankovic, and began to promote that doctrine 15 days ago in Kragujevac, so it goes in turn, with the consequences far more extensively because their goal is to bring Serbia down to eight cities. I don't believe that the goal is to bring Serbia down to eight courts or eight districts, where these courts will be with these highly professional and trained judges. If you say "the concept and the purpose of training", it looks like some military doctrine, it has nothing to do with the judiciary and what these people are supposed to do. Is such a way of training these listed to be trained under this new law established in other aspects of our social life and in other professions? Is it necessary for you, Minister, to train before you become Minister? For some of your colleagues with a naked eye, one can find that, on no basis, their education and qualifications in that sense, but as a person, and especially by their behavior, they could not pass that door on Nemanja Street. You have one that the minister, who publicly stated the other day that maltenes are suffering from anxiety depression, says he can cry any minute. Such is the minister of agriculture, according to the woman on Ustasha TV B-92. Then what are we talking about, Minister? Imagine if you were to train further, there is, though, because of the new law on education of additional training for teachers, you know, for those who teach in high schools, because of the entry into force of the Bologna Declaration... But this is what you wrote: "The training of the holders of judicial duties and of judicial and prosecutorial assistants is organized to acquire and perfect theoretical and practical knowledge and skills necessary for the independent, professional and effective exercise of judicial duty"... You don't know what years ended with the success of law school, and after that, for many years, you've also been a successful judge. Did you need that kind of training? You have shown your work, someone has assessed, has assessed Kostunica who has come into the situation, by concluding this coalition government and those who support it, to choose ministers and staff who will lead those portfolios, but he probably thought so – the man ended up with high grades of law school. You're not this Stankovic who graduated from medical school at 6.25, so you drove him away with VMA and now he's a military minister, which is a disaster. There may be some of your colleagues from other resistors, but no one has asked the question of your training. I can't believe it's the fruit of your thinking, Mr. Stojkovic, and you think it's the way people need to train to come. That financial resources are needed, that the problem in Kragujevac after the law of the Court of Appeals is that there is now no building in which the Court of Appeal should be placed, that better computer equipment is needed, that it is necessary that people who are not only judges and prosecutors and assistants, but simply employees (you know that they were the loudest in terms of strikes, their status and profits when they are increased by judges, and they are not, that is during Batic's ministry), all of this stands, but why you will find one special law. You will see that they will ask you, because, perhaps you are not informed, I think that Kostunica alone is not in that government, but obviously you don't know, it says in their report that the lack of training of legal holders, that they have yet to undergo certain training, that a special centre should be formed for this, and that it is necessary that after the adoption of the new criminal code and the law on training of judges, prosecutors, assistants, follow the law on financial support. So Dinkic's making hats all over again. The court, the prosecutor's office should be independent. We all advocate an independent judiciary as a special branch of government and you will again depend on one man. That he is Pera Peric, not who he is, Mladjan Dinkic, who is an ossion and boast when it comes to all this giving and when he promises one thing and lies and says something else or in his own way determines how he will give money, it is not a good thing. You know that as a party, we advocate that – in addition to the fact that the National Assembly as an independent body, the most legislative body, should have its own budget and, as such, be outside all influences, outside of all the tycoon lobbys that have made individuals elected on certain parliamentary lists go to an independent or other flock – the judiciary in Serbia also has the possibility, through an independent financial basis, to perfect these people, but you do not need a special law. That is why we felt, in addition to being opposed to certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that one law should not be passed in particular, but that through much more serious work and your ministry, and above all the work of those you trusted to handle the courts in Serbia, a positive staff selection was carried out. It is not present today in Serbia, and how negative it has been since 5 October, so to speak. We spoke countless times before it was formally legalized by his choice, who Goran Kljajevic is and that he fell into the former economic court, later Trgovinski, what kind of group of people around him, how many times he sat down, how many people went into the dispute because of the fact that the rest were sore, robbed. Everyone kept quiet, and he was protected like a white bear. You can't understand, Your Honor, that there are such judges in the city I live in that I... 99.99% are honorable, but it's the promiscuity that goes to the detriment of the judge's office and creates suspicion among citizens, who enters a variety of mafia affairs, and someone would say that's petty. But, you know, nothing's petty. The minimum material value is as well as that it has entered some deal and made an arrangement for a million euros. I see it that way, every citizen sees it that way. Everyone needs to work for their salary, to be safe and responsible for their work. Let it go, that's how he ended up with this or that, they're connected to certain clans of lawyers. They will not be taught by this law, and that is what needs to be changed in Serbia and you know it very well. Many judges need to change, and yet I say, as a percentage of 100%, they are a huge minority, but also how the thorn in the eye of ordinary citizens, who seek a fair trial, the right to receive a fair trial, who are poor, and who have to pay for expensive services by lawyers. Some of them manage one way or another, but there are a lot of people who also come to our legal advisors, in every committee, in every city. Here in Belgrade, we have one of the best legal councils, we have both in Kragujevac and in other cities in Serbia, but that is insufficient help. We can listen to these people and our lawyers give them some lessons, some suggestions. Don't think that this law and this kind of training will change something important between judges and judicial officials. It is that it is necessary to change the colour on that map of the Serbian judiciary and not to be this kind of thing, be it the color of justice, and be it the color that will guarantee Serbian citizens security at any time, not to think from the hearing to the hearing whether someone has run into that judge by side or directly, whether he has given him so much money, and to fear for his fate. You know, which is for someone or for the looks of the smallest assets and the slightest value, and someone's in a dispute over it, and someone on the side is going to say, what does these tycoons like these yellow Gilas and others or this director of the yellow office, the National Office of Prokupela, who is a candidate for the prosecutor, what do they care; if a man has a problem with some small plot, around one part of the house, he's all in his life. Believe me, Your Honor, in a long-standing, almost 15-year-old practice, since I've been working intensively on this job and the parliamentary work, I've come across cases where people who have long, because of the lack of urgency of the courts have been ill in property and legal dispute; or that people who are in dispute with the company, or with a new owner who has not paid off what was his obligation under the social programme, have been evicted to the street. It's people who are heart patients, with elevated sugar, people who, because of the pain that made them disabled. In addition to eradicating crime and corruption, an effective and fair trial is Serbia's greatest desire, and to do something, to start the economy. Anything else to tell him, you know, he's going to look at the future of his children and how the state is going to go on and be stable and live free as a people, but it's his biggest pain, that he has crime and corruption and that he can't satisfy justice and what's available in that people's way, but it's slow, but some people have this slowness for 15, 20 years and people have no patience anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26810	The word is Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26811	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting again for this amendment, because the DSS cannot accept that someone is proposing to delete this member who proposes that the constant training of the people in the judiciary be done. That's why I would like to read what is proposed to be deleted because of the citizens of Serbia. So – acquiring and perfecting the theoretical and practical knowledge and skills needed for the independent, professional and efficient exercise of judicial duty. I think that Serbian citizens need such justice, such judges are needed. However, it is interesting that the previous speaker said a few things in which we agree and supported part of the national strategy for judicial reform, when she said she advocated the financial independent judiciary. The strategy envisions that after a transitional period of justice in Serbia, the financial independent budget is also in place. Therefore, it is not bad to agree and agree in that part. One of the other messages of the previous speaker is that after this, a new law is followed by the financing of training and education and, in some ways, money laundering goes. I must tell you that every donation that goes towards education, education and any area in Serbia is welcome and we should accept them with much goodwill and get as many, both in the judiciary, both in health, education and all other segments where we lack education and modernisation. Therefore, this law provides us with this segment that gives us the basis for modernising the judiciary that we absolutely need. As for the fact that the Constitution does not lay the basis for such a law, it is absolutely not true, because nowhere in the Constitution does it say that the holders of judicial functions cannot be educated, that they are later educated, that they go to additional training, to acquire new skills, and it does not write anywhere. Why would it say in the Constitution that someone can't be further educated, because it's a completely wrong thesis that can only draw all those who want to get further education and get new callings down, not towards gaining new callings and perfecting already acquired knowledge. When I spoke in the principle debate on the justice reform strategy, I said that many judges, honor of exceptions, have done nothing to further education since they became judges, and that is unfortunately true. However, our greatest success will be if we educate new generations of judges who will have such a task that they will be the bearers of the new effective judiciary that we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26812	The word has been issued by MP Velimir Simonovic following the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26813	I have to express my surprise to spend so many words to prove that no additional education is required for judges, prosecutors, etc. Do you know that if today someone after studying, no matter what a student, doesn't follow literature for five years, maybe even a lot, becomes unusable in their profession. Seminars are often held, for example. for engineers organized by the Society of Engineers and Technicians, Engineering Faculty or some other colleges. People come all the time to hear some new things. I especially liked what was in this article to gain new theoretical knowledge. All sciences are progressing, and so is legal science progressing, perfecting, new results are coming, etc. It's normal for judges and prosecutors to be educated. Don't you know there's a so-called. Permanent education; a man has to follow the profession to retirement, and if he doesn't get lazy, and after retirement he follows his literature.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26814	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3 reads: "Train can be initial and permanent. The initial training is attended by the holders of judicial duties prior to the entry into office of both the judge and the prosecutor's assistants." Item 3: "Statern training is attended by the holders of judicial duties." On account of the statements of those who are surprised here, to God, as the MPs of the SRS wonder why they need that kind of training, especially those who are already performing the most significant judicial duties, I'll tell you a few things. Judges aren't silly and we don't talk about people who have a problem with intelligence, education or, God forbid, some health problems that are related to their contemplative abilities. Judges in Serbia do not judge by the 1945 law or by the 1968 law; of course they have training, because they read "The Official Messenger", they have every new law and apply the new law. What's new to do, what's to train? They read every new process norm that comes, every new material norm. What else do they have to do – train to wear shoes on heels or without heels, are they going to wear these or those pants? The job of the judge is to apply the law, one single, extremely difficult and responsible job. What else does he need training for? I'll tell you what he needs training for. So far, training has taken place, as Mr. Minister knows, in order for certain services to take control of our prosecutors and judges, particularly specialised, especially those who can commit certain political abuses. That was the only reason. There was absolutely no one else. Why don't you explain to me what he's doing, say, Sam Nazaro, and what his job is when it comes to our prosecution and our judiciary. I'm asking you what they were training for, what kind of perfection did they go to, what guy? Did they go to law school? That'd be fine, I don't mind. They have Tara, they have "Law Life," archives, anals, anyone can read the latest texts on the Internet, they're all dressed, I don't think there's any illiterate in that computer sense. I don't understand what else they went for. It seems to me they're going for political instruction. If that's what you mean by training, then it's completely pointless. I don't know what else would be meant by training. I think it's good that there's more practice at law school than before, that people who learn at law school, who learn both civil and criminal law, have more practice than they've ever had and know how to apply it. If I hadn't had this many lawsuits that others have filed against me, I wouldn't have known a lot of things, even though I had finished law school with good ones, not to say the highest grades. I think practice is necessary in that sense. A man who's been judging for 20 years, who knows everything, a prosecutor who knows everything, but it's a matter of political opportunism what he's going to do and how he's going to behave, you're training now -- you know, in this case you're doing, and you're keeping this in a third drawer, and you're not pressing charges here because you don't have anything to back it up, etc. That's ridiculous. That's what people know about it. Do you think that some prosecutor knows that he should prosecute Vukic for 600,000 dinar bonuses for the entire ministry, and that he should not go after 900,000 in just three months, Dacic, Pejcic and Biserko Matic-Spasojevic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you think someone in the D.A. doesn't think it's pointless that he's chasing some wolf to participate in a violent group because he was in front of a house where Sljivancanin was arrested, even though I was hit by a cop, not me by him? Of course it's pointless. He got a political warrant. What are you training him for? What is he, illiterate, doesn't know what it is? They know everything. Do the judges know that? Yeah, they know everything and most judges are honest, honest and responsible people. I want them to know that. When we talk about these "yellow" thieves, we're talking about a minority who unfortunately usurped part of the Justice Summit, as you know, Mr. Minister. I'm sure that's what you're trying to fight. We have a lot of unexplained things, amazing things. We also have confusion, we have miraculous political cases of various murders, where five times he returns from the Supreme Court to the district courts. No one alive knows what it's about anymore. I don't want to react to the stupid statements of various politicians, and I don't know which people, nor do I care. There really are some amazing things going on. I don't know what that's about. Then people lose their trust in the judiciary. There's one more thing. I know Serbs like to be tried, for honey, for two stones, for three dinars, and I don't know what. That's true, don't lie to yourself. I know that justice will never work for anyone, because whoever's guilty will always complain, who's lost his case or who's convicted in criminal proceedings, even if he's the most guilty of the globe. He was set up in judgment. There's something that's an objective problem. Let's put aside that psychological problem that's in our heads. Let's see what's objective. We objectively have a very confusing situation in the largest political cases. Our biggest criminals in this country decide who's honest, who's the killer. You're still allowing it. We've got a lot of unsolved cases, cases being handled for 5, 10 and 15 years, so they don't get solved. They're objective problems. That's what you can't understand, as you can't understand, that those who were in the Supreme Court of Justice, and then went to the lawyers, today have whatever effect you want on reducing the sentence, returning to first-degree decision-making that doesn't suit their clients, and then they charge the paper to their clients and they can get all the judgments they want. That's true. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Yeah, you know I'm right. That is what needs to be changed, and they do not need training. Here's an example of this Djoincic, whom they arrested, talking. That was at the time – Mom Iboljak the biggest drug dealer and I don't know what in the Balkans. You forgot that story. Has anyone heard anything about Mama Iboyka now? It doesn't exist. She's gone. From a dangerous woman turned out to be a sad old woman who had nothing to do with anything. Was that so, Mr. Minister? Yes, it is. Except that Djura became the one who will decide who is the criminal and who is the honest man in Serbia, Djura Mutavi. In such a Serbia, unfortunately, we live today. I gave you this example, and the example is countless, until today, Mr. Minister, you have an example that I cannot understand. I have one thing I don't know how anyone's gonna answer. The one caught in his apartment, therefore, and the flagrants with 100,000 euros, "with a suitcase", as my friends from southern Serbia would say, caught with a suitcase in his apartment, received a one-month detention by the investigating judge. You have ordered one month's detention, when I say you don't mean yourself, but someone in power has certainly ordered the investigating judges to have everyone detained, or detained in custody in action to arrest Mladic's flocks, or those who have ever seen a young general, or I don't know what, have to determine one month's detention. Now I'm asking you who is this investigative judge who determines one month's detention, and there are three possible reasons, if I'm not mistaken, for determining detention. These are: the possibility of influence on witnesses, as number one, the possibility of repeating the crime, as number two and the possibility of escape, as number three. Now I ask you to explain to me – why did the brother and sister who were guilty of wearing a bowl of cabbage or a plate of beans to General Mladic, five or six years ago or at any time, receive one month's detention, why? What, so we don't wear it again? Well, I guess you're following them. What's this about? So they don't run out of the country? So how can I? So they don't affect the witnesses? What witness, General Mladic, to whom? Give me some rational explanation. But they got a political warrant. Is that the training someone's talking about? But that's why, after one month of detention, this "coffer" was released, and that "coffer" became, what it became -- the director of the banking sector or the banking sector, I have no idea. One of the highest officials in this country, because they caught him with a little suitcase, and if he was a little bigger, he'd be governor and minister, whatever you want. I ask now what are the arches, what are the criteria, I ask by what, how could it? Now you convince me, to convince anyone in this room that these investigative judges who have been holding these people in custody have made a decision by conscience, in accordance with the law – you will not convince me, you will absolutely convince no one, and neither do you, and no one in this room believes that they deserve it. Then after your brother and sister were arrested by your mother, you sent her into custody because five or six years ago, one night, he spent the night with the general. So these are the problems we're facing today, but I don't think anyone in power will react to that. I asked you once, Mr. Minister – when he is not a power of attorney, I don't think he represents anyone, I don't think he's a lawyer, what is he doing and what is he doing about Natasa Kandic giving a statement about individual court proceedings? Who is she and who are these people who dare to say that the judiciary has done good or bad? Who's Sam Nazaro to say he's satisfied with some verdict? It was that flower or something. I have no idea if a man did anything or not, I'm not familiar with the case at all. I ask you who he is, I have no right to say whether I'm satisfied or dissatisfied, no one has a right. I'm asking you who these people are that they're saying they're satisfied with a verdict or not. Who are these people, Mr. Minister? Let's explain to the citizens of Serbia that no one has the right to do this. So we have media violence in Serbia over the judiciary. Why aren't we talking about this problem here? Do you put up with the pressures of this anti-Serbian television every day on what verdicts must be made for them to be satisfied? Is that right, Mr. Minister, is that true? Well, the truth is, Mr. Minister, it's true, but neither you nor anyone else can say it. Listen, they'll decide what the verdict will be. They know better than the judge. B92 became both a judge, and a prosecutor, and a Supreme Court, and whatever you want, they became. By what criteria, where is it, in which country on the globe has it? Our judge must be strong as a judge, if you will, as in the strongest countries in the world, as an American judge who dropped a Swiss government plane because of some permit that wasn't issued 10 years ago or I don't know what. The judge has to be a man of integrity, he has to be honest, means away from a yellow thief's company, the judge has to be responsible, serious, tough, fair, he has to be a strong man, the man who makes the hardest and most serious decisions, but the man everyone's gonna respect, not B92 salts his mind about what judgment he's gonna make. Listen, they're gonna tell me, they're gonna run my campaign whether they're satisfied or not. As soon as they are satisfied with a verdict, I know that the verdict under political order was made. As soon as they're unhappy with the verdict, I know that that verdict is just, whatever it is, I don't have any at all at this point in my mind. What do they have to be interested in the verdict, what are they? When are we going to end this, when is someone going to say it in public? Let's have a public debate. Who are they to comment on such behavior in any way? That time began in 2001, Mr. Minister. Remember, that's the time you said we shouldn't cooperate with China because we got drugs from China that only small people use, because the Chinese are small compared to us. I didn't say you said that. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. You're very jealous, Mr. Radovic. I'll be done soon. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradich. Do you remember that? The most powerful medicine in the world, along with American, Russian and German, for the most powerful medicine they say – these are medicines for small people. Then they wonder that China won't give us jobs, that people won't invest in this country and that they won't talk seriously. There, now they're building 90 civilian and military airports, two billion jobs each; if two of our companies got two airports to work, they'd save Serbia. He can't, because they say DOS is making medicine for little people; so we don't like their money, do we, or do we not know what it is? That's why the verdicts will be satisfied, or not, Natasa Kandic and I don't know who. Where you find all these big portfolios and these powerful prosecutors that I don't know what to say every day, and what no other Serb head has been driven out into the clearing, and I see they're thirsty when it comes to Serbs. Where is that Vladimir Vukcevic, also an agent, like that Zoran Stankovic, because some people think I'm afraid to say it. Yeah, I know that. He's also an agent who shows up, and he's stuck, so he says he's gonna arrest the pigeon writers. How many pigeons he arrested, since I saw the bee arrested by a large swarm; I hear he's accusing them of a joint criminal enterprise, a lot of them in one place, a lot of them gathered in the hive. How many pigeons did he charge? I think the citizens of Serbia are full of empty stories and promises that mean nothing. Yes, it is. They've had enough of your stories. Your stories are over their heads. And how, even when you talk and when you don't talk, and when you talk in vain, because I don't know what you're going to do and how you're going to train judges, because that's how you underestimate the highest number of judges who are honorable, responsible, able and in accordance with the law to do their job. To be clear, judges respect and enforce the law, it's their job, and it's not their job to follow and listen to and whose political orders to carry out, they don't need training, they usually do it on the phone. They should not listen because the judge must be stronger than both the minister and each in the executive bodies of the government, than anyone in the legislative authority or any other authority. Now, that's the job of the judge, and that's why we have to respect the judges, not to humiliate them, not to underestimate them, but to do everything in our power to make these people live better, to have all the working conditions and to allow them to be as far away from the "yellow company", because that's the first condition, it's condio son qua non that the courts will work fairly and comply with the law to do the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26816	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Minister Stojkovic, then Professor Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26817	If we agree with the previous speaker in some things, in my opinion very important, then don't call the minister to comment on the cases. I'm the one who'll never comment on the case, just because we let the courts do their job. Any kind of comment I make, positive or negative, there's no dispute, but there's influence. You noticed that in the new Code of Criminal Procedure. We have introduced the obligation to punish all those who, even through the press, can, by their inexplicable and incorrect writing, influence the process. That's why we introduced one of the obligations, and that's a hell of a punishment not just for those participants who, for example, sit in a closed trial there, and then go out and tell all kinds of stories. That's why we introduced such provisions. As far as this minister is concerned, you are well aware that I have made a public statement – I will always try, and will not allow criminal charges to be filed through the press, to be conducted, to bring judgments and to declare complaints. There were words, if you remember, about Pahomey. I told the public that it had to get in the way and leave the courts to make the decision. No one has jurisdiction in this country, as there have been cases, and there you are right, that some minors, through the newspaper, file criminal charges, lead proceedings, bring judgments. That's where I fully agree with you, and it has to get in the way. That's why we introduced these provisions so that some can go and punish themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26818	Ambassador Simonovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26819	Far from underestimating the court, judges or prosecutors, I just think, I claim and I know, and that's true, that anyone who deals with any profession must be educated throughout the entire working century in various ways, even through this law. As for empty stories, if anyone else in Serbia is watching these transmissions, he sees who's talking empty here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26820	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, replica. Please point out next time. [[Velimir Simonovic, from the place: This was a replica.]] Now the word is Mr. Wolfie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26821	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Simonovic, I don't understand what's wrong with you. I don't know what bothered you about what we talked about, especially because, as you saw, Mr. Stojkovic and most of what we talked about agreed. I have to admit, they're never emptying, if you like, a replica or a speech I haven't heard. I will use this time, until these three minutes that I have the right to do according to the Rules of Procedure, not to further answer you, since I have nothing to answer, to point out that in Serbia not only are procedures being conducted, but also to point out what is being done in Serbia and why there are specially trained teams and what they do. You see, at a time when we are working in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you, except that the stories are empty and the benches are completely empty, Mr Simonovic, and there are again more MPs of the SRS, two or three times, than all MPs of the government together from all parties in power and those who support you, so let Serbian citizens see it too... So, at that time while someone's doing something somewhere, there are others who'll just be dealing with counterfeits and inventions in the worst ways possible. I've already pointed out one of these from this pay phone, but I've noticed that representatives of the so-called. The yellow company doesn't stop making up, doing insinuations, forgeries, or, to be fair, lies. Namely, the NIN published in the last issue, I am saying this because of the citizens, although I do know that a large number of people read in Serbia, in a text by Ruza Cirkovic, as I met on a Belgrade raft with Nikitaovic and Mladjan Dinkic. The truth is, I've never seen myself with Mladjan Dinkic in my life outside the National Assembly building. It wouldn't be a problem if I did, but I never did. At no official meeting, at any informal meeting, I never saw him anywhere outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building, except in one TV duel where I think I convincingly beat him on TV Studio B. So, this kind of lie, fiction, the insinuation that comes is totally amazing. Then it is used by this policeman in an announcement, so he was never an honorable policeman, like most of them, the one who longs to replace Jocic, as he is called – Sutanovac, or I don't know his name. He says, "We will not, for the sake of the agreement of the rafts which have been reached." Look at the inventions they're used to. Why is that used? Because they can't explain to Serbian citizens where they found 75,000 dinar ficuses. They cannot explain to the citizens of Serbia how much money anyone has received from the theft in Novi Popovac. Because they can't explain to Serbian citizens how much money someone got from the theft in Germany, that their rails are too close and that trams would crash in two opposite directions. I don't know if you know that. Work extended for another three months, and more expensive for another 150 million. Who's taking that money? Who takes that from the citizens of Serbia? If he were Bogdanovic, he was big, but he's a small and small criminal compared to these others. You should know that right away. He's a little baby for these top players of theirs. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. It's not right, it's a big deal and a big crime. I only hope that you will no longer help them in the City Assembly to rob citizens of Belgrade, to take everything from them. As I can see, you've come upon the construction of bridges around Belgrade, you don't know which bridge before, whether the one over the Danube or the one over the Sava. You don't know where the subway is getting any more progress, whether it's in Zemun, on Chukarica or on Stardust. No, it's a miracle of these strategic projects being built around Belgrade. A miracle unseen. In Serbia, I don't want to talk. It's just where they got something to rob, and it's the only thing they did, and everything else is for a living head and nothing. One thing to see, because something is really happening that we all have to think about (I am finishing, Mr. Chairman), to think here and in the National Assembly, and especially the Government should think about how and in what way to help central Serbia first, but also other parts of Serbia, not only in Belgrade, because if we have a production of 2.7 million tonnes of cement, 2 million tons of it ends in Belgrade, then you can see why we have a population depopulation in the rest of Serbia and why we have growing problems with both rural households and elsewhere. I ask you to pass on to the representatives of the authorities to think about it, as well as that there will be no committee of the Serbian Parliament if you accept the 17th item of the agenda, or such a programme council by ignoring the SRS, or by not giving it two MPs in the RTS programme council, and then conclude yourself what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26822	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26823	For the sake of the public, I must begin by saying that every amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party to this bill contains a detailed explanation of why the amendment is submitted. Given that at the beginning of this debate there is no basic reason why we have submitted a large number of amendments, I will introduce that, say. You see, the constitutional basis for this bill has been found by the Government in Article 72 paragraph 1 point 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the organisation, jurisdiction and work of the republican authorities. I must say, this bill does not treat any republican authorities. No republican body is subject to this law. Then, pursuant to Article 95. The Constitution protects the freedoms and rights of citizens. This may be the basis for the law on the regulation of courts and on the law on judges, but it can't be the basis for such a bill. Then, Article 103(1). The constitution, under which the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators and other laws provided for, can be the constitutional basis for public prosecutor's law, but cannot for such a bill. Finally, as a constitutional basis, Article 16. Constitutional charters, under which ratified international agreements and widely accepted rules of international law have primate over Serbia-Montenegro's law and the law of the Member States. I must say, in addition to the fact that this provision has been rewritten, no international act has been listed that binds us. Some recommendations have been made, but these recommendations do not oblige even members of the Council of Europe, nor EU members. Just to remind you, according to one recommendation, the court in Germany continues to run the register of companies, although the recommendation says that some other administrative bodies should do so. The Netherlands accepted that recommendation. The recommendation is a recommendation and has no binding force and cannot be treated as an international source of law. So there is no constitutional basis for such a law. Now let's see what this law is trying to do? It is in the very name, it is a bill on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants. If a law is passed on the training of civil servants, officials, then we probably need a law on the training of civil servants, a law on the training of the president of the National Assembly, a law on the training of MPs, a law on the training of the Prime Minister, a law on the training of the President of the Republic, and so I could be in an endless position. These areas are not covered by laws that prescribe that someone should be trained to act as president of the National Assembly. The next argument that is used here, and has contact with the Constitution, is to say – we want to regulate this area with a special law, and then it is said, this area is now regulated, but the Law on Courts, the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecution. Evidence of this is in the transitional and final provisions, where it is said that on the day of entry into force of this law, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia ceases to determine and prescribe the type and manner of professional training of judges. We already have the Law on Court Order, then the Law on Judges, which is Article 17. The draft law also states in the same article's position the relevant provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Law where the republican public prosecutor is competent to regulate the way prosecutors are trained. Why am I pointing this out? I point out that nothing is epochal in the concept that judges should be trained. We already have that. If it's said that we have to settle this with a special law, then I can conclude that in existing laws, and I listed these three, these provisions were unconstitutional. It is not until this law is passed that judges and prosecutors are legally trained. Before this law, everything was illegal training. It's very problematic, so there's no constitutional basis, it's wanted to push this through. Why? Because it fits into a strategy and this strategy is being imposed as the first point in the form of a decision, which also does not have a constitutional basis and we discussed it in principle. Now he's pushing. Everything that comes from that strategy has been converted into bill proposals and we now have four, five, six draft laws that are adopted simultaneously with the strategy. Someone knew when he was working on a strategy that would be accepted immediately, and the same day they voted on the strategy and everything else. Why? Because he knew that the strategy would not be changed, and the strategy offers solutions that are contrary to the existing Constitution, and even in many places, the strategy states that the Constitution has given some frameworks that can no longer be respected if the judiciary wants to be regulated. Then you're going to have a simple majority in the form of a decision to virtually alter the Constitution that requires a two-thirds majority. You will constantly refer to that decision on the strategy you wrote in your explanation that the maltene is unconstitutional. What does Article 4 of this bill regulate? Right and obligation to make a decision. Before I say anything concrete about this article, I have to remind you, probably 30% of the judges and prosecutors, according to the years of their employment, were at those posts during the last few years of the Joint Labour Act. They may even have finished while the law was in force, and they must have known the provisions of that law and the principles on which the law was built when they passed the judicial exam. In the meantime, that law fell off. The Company Act has come. He had two or three variants and several changes and has been in force for two years. Does anyone think a judge needs any special training to master and apply this? It's not necessary. Absolutely no training required. In order to make this more clear (there are many theories and says – theoretical knowledge is needed by a judge, etc.), I will give you an example with electronic engineers: the college graduate 25 years ago did not have the opportunity to learn what students learn from electronics today. There was no PC at the time, and any electronics engineer with 30 years of work experience today can very competently and professionally tell you about PCs, programs, etc. I'm saying this because, after all the basic theoretical knowledge he's acquired in college, during his work and dealing with the problem of new technology, I've simply educated techniques. He had to be educated, it's his duty. The judge also has a working obligation to educate himself. In what way? Follow the change of rules. Why? It needs to be applied. But what is devastating is what the minister here said coldly – in his visits to certain courts he concluded that some judges and did not know that a year ago a law was changed. After that finding, the only question that can be asked to him is: why did you not initiate a procedure to get rid of that judge? There's no other question. And to question the President of the Supreme Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor – what did you do by applying the provisions of these laws that I had just stated to train prosecutors and judges? You didn't organize counseling, some symposium, you didn't make a brochure, you didn't give any interpretations, etc. You are responsible for making it impossible to educate, prepare and perfect those who need to apply the regulations. However, these questions are not answered here, but they say – we will solve this problem by making some judicial centre, and we must because we have received the money. You will see that, in essence, this law is pushed by force, quickly pushing, to justify some of the funds by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It was the means that judges could spend and provide training, but if they tell the public – we have a special law that prescribes that these funds will be spent and that training will be done, then it only seems much more serious, but there is no guarantee that the training will be completed quality and proper. This way someone is amnesty for spent funds. Who's pushing this concept? The Society of Judges. There are many judges who have been kicked out of court several times, but they have been expelled from court both during the international government and during the most democratic government. Like, "Beautiful Karamarkovic." Bosko Ristic came here during "Sablje", who was an MP remembers, said from this pay phone that the Supreme Court president would have to resign. Within three minutes, they read to us that she resigned. So she was resolved during the red and black coalition, was resolved during the democratic coalition. Is there a problem with those coalitions or maybe in them? Zoran Ivosevic retired, otherwise he was chief co-ordinator at the Supreme Court. He needs to have a gig somewhere, transfer his skills. Gordana Mihailovic, who did not pass for the judge, and others, we will get to those members, and we will be very specific about what kind of prank it is. Just to remind you, when voting on this bill, keep in mind one principle that exists: The Society of Judges, Lawyers and Individual Judges; the gig where additional funds are to be earned, to create some form that would meet some conditions, and training and education have nothing to do with it. What's the alternative to this, we'll do it on the second amendment. It exists in our case-law and in some of the things that happened and worked in this country when the judiciary was pretty normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26824	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26825	To pick up where I left off, because that makes one whole. Article 4 spoke of the rights and obligations of training, so it was voluntary, and at one point even mandatory. This is about users of the right: "The users of initial training are judges and prosecutorial assistants and holders of judicial duties that were first elected. Permanent training users are holders of judicial duties. "So, public prosecutors and judges have constant training, and the initials have judicial and prosecutorial assistants and judges who have been elected and have not passed the training. Later, you will see in the members, where it simply devalues the judge's notion, because his status depends on whether he has completed his training, not on the quality of the judgment he is doing and what he does. There's one thing that's going through here, and she deserves special attention. If it is worked out by the end through the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, then it can be counted on the support of the SRS, which is the idea that before someone is elected as judge, prosecutor or deputy prosecutor, the guarantees of his profession and ability be the time he spent in a court or prosecutor's office in a working relationship. This means that the high priority in the elections in this assembly should be those personnel coming from both the court and the prosecution. Why? For the past five or six years, it has been so obvious that the secretary of the cooperative or the secretary of the firm, and the owner of the firm is the father, the one who set up some work, confirms that he passed the judicial exam at the time of Zivkovic and Djindjic's government not only was elected here for the judge, but also for the president of the court, and it is about people who only saw the court on the postcard or who passed by the court for some time. I don't think anyone can deny me, especially those who are members of the Justice Committee. We had a chance there in 30 cases to find out, since some of these were proposed to advance for the district court judges, and then we saw how they got into the municipal court, so we saw... Here's just one example: one of the presidents of the courts, in Valjevo, you remember your colleagues, you saw for yourself that without any kind of work, he was elected president of the municipal court, after competing for the district court judge, and when a book was opened to see what it was and how a man had no idea, he knew nothing, and he led the court. I know that this idea was accepted by the Justice Committee and I know that the Ministry... And also the President of the Supreme Court has held several meetings of the Justice Committee and, simply, that idea is normal. If you put a man on the side, choose him as a judge, and, of course, he meets the conditions regarding internships and exams, so while he masteres where the office is, what is the office, as the record dictates, it takes some time. It's no big deal, and every normal man will learn that in 15 days, but it's more security when at that post, the judge or prosecutor is elected by a man who's been in court and prosecutor's office for several years and knows all these communications as the case goes, knows where to address the views of court practice, etc. There's constant training in court. It used to exist, and now maybe it doesn't exist, probably doesn't exist. There is no minister, and I wanted to draw attention to one subject, so that the case should be taken from the archives and shown to those attending training not to be tried. I've got a dozen more examples, I've decided to clean the drawer in the table, all the controversial cases to give to the minister to pass to the justice center, so on these cases let the judges and prosecutors, and they're all obviously illegal, the verdicts are obviously illegal. There's no need to turn the law around, watch which member he's in. It's all clear. It's true, the judge is behind the case and that lawyer behind this case is that judge and this lawyer. It's clear, so let them answer how that training is going to work. What we lack as a constant training of all judges and all prosecutors is a return of reputation to judicial practice. I have repeatedly advocated on the Committee on Justice that whether a judge or prosecutor respects the legal views of judicial practice should value his independence and independence. What does that mean? Today we have a situation that because of the banal reasons and elementary ignorance the verdicts fall, and that is what Mr Stojkovic said, 60 and a few percent of the cases, because the judge did not want to go to court practice and to get acquainted with the position that regulates the matter. So, the judge insists on something that he has twisted in his head that he is applying the law, hiding behind independence and independence, and on this issue which he is pushing is a 35-year-old busy attitude that has been spinning so many years ago, the district court as second-degreed under official duty follows and precisely knows which provisions are being violated in the first degree judgment, whether the procedure has been injured etc. A judge like that doesn't need any judgment. How to train him when he did not want to take the book on the basis of which he passed the judicial exam; these are attitudes that exist for 35 years, please. The departments of case law should be strengthened in all courts. Which is why – that when a judge makes a decision, the decision goes to court practice and if there are any obvious mistakes, fails, that the judge warns what is all contrary to the views of the caselaw, so let it be 30 years ago; so if the judge does not change his decision in that sense, then he assumes responsibility if, for that reason, the judgment is abolished before the second-degree court, because he proved by his tenacity that he is not professional, which is one of the reasons for its resolution. It's the best judge training, believe me. There's no better training than that. More judges will learn that way than if he came to the justice center to spend some time looking at some lawyers as lecturers. In this concept, as you have imagined, judges and prosecutors, judges and deputies of public prosecutors, judges and prosecutors were placed in the same rank, but it must be known, yesterday we talked about the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the prosecutor, by your concept, is forging a system of charges, only an equal party with the opposite side of the court. How does one party who is to take part in the court proceedings work together with judges? Then let's train the defenders about the same cost, and even the defendants who defend themselves, to let them go to the justice center for three months to learn what their rights and obligations are. That's how it works out by the Constitution and by the law. The prosecutor is an equal party with the defendant. Who's going to teach the defendant? Why I don't get this at all. Is it possible that it's so much pressure that someone has to justify these funds? How's he gonna justify it? He will draw the Assembly, so says the Assembly has passed the law, and then one of those who has been counting, like this Tanja Miscevic, I don't know if she's resigned, because she's been spinning the same story for a year at the Association Office, hitting some new terms, stabilisation, association, associations, and everything there is talking, and she's just rattling out – the law has been passed, well, that's what we've done, and that's what we've done. And what We have fulfilled, according to whom We have fulfilled? Let us fill something out for ourselves, let us do something for us, and don't fill it according to Tanja Miscevic and her list, because her list is wrong, forget the EU, they won't let you or us, you'll see it; and what she said to Kostunica, she said open a few days ago -- what kind of Serbia, what EU, we don't know what we're going to do with the EU, and now we need Serbs to come to us, just work. You just say it, it suits us, because all citizens know there's nothing out of it. You're wasting your empty ammo on those things. Let us do something for us, that we may have just and legal action. In that sense, we went out with a completely different concept. So we offer a solution to how this training will be cheaper and safer and more stable and legal. Under this law, you will have unconstitutional training. Only legal spending of funds is possible. I'll tell you how this idea of training was created. There was a woman judge who knew four languages, she was good at languages, but she's not good at right, she can translate, she translated those standards, and they said, we can take money for training, because they want to give. How are we gonna get the training money? Let's take it this way. So, as Mladjan Dinkic; he has all subordinated to money from abroad, since he is hungry for his budget and many others are hungry, there is nowhere to be provided, they can only be provided abroad; they want to give money under certain conditions, these ours meet all the conditions, so, as far as Junior is concerned, he would sell both Djerdap, and Danube and Baja Basta, they would sell everything just to get money from abroad. What will be the consequences he doesn't care, he knows he has limited duration; as he said the other day, it lasts until September. And by September he's watching if he can do anything, so let's get the money. Just like Pitic, like Djelic. You see, now they run two banks and banks sponsor the shows they're taking part in to forget what they've been doing here. They won't forget it, every day I'll remind that Pitic, who came here three months later to take an oath; he worked as a minister for three months and didn't take an oath. He was a Mr. Dollar, he was just like Dinkic in the numbers of stories, here two million, there three million, five million, so what's it gonna be, no matter, two million, three million, etc. They know that misery is in Serbia, so as soon as they're told money comes from abroad, everyone says we'll do anything but make sure the money comes. The same concept is now with the judiciary. Well, without money, the U.S. Embassy's legal advisor controls everything that's going on in our justice system. Make sure it doesn't happen: they've gone through training, so they don't know again, so we have to change them. Change them, especially those who don't want to know, but there's no minister to give him this list.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26826	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the bill itself, the idea of the motion itself is not only strange, but also insane, because this matter is already regulated by certain legal regulations, which is the Law on the selection of holders of judicial functions. In order for someone to be able to handle certain judicial functions, they must meet certain conditions, which is that they have completed a law school, a certain working experience in the affairs of judicial authorities, a professional examination passed, and with these conditions they get the right to run for justice. Now we have a law that needs to regulate the training of legal holders. So, colleges, where lecturers are scientists from several areas, with narrow speciality, specialization, are not sufficiently professional and trained, do not have the correct criteria for whether anyone knows the matter in the field of law, so now some authority will decide who needs to go to training, what kind of training, what is its problem, and whether it has acquired the conditions to perform some of the judicial functions. The promoter, likely in a bid to justify the ineffectiveness of the domestic judiciary, is trying with one such bill to cloud the eyes of Serbian citizens. It is not a problem if the judges are sufficiently professional and capable, I believe they are, but in the fact that certain pressures are being exerted on the judges and on the holders of judicial functions. Pressure is being put on by the executive, pressure from various media. I would just like to remind this assembly that during 2004, a procedure was launched to resolve the President of the Trade Court of Kljajevic. He entered the assembly procedure, agreed to continue the procedure, and then suddenly the assembly majority decided to remain the holder of the judicial post, so that after a year and a half, the same Kljajevic would be arrested. Who protected him then? At the time, the Democratic Party was carried by the victory of Boris Tadic as president of the Republic, was Kljajevic's favorite, as such you should not have resolved it. Now that you've had a little fight, when DS is still trying to influence through various coalitions, etc., to show the efficiency of the state, Kljajevic is simply sacrificed. Now a simple question – could one such training, as planned by this bill, prevent this? You certainly couldn't. So it's not a problem that our judges are unprofessional. The various sublaws that are governed by judges receive an assessment, and the assessment is based on what time the case ends, how many judgments have been passed, how many annulled, how many modified. It is the best way to see the professional map of a judge, like the judge, and the best way for him to perfect himself in his own field, because that's why he was paid and judged; it is also a certain threat that if he does not rule under the law he can also be relieved of these judicial functions. Let the judge, prosecutor or judicial assistant constantly follow the laws that are being passed and which are essential for the performance of their work, keep an eye on the legal practice established by the Supreme Court of Serbia, and therefore they will also be good judges, on one condition – if they are fair. With this bill of law, we will not root out any dishonesty or corruption in the judiciary. So the only way that happens is for the High Justice Council to launch an initiative to get rid of such judges. What situation do we have when it comes to resolutions and appointments by the High Council of Justice? At the very least, their policy is strange, and they're the ones who need to take care of the application of this law. In the middle of last year, the Committee on Justice and Administration discussed the proposals of the High Council of Justice for the appointment of certain persons to judicial functions, the presidents of courts, both municipal, district, trade, and public prosecutorial functions, etc. We had a situation where their proposals and their candidates were challenged by convincing arguments at the session of the Justice Committee. Even the Committee made decisions not to give certain candidates any support. Since it was rather sensitive issues and the very personality of the candidates, there was a gentlemanly, silent decision that if a candidate's committee did not accept to do so, without some big debate, because the Committee sessions were available to the public without this pay phone being misused for some possible personal promotions. What did the National Assembly of the High Council of Justice experience then? We have experienced canonda that the Assembly is not discussing whether their candidates are professional, but whether they are politically similar, even though their representative was at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Management, aware of the shortcomings of their proposals. We had even one correspondence where the High Council of Justice put pressure on the MPs and the National Assembly, again through which the media – through the media that is extremely fond of the Democratic Party. I am now asking the question – all this conglomerate containing the High Council of Justice, whether it is in their interest to propose to the National Assembly a political similar, regardless of their professional equipment, qualifications, working biography, or to propose to the holders of judicial functions of persons who can do this job fairly. Given the experience of last year, I think the High Council of Justice has other criteria, other than expertise, knowledge and honesty, for the holders of judicial functions. That's why we have a problem with judicial reform. That's why we have a problem with how this law is going to be implemented in practice. Will the High Council of Justice protect its favorites from discharge, and some certification that a judge has completed training, that he has mastered this training, etc., to prevent certain judges from performing their judicial duty? Will the judges be evaluated or not in that training, and will their assessment be a criterion for their further progress in the ministry? Will the MPs, on the basis of such recommendations of the High Council of Justice, decide whether someone meets the requirements or not? My proposal is for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister to withdraw a bill like this from the procedure. You, Mr. Minister, can do this, criteria – other than those envisaged by law, you have the opportunity to do so by sublegal acts – when simply a certain judge does not fulfil the conditions to carry out his duty, based on how long it takes him to complete a specific case, based on the number of confirmed, annulled, amended judgments, based on those judgments which may be a material breach of proceedings, whether it is a litigation, criminal proceedings, etc. Set up these criteria, and that way you'll get the judges to do their job in a good way. Otherwise, with one such decision, you won't get better judges, nor will judicial reform bring them to life. In addition, significant funds are constantly being spent in municipal and district courts and the Ministry of Justice organised certain seminars attended by the presidents of the courts, certain judges, etc., and even some volunteer to go abroad to the burden of the body in which they work. Here you can perfect them, and the best way to perfect them is to be aware that their chosen position is not guaranteed for life, or until retirement, but is the only guarantee that they do their job in quality and professional terms. In order to do quality and professional work, they will have to learn a little more while doing the work of judges themselves, not through one such training which, in any case, I am sure, will not give more important results in judicial reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26828	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26829	Article 8 has the title: Users of initial training - holders of judicial duties. "The users of initial training are holders of judicial duties that were first elected and were not users of the initial training referred to in Article 6(1) of this Act. "This is how, if we were to peopleally simplify it: if by any chance we were to take Stevan Lilić, it is that he is a plagiarist, but he is a professor at law school, if by any chance he were to be elected now for the Judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, he would have to go to training. Well, that's how it's written. Since he was first elected and failed initial training, he would have had to go to training. He's supposed to go to college, you know, since you know it's the worst strain, it's plagiarizers. Since his expertise is a disaster, if I didn't tell you about Greece where he's going to some NGO conference, of course, spits on his people and on his country, I'm sure no one would ever choose him as a judge of any court. It's this great illogicality in that legal-technical sense. However, we have this concept problem. We disagree with the concept you proposed for training judges and assistants and deputy prosecutors, etc. What else is characteristic of this member? You see, if someone was elected judge in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, and didn't pass before the initial training election, by the fact that he was elected judge, he goes to training and court, because otherwise you can't pay him a salary, he has to make that salary somewhere. So, not finishing his training is no obstacle to him, and it's rightly not a distraction, because completed training is not a condition for choice. The conditions for choice are prescribed by the Law on Judges, and there as a condition, in addition to a judicial examination, years of work, expertise, etc., there is no mandatory training, that has passed mandatory training, which means that he can judge and go to training. Now, there's a judge's assistant in the next office who's finished training and hasn't been elected judge. Absolutely the law doesn't make sense. I'm not going to comment on how you got the number of potential users. You have reached the number of potential users, he says, in line with the planned number of court and prosecutorial posts. It's an impossible category. Someone is planning at the beginning of the year how many free judges he'll be, etc. places and accordingly plans how many will go to training, and only afterwards are the names, last names and areas of the court, etc., and even the procedure is planned to be conducted in relation to the judge's assistant - the president of the court. The judge may object why the president of the court didn't propose that he go to training. It's an absurd law, but it's probably the task of justifying money and putting a line there and putting it down -- we took this off the agenda, we covered everything with laws; how it's going to be in practice, so now, we're not in charge of how it's going to be in practice. It's about that reson that's in there. There's nothing from this decision, which would say "tether the cat to the tail." Someone's probably gonna fill their pockets with money, like those in the Mediation Center, you know. It's the second court where those cobayages settle, we sued, we joked, let's make up. It's our justice system now, and of course there's room for everything and everything. Now, I'm absolutely sure Mr. Stojkovic doesn't listen, that some judges don't qualify to go to initial training. Here, Mr Stojkovic, are there any Supreme Court judges appearing at your judicial centre as lecturers? For example, Trifunović Predrag, Grubić Mirjana, Popović Vesna, Nikolic Miomir, Stanojevic Jasminka, did you plan to be lecturers? They're Supreme Court judges. They probably have a lot of internships. Are they going to be lecturers or are they going to be trained? According to some provisions, they may be lecturers. They could go to that justice center... You probably know by the names of these people, Trifunović Predrag, Grubic Mirjana, I don't know any, but I know the subject. You see, they reached a verdict on 17 November 2005 that passed the review, the number of cases, you can write down, if I'm lying, I don't suppose the case is lying: the review number 2388/05, the judgments of the District Court in Nis, GZ 80/05 of 31 January 2005 and the judgment of the Municipal Court in Nis No. P 1263/2004 of 7.9.2004, are amended, it's a 13-year dispute. This is the third time Vladimir Domazette's audit has been adopted. Why am I telling you this, Mr. Minister? Because a few months ago, I showed you this stuff, and, look, I was hunting that object. A few months ago, I knew that the review would be so adopted that the verdicts changed, not to be abolished and to return to retrial, it was done twice. I knew it infallibly. Maybe you don't remember, at a meeting of the Justice Committee, I told you what was going to happen, I mentioned Domazette and his staff with the judges of the Supreme Court. Although, there's little Bosko, the one who doesn't come, he's his courier for these things. They're holding your judiciary. Then I'll give you the paper I got, and you got it, maybe you didn't read it, where they keep you informed of some things from the Sviliant, and about Gilas, what he's doing there. A person's independence and independence interprets that anyone can do anything with courts and prosecutors. If there's anything to choose from, let's find one to fly and press the courts and prosecutors. Let the minister keep it under his control. At least we'll haunt one. I know you won't, but at least one. This is unsustainable. The presidents of municipalities, district chiefs, MPs, some who are in the area of law enforcement, etc. Then the presidents of the district and municipal boards set off, and the private combinations with the lawyers, the private combinations with the mafia, the private, the private, the private, and, as you can see, there's no constitution, no law. How can you shape this personal potential as judges and prosecutors with such raw materials and train? That's impossible. How are you going to get an immoral person to apply the law? You can only from an immoral person, when you train her, to do something more dangerous, like that kid at 35 years old, which is in the High Court of Commerce, and he even wanted to be the president of the High Court of Commerce. He came from the Shop, Belgrade, Kljajevic sent him, and I think I may have misnamed him. At the age of 35, young, advanced, everyone praises him, but in all combinations, he came to fill the bigger one that should finish the jobs Kljajevic missed here. He's a guarantee it'll end. You arrested these guys, but you didn't arrest him. He's a member of this joint criminal enterprise. Remember, and I told you that, Mr. Minister, from this pay phone publicly. They're crying at me, the newspaper texts are beautiful to my door, and they're throwing darts at me, because they hate me, but if they hate me, my job is this. How do you train? That's impossible. It's impossible to train. It's impossible to train, it, Minister, can only be expelled from the judiciary. There's no other way. Remember, there's no other way. Secure control, check the subject. In this country, no judge has ever been held responsible for a felony of law violations by judges. As no doctor answered that he was unconscious, these are rare examples, they had no connection with the doctor. I don't know about cases at the judge's. I ran the procedure three times, the prosecutor wouldn't hear. Why? He's on official duty. He won't even let me appear as damaged. He immediately responded to the council from Article 24, no, no, no, no, and close. Here, Danko Lausevic; there is no clearer example of a conscious, deliberate violation of the law. It doesn't exist. Stands, the prosecutor ordered another prosecution, not the one he's handling in front of Fifth, but the second, dead case. Danko still treats his teeth and he communicates with his wife during the debate: I'm here, doll, my tooth hurts, etc. That's your judge. How can you train him to be a judge who will work in accordance with the law? That's impossible. That, dear minister, just run the procedure for resolution and you won't make a mistake, absolutely you won't make a mistake. I'm giving you this with this basic data to exercise some control in accordance with your powers, and if by your control you find that in this case the Supreme Court judge has done everything in accordance with the law, I, Mr Stojkovic, ask you to give this to the people at the new judicial centre to teach judges and prosecutors on the basis of this case not to be tried. Here's the most basic data. It's a 1992 dispute. Three times Domazet's been auditing and he's always done it. He didn't make it in front of the county, in front of the county, but he's done his job in front of the Supreme. He's got a good communication channel. You, Mr. Minister, to provide a photocopy of that transfer, I have a few more cases to train future judges, judges and prosecutors not to work. In this case, you have a billion evidence of a conscious, deliberate and criminal violation of the law by an organized group, and of course at the head of that group is Domazette and one of those who was a reporter. You know it. They probably don't want to check on a colleague, but they said, well, fellow, when you've processed the subject, so be it, we know how it works. Try harder, you won't do anything wrong. You'll just make sure you know what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26830	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26831	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 9 provides for the obligations of users of training. It is foreseen that the user of initial training, and in doing so, the holder of the judicial duty, if he requests a personal request to be relieved of judicial duties, must compensate for the actual costs of initial training. In general, the whole system of training provided for by this bill is not happily proposed and is not a solution for the judiciary, especially if the judiciary is to be fully independent and as independent as possible from other branches of government, primarily executive and legislative authorities. It's quite said here whether this training is necessary or not, but here a fundamental question of political opportunity of judicial officials, how much they are in that training, which, in addition to practical and theoretical knowledge, predicts and skills, is not quite clear what is meant by skills... What are these skills that a legal holder needs to know? I don't know what those skills are about. It's about political opportunity, the ties between the president of the courts and the judges on the one hand and the other by the prosecutors and their deputies. We're not even aware of the impact of the judge's president on the judges and the impact of the prosecutors on the deputies. There's an even greater impact on the deputy prosecutors, so I'm going to give you a very fresh example, which just sounds amazing, given that in 2006, it's not 1948. It is the case of deputy special prosecutor Milan Radovanovic, who passed away a few months ago, who for his 52 years of life and 28 years as a career prosecutor. He began as a prosecutor's intern, an expert associate, as deputy district attorney, deputy district attorney, and was eventually elected deputy special prosecutor. He was prosecuted at the end of last year for giving off official secrets. He was in custody. The release of the official secret consisted of secretly listening to him. He learned about it and told his wife to listen to him and thus gave the official secret by telling his wife to listen to him on his cell phone. Now I'm bringing this case up because it's ad activated, it's not in the works, unfortunately his colleague died; he's been exposed to a huge torture in custody, because he was locked up with the most radical and most notorious criminals who harassed him; he took it hard, and after he got out of custody he had a heart attack and stroke and after 19 days he died, where the direct state killed him. It's a classic example of murder, how a man can kill himself, by the state. It all happened two months ago. The highlight of everything, what I started to talk about political opportunism, first of all, the prosecutor and the deputy prosecutor, for fear of higher posts in the judiciary that will only be strengthened by this decision, because there will be an evaluation, so through those assessments some will advance, and some won't... On the day of the funeral, deputy district attorneys in Belgrade went to the district attorney's office to ask him if it was opportunised, if it is desirable to go to his funeral. The district attorney let it go to every one of them, to assess whether they should go to their colleague's funeral or not. So some came to the funeral and others didn't. I was wondering if that was the case. In 1948, 1950, for people who were informers and died, were their party comrades allowed to go to the funeral of people who were convicted on the basis of Informburo. I asked an older man who worked in Homeland Security who arrested and detained his party comrades and comrades from World War II. I was wondering if he was allowed to go to the funeral or if he had to get an opinion on the committee, so that the committee would give him consent to go to the funeral. He told me no one asked that question. It was even a shame not to go to a funeral. I made a parallel between 1948 and those times that were as they were in 2006 and something that happened two months ago. My astonishment was enormous, it turned out that the position of the judicial authorities, primarily the prosecution, was far worse than it was in 1948 or 1950, when Informburo was in progress and there was an external threat to our country. In such situations, no one has ever asked whether to go to a funeral or not. Now, in 2006, Belgrade district attorneys' deputy prosecutors are going to the district attorney's office to see if it's convenient to go to a funeral, because an investigation has been conducted against him, or not. I think it's a disaster for our judicial system, and it also paints the position of judges and the position of prosecutors in the judicial system. This law absolutely will not improve or change anything in terms of quality work, by imposing some training on someone who has already graduated from law school and has a certain years of working experience, passed a judicial exam and was elected to that post on the basis of the work shown in the judiciary. I think this law will only put itself more under the control of the holders of judicial functions and make them even more obedient to their elders. In the end, I'd make one analogy or parallel. Why would the legislative authority in this way restrict another branch of power, primarily the judiciary. I guess it's the judiciary that's just going to assess whether they need extra training for judges or not, based on the quality of the judgments they're doing. There is a higher court that will give a lower court assessment through judgments, so it is a mechanism to check the quality of the work of the judiciary, not whether someone has completed or not completed the training and that his assessment from that training is a recommendation for further progress. If we consistently apply this principle of training, whether our judiciary is trained or not, or this is how to put the judiciary completely under control, why don't we pass a law on government and ministers' training. They're the bearers of the executive authority. Why shouldn't our ministers be more subdued by practical and theoretical knowledge to perform their duties in executive power, as well as by judges. So, let's pass a law on mandatory training of ministers and prime minister. Given the negotiations that our government is conducting on Kosovo and Metohija in Vienna, and the disintegration of the community with Montenegro and the overall position of our country, I would suggest that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica read "The Ideology of Serbian Nationalism" Dr Vojislav Seselj as a single reading that would give him instructions on how to negotiate in Vienna. In general, I would recommend to the entire government that they read "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", as the Bucharest's protection of Serbia's national and state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26832	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the Government thought this was one of the laws that would introduce us to Europe, I will inform the Minister, I will inform him when he arrives, and you gentlemen from the ruling coalition -- wipe this out, drop out, there's nothing. Bulgaria and Romania adopted everything they proposed and sold both their laundry and shirt, and now they get 10 conditions. One of the conditions is to eradicate corruption. If you go to root out corruption, half the ministers will have to arrest you. You know that in every business obtained from the Ministry of Capital Investment, the VAT is accounted for – give it half to Veli. Let's get back to the law. It is not possible to discuss Article 10, for example, without regard to Articles 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11. That's why I'm going to spread the story a little bit so the whole situation can be seen. First, the interns of prosecutors and judges, as you have called them, and so far called associates, are not chosen by people without a law school, one of the strongest colleges, without a legal exam, without a traineeship, which lasted two years, and now takes three years. This is the correct path to prepare future prosecutors, deputies, judges, etc. The faulty, perverse route through which you introduced a huge number of lawyers is that in addition to the legal exam, and despite the law school's completion, the basic obligation was to have a membership card from one of your coalition's parties. We got the Deputy Prosecutors Secretary of Agricultural Cooperatives, Secretaries of Primary Schools, and then they went to the interns to pick up diapers and see how the indictments, the appeal and everything else were written. That's why the judiciary is what it is and that's why the members of your parties entered the judiciary and devalued both the judge's institution and the prosecutor's institution. Of course, when someone comes in as an intern and performs a traineeship and is constantly educated, and as far as I know, both in the prosecution and in the court's work, it's very well systemized, and when it comes from law school, it's given easier classes first, and then it goes deeper and it looks at everything and it writes accusations, complaints, and for far more difficult cases. Meanwhile, he passed a judicial exam and became an expert associate and is already ready and able to deal with the most difficult cases, both the judge and the prosecutor. Of course, since they're incompetent to you with a membership card and a ID card in the judiciary, you've then invented some special courts, special prosecutors with special salaries and privileges, and then that unfortunate guy comes out and says he's going to catch pigeon writers, how he's going to sue bumblebees, bees and butterflies all over the Valjevo area. The judge of the municipal court, the district court judge who can't judge the most serious crimes and the most serious crimes, the municipal and district attorney who can't accuse of the most serious crime is not capable of the job, but given what people who work in the prosecution are going through (of course, I'm talking about people who came as interns, not as secretaries of agricultural cooperatives), when they go through all that triage, it can't happen that he's left in the judiciary, that he's advanced in the judiciary, and he hasn't mastered the job. It happens, though, that you set up immorals, as you set up in the Trade Court, so now half of the trade court is being arrested. It also happens that Sabre is arrested by people who are neither guilty nor in debt. A man went off as a prosecutor in Kosovo to do a prosecutor's job, hired him with a gun because it was fired down there; came from Kosovo and they arrested him, said he had a weapon. He does because you gave it to him. There are some other things that are unsaid in these articles. Let's say, "Employees of Initial Training", I guess that's the order of trainees who come, enter the judiciary, not the gods, judges and prosecutors, so they've already done traineeship work and become judge and prosecutor's assistants, "picking the High Council of Justice in the narrow, according to established objective criteria based on the results of work and work experience shown, and on the proposal of the President of the Court, or the Public Prosecutor... ". How are you going to get those you bring from a farming cooperative to be your assistant attorneys, or your deputy prosecutors, or your judicial assistants, because you won't be able to make them judge's assistants immediately? However, since 2000, we have had the situation that a man was admitted to the judge in one day and that same day produced in the President of the Court. Two decisions one after the other. In a country where the president can pardon the same man for the same act twice, anything is possible. I remind you of the case when Vojislav Kostunica pardoned the Cypriot who was sentenced to 13 years, served two years. Natasa Kandic goes to him, takes the papers, and this guy pardons him for 10 years. Natasa Kandic, with papers in prison where he did time, and the prison manager says he has another year to go to jail. Of course, Natasa Kandic, gunned down, returns (I wish I had attended the scene as she explained herself with Kostunica) and Kostunica pardons the same Shipar within 15 days for another year; instead of pulling the first solution for 10 years and pardoning him for 11 years, with one pardon to finish the job, he is a disgrace to the world, and otherwise he is a doctor of legal science. Mr. Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 10th Amendment. The content of the training program is determined depending on the previous professional experience of the user. The High Judicial Council of the General Assembly sets out the initial training programmes on a proposal from the Commission, and the judicial centre, which is the auxiliary body of the High Council of Justice, determines the ongoing training programmes. Your eggs are older than your chicken. I think it would be wise if the minister were there, I suppose, to accept that he's withdrawing this law, but since he's not here, when he comes back, I'm going to have to come out for some more amendment to tell him. Let him withdraw the law, let him not be confused, lest we adopt laws that will be literally for the shelf. We won't be able to get into Europe. We will enter Europe when Romania and Bulgaria enter, and as far as I understand -- never.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26834	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to be able to discuss a legal act, it was necessary for the Minister of Justice to report first of all where the money from the 2000 donations has been spent so far and what training the holders of judicial functions have been in the period from the beginning of 2001 to today. According to my information, huge funds from abroad have reportedly arrived at the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court and NGOs that have been involved in educating the holders of judicial functions. First, it should be announced to the public, to the MPs who pass this law and, above all, to the professional public and to the holders of judicial functions where the money has gone from donations and where the money that the state has singled out from its budget for the education and training of judicial holders. One of the nadal and pointless members is this member who refers to the training program: "The content of the training program is determined depending on the previous professional experience of the users. "Does this mean that someone was a calamari or a veterinarian, gained experience as a calamari or as a veterinarian and now comes to the judge's place? It was in the past, when mechanics were judges of the joint work courts. You had a judge at Panc's joint work of an KV mechanic. It is said – depending on his professional experience. Should we consider whether someone has been in a farming society for a month or two days or has been in a court or a prosecutor's office as an intern or as a judicial or prosecutor's assistant, or if one of the lawyers has worked in an enterprise, in an authority of the administration where he has already gained some experience in the field of legal sciences? from the area of a certain branch of legislation. This is why, now, the High Council of Justice has the right to decide on this, and in Article 7, you have the High Council of Justice to decide according to the complaint of the participants, i.e. the candidate for training, initial or permanent. The complaint is being submitted to the High Council of Justice, the High Council of Justice is making a decision and the same candidate has the right to file a complaint or other remedy to re-apply to the High Council of Justice. The High Council of Justice is now given another jurisdiction, another jurisdiction. And one organ can't decide twice on two legal remedies, it can't. What is said here in the "expanded composition" – what an extended composition; let it be an extended composition, but none of those who participated in resolving complaints or complaints can previously be in solving this complaint or legal remedy. I warn the public and those who work in the prosecutions, courts, judges and prosecutors, but especially the judges and judicial administration, that you have individuals who have become bureaucrats to this extent to treat the parties entering litigation or non-parony proceedings as if they were accused and citizens are often seen as being in a boxing ring, not being brought to court for justice. One even broke his finger when he hit his fist on the table because the party asked a question. In that direction, you don't have to educate people like that here, but happiness is that there are individuals in certain judicial bodies... I'll finish now, but I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26836	The word has been made by MP Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26837	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for the amendment, because I think the the thesis my predecessor made is extremely wrong and incorrect. This member makes it very clear – the previous professional experience, what calamari, fruit trees, vineyards, professional experience in the profession that this law regulates. When we talk about orchards and vineyards, then there'll probably be a calamari, so I'm asking you not to deceive the public, but to talk about this law that's on the agenda. The second thing my predecessor spoke of was an objection to the High Council of Justice. Article 10 edits something completely different and says that the training programme is governed by a commission composed of judges and prosecutors, i.e. the deputy prosecutor, has 12 plus three, and they are setting up a training programme. The High Justice Council only determines that training. Therefore, this remark is absolutely not valid, because the objection defined in Article 7 refers to something completely different, which is to users who object to the High Council of Justice in relation to whether or not they have been admitted or admitted to the process of professional training. So when we speak, we have to make sure that we don't go after grandmothers and frogs, because Article 7 and Article 10 are governed by a completely different area, although it's clear to me and the DSS that a colleague simply doesn't want this law to be passed, he doesn't want judges, prosecutors, judicial assistants to be educated, to have additional training, to complement their knowledge. And not only, as some dangerous thesis has been heard, that some NGOs may form whatever weights to teach it, gentlemen, for a long time, with the help of very good, recognised world experts, within the framework of the CARDS programme, under the assistance of the European Commission and the Council of Europe, expert seminars for members of our judiciary are organised. If someone has something against it, let them say it for a pay phone, but that's not true and that's not a fact, nobody can say it, because we can talk about it; as one of the participants of the CARDS program, I can talk about it completely competently, about all the teachers who lectured to all our judges, from the Supreme Court to the municipal court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26838	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26839	The honourable MPs, the amendment I have submitted to Article 11, as well as the previous amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, reads that Article 11 is deleted. What we heard in the principle debate, in the discussion of the details and in the opening presentation of the Minister of Justice, and from DSS MPs, I would ask the question – if it is stated here in the light of this law that there is a judicial centre for training and professional training for many years, and given that before this establishment of the judicial centre there was also a practice, which has been continued to this day, that consultations, seminars of judges, prosecutors, and that I am known in Vrnjačka Banja, in Kopalnik, Zlatibor, in Budva, Herceg Novi, and in light of any major law that has been passed in the National Assembly, which is in some way related to the work of prosecutors and judges and to the work of courts and prosecutors. Here we have heard from the minister of justice that, in fact now, by passing the law and applying the provisions of this law, the situation in the Serbian judiciary will change, so there will be 65% of the judgments lifted. But what to do with cases where judgments have not been reached for years, in which state is that part of the proceedings or the satisfaction of justice for those who have spoken to the court in anticipation that the court will pass judgment, and they have been waiting for years, with the payment of enormous court fees; as a rule, these are ignorant parties, it is an extremely high bar tariff and they pass the years and there is no verdict and the conclusion of a legal dispute and a situation that pressures an individual, family or more people. Article 11 provides for the composition of the commission to propose, in fact, an initial training programme on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to establish the programme in the extended composition. In addition to all these previous members, this commission will be, in fact, a committee of judges, 12 judges and three public prosecutors, who will be caps and professors of law schools, and that commission to pass a judicial examination and anything that precedes the obtaining of a judicial or prosecutor's assistant or judge or prosecutor or deputy prosecutor. The laws should be clear and accurate. If special training is required for the holders of judicial functions according to specific programmes, as provided for in Article 10, this Commission of Article 11, and the laws should be clear and precise for the sake of application, because not only apply the laws of prosecutors and judges, but many ignorant parties should, in fact, understand every provision of the law, because in ordinary life, work and behaviour should behave according to the provisions of many laws, what needs to be done now especially through training of a centre, through some programme, to train judges to apply the laws, and you yourself said that certain judges, although there has been a new Law on litigation, did not read the law after a year. If we attach ourselves to this fact and to the claim of the number of judgments abolished, is there even a possibility that such judges may be trained through this training or that a better result of making or conducting judicial proceedings will not be 65% of the judgments lifted? I'm sure it won't be. The counseling should continue, as has been done so far, but have a goal, not to be a tourist counseling. I haven't served as judge or prosecutor, but if this condition is reflected in the results of the prosecution's work and the courts, then neither has the counseling done any good. Also, responsibility for the situation in the judiciary, from you as minister, to the High Council of Justice, whose head is the Supreme Court President, is that responsibility. What happened in the previous period, as of October 5th, that anarchy and chaos that brought DOS into the whole state, the whole legal system, destroying and trampling everything, from the Constitution, as Batic said, and others, that the Constitution should not stick to, that the constitution should be suspended by means of an act here and by voting, and to the anti-constitutional law that a new constitution should be passed, to everything that was happening in the proposal and elections, the first shift of the president of the courts, prosecutors, and after the election of judges and prosecutors, and the terrible pressure, anarchy and chaos in the work of prosecutors and judges, and since the arrival of this government of the "democratic bloc" and the takeover of the Justice ministry has not changed the situation and the situation in the judiciary more significantly. Now I have only one example here from the King, and I will have to take over the practice of MP Krasic, and to pass these many items to you, ministers, and to the President of the Supreme Court, from day to day. People are hopeless. Here is one case for a car accident or injury that happened to a woman on June 17, 1991 – only a judicial verdict on November 15, 2005. It's been 16 years since the accident, the injuries have been severe, material and immaterial damage, suffering fear and pain. We even have, since the case was at the municipal court in then Tito Mitrovica, and according to the appeal, it was not decided, but it was the decision of the then District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, the absolute obsolescence of the criminal proceedings. Now that woman is no longer able, since she can't walk either, her daughter has broken through the King's thresholds, has also spoken to the Control Committee and mentioned the Whiteman there, with signatures, one or two sentences, to return all these submissions, all cry out to the Royal Municipal Court, to collect this by judgment after 16 years of that terrible injury and the consequences of that injury. She's come into a situation where she's fighting an extremely unequal fight. She's poor, she's out of a job in the "Meader", she's paying and an artificial traffic profession in that earlier procedure, now she's out of business, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out, she's out of work, she's out, she's out of work, she's out, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out, she's out, she's out of work, she's out, she's out, she's out of work, she's out of work, she's out of work, she', she', she's out, she's out, she's out of work, she's out of work, she', she's out of work, she's out of work, she', she's out of work, she', she's got some, she', she', she', she', she', she', she's got some, she's out, she', she's out, she's out, she's out, she's It is a harsh reality that many citizens in Serbia are exposed to, thanks to the ineffectiveness of courts, judicial proceedings, prosecutors, as we can see here, the absolute limitations of criminal prosecution arises. Not to say what's going on in criminal proceedings. Last night I mentioned here the subject of execution in an attempt, selling the entire property of "Electron" from the King, a former social enterprise, now AD, since it was privatized, and that cry of workers when the sale was made for two months at the Municipal Court in the Kingdom, based on a solution to carry out fake invoices. No one's answering anything, no one's checking anyone's accounts, and you're probably getting to know that case, Minister. The case law, the views of the Supreme Court and the absolute monitoring of the work of each judge, the results of the work, with these principles which are not at all to be discussed, of the independence of the judiciary, of every judge, of every prosecutor, of the deputy prosecutor, of the effectiveness of the work, but of what is most important and most difficult that is happening to us, and which cannot be resolved by those who are the most responsible, who are obliged to resolve this, that the holders of the judicial functions should not be corrupt, must not be associated with crime, they must strictly adhere to the law, be in the interest of efficiency, the satisfaction of justice, the determination of the truth and the decision to be carried out. I have no doubt that you have visited many courts in Serbia; and when you have visited whether you have asked for the number of pending cases, how many cases are these, where the judge, how many are they transferred from one judge to another when the judges are redistributed at the beginning of each year, and whether there are the responsibilities of the concrete judges, and particularly the president of the courts? As a member of the SRS, on behalf of many citizens who are absolutely dissatisfied with the situation in the Serbian judiciary, the functioning of the prosecution and courts, cannot be satisfied with these answers and the attempt to change the situation by adopting this law, which will take effect in March next year. Here, a number of times mention is made of recommendations, declarations, the EU resolution, meeting some of the conditions for this ultimate goal, EU entry. At the beginning, it was said, since the DOS came to power, that it takes us three, four, five years, and was mentioned in 2007, and now it is no longer known for years, it seems there will be no entry, that there will be 4,000 regulations to bring this normative part into line with the EU. We will enter the European Union when we pass the seal protection law, since we have an obligation between these 4,000 laws and the cucumber law, or how many cucumbers can have a curve to be found on the market or in the markets. Then we will enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26840	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26841	This Article of the Law provides for the duration of initial training, and how – the training of users of initial training under Article 6(1) of this Act (referring to judge and prosecutoral assistants) takes two years, and for users of initial training under Article 8 of this Act (and these are those selected as judges or prosecutors who have not been trained) from three to six months, depending on their professional experience. Now, as funny as that's gonna look in the money laundering, here's what I'm going to read you with this amendment. This is an incredibly pointless member, Professor. Judges and prosecutors have been educated for two years, and those elected as judges, prosecutors, or deputies, have not been trained before the election, so they are elected for this, all of which should be mastered in three to six months. A judicial assistant who works in court for several years takes another two years to train and doesn't have to be elected judge, because the National Assembly is choosing, and if elected as judge in the meantime, then training will be completed in three to six months. So the judge starts training for two years, makes these yellow ties, picks him up here as a judge, he gets two years of training to finish training in three to six months. Now, there's a professor here who knows that if something is prescribed to last for two years, then I guess that class and the program are made seriously to get someone dressed, and if it's three to six months you know how it was done. So the following is said: if the secretary of the cooperative or the lawyer who works at the dad's office is elected judge, he will be trained as judge within three to six months of this member of yours, and the judge who works in court (Article 12, is not a novel but is an amendment, Minister) for years if, by any chance, the President of the Court gets the right to train for two years and never has to be elected as judge. You see how pointless it is when someone decides that a law should be made to justify some means and how this law should have someone wave and say – see how serious we are, how serious this is, how serious this is, how seriously it's approach to transformation, reforming the entire justice system, here's how seriously we are investing in judge training. Of course, there's nothing. So we've exposed the background of this concept and this proposal. This is due to the judicial centre, the members of this committee simply to be arrested, to hold these lectures, with simple confirmation that someone was in class, a simple confirmation should be proof that he was trained. Now, there's only one guarantee here. What guarantee isn't there? There is no guarantee that this trained judge or prosecutor, everyone in his jurisdiction, will legally work. After I've solved it, Minister, to empty these drawers, I'll take a complaint from you, you don't have to take it. The appeal against the liquidator and the liquidating judge in some case in front of this worst court, this commercial here, is mentioned here by Željko Munez and I'm not telling you, you know this team that's showing up. Now, if that case had been done by someone who had confirmed that he had completed training, are you sure that the decision would have been legal? You can't be sure. What is the guarantee of the legality of the decision? Confirming that someone had completed training and that the lecturer during training was that lawyer? You know, when they asked him the other day, I don't know, I forgot his name, they ask him on TV – well, you keep training there in that center, you train these judges for international law, etc.? It says yes. So he says, "How do you feel when you show up at that judge's office, as a lawyer, as a defender, etc.?" So he says, "No, that's when it's professional." Well, you know how professional it can be when a student comes to a professor or a teacher at a student. You know, it can't be like that. I've got another subject. It says – in addition, we send you documentation that speaks eloquently about so-called. The reform of the judiciary, discussed yesterday by Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, as well as by who and how he controls and monitors the work of courts in the Republic of Serbia. This is Dimitrijevic, this is Rudan and what Mr. Radovanovic got from Svilajnc, and it is also addressed to you, Mr. Minister, regarding someone named Aleksandr Petrovic, you probably know. If only 3% of what's written here is true, then that man would have to be more in prison than on the loose, but what do we do? You see how pointless things can be. We now have in the courts judicial assistants who have worked for years, some are so sure that they will never be elected judge. I agree that some may not be able to be judges, but I am also sure that a large number of young people who have finished, passed a judicial exam, conducted this internship, received to work as assistants, waiting to be freed from a job so that someone would choose them as judges, with far more elans looking at objects that they get to work than individual judges. Some judges just fell asleep because they know one phone call can turn everything around. I just gave you Mr. Domazette's case, as it ends through the Supreme Court. He's not going to bother in there with these court cases. Those in Nis know who he is, so that is why he makes such decisions. How does he represent it, how... And here in the Supreme Court you have this non-governmental sector, a civil sector that burns and burns. You have a terrible lawyer lobby, and you have an immoral group in that lobby. I will mention to you one large-scale lawyer representing Vuk Draskovic by filing a criminal complaint against Zoran Djindjic. When Zoran Djindjic died, he became the authority of the Djindjic family and did not change the story, the story was exactly the same, and when he filed a criminal complaint on behalf of Vuk Draskovic against Zoran Djindjic and now representing the family of Zoran Djindjic in a trial conducted in front of this court. 30 years ago, he had a big dispute with Vuk Draskovic who is a major patriot, so then the chief of cabinet Mike Špiljka, otherwise the baby-sitter for that Andric Ivan of the Civil League, because Mika Špiljak was his grandfather, you know, and the Wolf kept a little bit of Andric... That's how our political scene was formed, and within these limits there is the application of rights and laws with us. Here he is, now attacking the Supreme Court for abolishing the verdict. The suspension of the verdict does not hurt anyone's head, but the case comes back and examines itself, and it is again determined that the truth would occur, but Vuk Draskovic is not responding to the truth. Now you can imagine the pressure of the judges. Here's to remind you, Mr Stojkovic, a very good deputy of the republic's public prosecutor did not pass in this assembly only on the insistence of Vuk Draskovic and Danica Draskovic. Some Greasy, I think, Smilin Mrdak, for whom most of the people who are in the judiciary all the best talk as an expert. He couldn't get through here. Why? Because the criteria for the election were not the profession, but how to calm them down to keep those 126 here. You will have such a situation that only qualified or through the centre of a trained judge and prosecutors will be brought here because no one can provide them with protection. Mr. Vukic told you this morning how to comment on it in the media. Malten criminal charges, indictments, the whole trial, convictions, it's all over, prepares the public through the media. Let me see the judge who's gonna find something else in the process. He can't claim anything else. He's been prevented from making progress, he's going to be alive, some of them might even make flyers with his paintings, and they're going to mention everything to that man. You know, I appreciate the attempt to make a transformation, reform the best. But the means to do so must be so reliable that they guarantee that the situation will be better when it is implemented as it is written. We've shown here on several examples that this is plain paper, like a large number of laws. I don't know, Markovic boasts, 208 or 258 laws; what is worth having so many laws when none is applied. You yourself know that those in the Supreme Court scream when it comes to applying the Law of Registration to the Commercial Register. Then those of the Agency ask the Supreme Court to interpret to them what is written in the law. The situation is similar with other regulations and laws, not to mention those Parish laws. None can be applied. What Parivodić represents here, no state body can apply, and even the bank cannot comply with the law. It's not enough to just write something as a set of good wishes. This must be possible, feasible, in some ways and cheap and efficient, etc. We can pass the law here that we're going to build atomic bombs, etc., but there's someone who can laugh so hard to say -- maybe it's not so bad that you wrote it, but it's inconclusive. It's like writing a law: whoever wants to be a judge has to jump seven feet up. Let's see who jumps seven meters up. I think this is the wrong concept. In Article 17 of this proposal, the law states what the Supreme Court had to do in terms of the training of judges, what the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office should have done in terms of the training of prosecutors. Those two norms are quite enough to train and train judges and prosecutors. You're now making some artificial mix to raise a judicial centre, to burn and burn some, perhaps even pensioners, maybe some experts, maybe some professor, probably a good number of judges who run some departments. What will be the ultimate effect of that training? It will be plain paper to say: Janko Jankovic took training from that day to that day, when it is collected for two years, as a judge's assistant, or six months when it comes to this or these permanent trainings, the judge came neatly, etc. Here you have interpreted the subject of the trial as a change of specialization. They say - in case of a change in this speciality then he goes to training. That's not even possible in medicine. How would you make a cardiologist out of a gynecologist now? He was a gynecologist, so now he needs to move on to work as a cardiologist, so he's taking some training. He's not going to training, he's going to special. Where? To a serious institution. You know how many years it takes. You say here – mandatory training in case of a change in specialization. What does it mean? Don't judge any more guilt, he's going to litigation, and now he has to go to training. Why would he have to go to training? Where's the court practice? How are you going to do that in small courts? Explain to me how you're going to do this in Babusnica or elsewhere where there are so many judges that you can count them on the fingers of one hand. Don't interpret to Belgrade that it's all Serbia; I wish Serbia was as whole as Belgrade, but it wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26842	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can call this a key member, of whom the whole law actually revolves. All of this is just a form in which training will be held and how the legislator imagined it, and Article 13 says mystically, with the title – place of training: "The justice centre organises the implementation of the training programme. Training is done in courts, public prosecutors, the judicial centre and other institutions. "A colleague Milorad Mircic asked that this member be deleted and he received an absolutely unacceptable explanation. That the explanation contained some vision of the financial structure that Serbian citizens would be costing the judicial centre; so far, the centre for training of judges... I will again, Minister, quote to you what these are writing from this European Commission, says – Serbia-Montenegro, a report on the progress made, now tell you that you are no longer making progress, because you are asked to step on the issue of state and national interests and to hunt for the famous General Mladic wherever you know and know, thank God you are not doing it. But as they said some progress was made, the document on page 17 said -- a centre for training judges, which still depends heavily on donations, continued to organise training for appointed judges mainly in connection with the implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights. Imagine, they care about human rights here in Serbia, and we know how they care. A law providing for comprehensive professional training of judges and prosecutors and strengthening the financial capacity of the centre for training of judges has not yet been adopted and its adoption is expected. The place of training is a judicial centre, which you don't know where it's going to be, how much it's going to cost, where the lecturers are going to get hired, with what kind of biographies. You know that we had in the assembly council, unfortunately, these people are still professors at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which he eventually exposed, and especially this fraud and dirty plagiarist, Stevan Lilić, Professor Vojislav Seselj. You remember the very well of this case, as well as many judges of fraud, who have done their job in an unholy manner. This is because he plagiarized from administrative law and inserted into his textbook, or even administrative law written by one of the greats of our science Lazo M. Kostic, and was exposed by Dr Vojislav Seselj. Now you're saying some teachers are gonna show up to train judges, prosecutors, deputy prosecutors. We don't know who they are or what they are. Look, this morning, Mr. Wolficher spoke to you about who's going to be sitting in this RRA. He hasn't had time to write that he's a prominent member of the DS. The one who's the head of the National Office, these thieving, mobstered Tadic and Gilas' organization from Prokupje, the dead cold says he wants to be a prosecutor or a judge. He's running for D.A.'s office. We don't know who they are, or how much they'll cost, or how many employees they'll have, or how much they'll pay, or what amount of money they'll spend on the budget, or what they'll spend on donations. Those who've been giving you donations so far, your mentors, there's obviously been a dry tap. You see, for all that: one ultimatum, the other, the third, and they say there's nothing left. If the judicial centre is financed mostly from the budget, what is the amount of the funds? Will this be regulated by this special law that requires the adoption of a law that provides for a comprehensive professional training of judges and a centre for the training of judges, as you called it a judicial centre. It may not be an accurate translation, or they did not know how you would say it in Serbian. We need all this data, only so you can remove any suspicion that it will not be a money laundering polygon, a place where huge financial resources will be laundered and where direct intervention in the spending of funds will have a personal finance minister, Mladjan Dinkic, and he will also determine that the budget item is prescribed for every year how much it will cost. Mr. Minister, every day and every month, and mostly quarterly or half-yearly, such demands appear, the holders of judicial functions demand that they have higher salaries, that they have better conditions. Now you've made it up, you've been a successful judge for decades, and now you're a minister, and you haven't been through this kind of training, or who asked you to jump up and down, or do this or that, and run 100 meters or I don't know what else. You've finished your law school well, passed your judicial exam and took the order and reached the functions you've come to. You're making up something that's gonna cost, and you don't know how much. Let any MP come out of the ruling structure and say, under Article 13, since the judicial centre is the place of training, how much will it cost the citizens of Serbia. It doesn't say here that funds from the budget or any funds will be needed. It's impossible it doesn't cost. Somebody's got to pay for it. So, they'll pay taxpayers. Judges will tell you nicely and prosecutors – it is better to have an increase in wages, and all other employees in Serbia's courts, because their demands and their unions are high when only judges get paid. You know Batic cheated on them, lied to them, promised them everything and everything, and there was nothing of it. It's better if you went to it than this way to start one of those centers. You've seen what the magnificent building of the Ministry of Finance looks like. Whoever never came to Belgrade in the evening to come and pass from this side of the Prince Milos from the federal assembly and right to look at the finance ministry building, will think that's where the prime minister is sitting and that's where all the events are being acquired. It's not. Mladjan Dinkic inside obtained equipment from who knows how many million euros, tens of millions are likely to count. We don't even know where the justice center is going to be, or how much it's gonna cost. You just write it like that, and it exists, and it's going to be done there, and God knows when, from whose money and how you're going to start it. That's what happened to the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac. Now there's a dispute at every session of the town of Kragujevac's assembly, here's to let you know, Mr. Minister; these are committee issues, there's a controversy, and the whole town is thinking about where the building of the Court of Appeal is going to be. They invent, there's one there, he's the deputy mayor of Veroljub Stevanović, a man philosopher, so he's got all kinds of fixations: and it's going to be a crown of judges, so he's going to connect and move the ambulance, the emergency center, it's going to be there, it's that building on the corner across from the court building, you've been a hundred times, you say, in Kragujevac. Now the whole mess in the city has risen over what was found to be there and its headquarters and what building it is. All it says here is that it exists and we have no idea how much it's going to cost or where it's going to be or what it's going to be. This is all what we are told to do and to establish such a centre in Serbia these external human rights fighters, Solana, a criminal and a criminal, and his family. He comes back and slaps you on the shoulder and comforts you - you'll see, I'll take care of it, I'll give you some time to hunt down the general and until you catch Mladic... You know, don't worry that they're frozen further negotiations. Bulgarians and Romanians negotiate with them, you know how much... Here, four months ago, I was in an official delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia led by a respected colleague, Milorad Mircic, whose amendment we are now talking about, in Bulgaria. They were confident, by ministers and assistants, through their deputies... Now they'll come back to visit our Defence and Security Committee, and what they'll tell us. They'll say, "Here's nothing." We're still on the stand. They were confident, on January 1st, they said -- we'll be in the EU, with all their abstentions and, of course, a skeptic who's normal because there's no pension there, the average earns no profit; and the ketchup that they've successfully produced can no longer produce, and that they have the market provided for him, because the import lobby has run them over. That's what you do in all segments of our social life. It's easy for that unfortunate and separatist Milo Djukanovic, if you watched him talk like that last night, he's 17 years in crime, so he came to power and robbed that poor people there, Serbs in Montenegro and everyone who lives there. He's still convinced he'll win 21st on Sundays, so he talks. I'll do it like this. He accepted everything, but because of his own personal interest and because of his pocket and his brother and those separatistally torn brothers around him. You know, we don't need that in Serbia. We don't need that kind of innovation and stuff. I understand, my colleague was just talking about it, he's a lawyer and every normal young man thinks about his colleague, he's a politician, but he who's left to work in the profession and who wants to work in court and in the prosecution of course wants to have better conditions and gain greater knowledge, and above all, it's important to provide them with good pay. You know that an expert associate in court until a few months ago, the one who's been doing the whole job for the deputy prosecutor, had a salary of 10 or 11,000 dinars. All these people - these are young experts who have yet to be elected as deputies, prosecutors or judges - do not matter – they prefer to have a higher salary than to set up a training centre where someone will chew up the kamak and launder money. It's not such a simple thing. You, as minister of justice, will not be able to control these money flows, because you too do not have financial resources, you as Zoran Stojkovic, but as finance minister. He's the one who's going to determine how much money he needs and then the clans will be made around both the equipment and the seminar and everything. What's worst of all, you won't be able to do it at all, if you mean it like that... Well, that yellow lobby is so strong, unfortunately, they've ruined everything in this country. As soon as they push this director of the National Office of Prokuplja to be the holder of the judicial function, they will also determine who will buy the necessary equipment, as they and those from G17 with fiscal registers and reading equipment, etc. Then Cedomir Jovanovic knew what a fiscal account would look like. He made a deal already, and then he didn't count on it any faster, before he left power. So you don't count on early parliamentary elections and not to exercise power until December 2007 as you predicted. I believe by then there won't be time to establish a judicial centre, and that's pure nonsense. This article 13 and this response to my colleague Mircic's amendment because he taxed all his doubts, I mostly repeated them, and I added something, about who's going to spend, how many donations, how much money from the budget, which the lecturers, where this is going to be, the list of courts in which the training was done, the list of prosecutors. If there is no clear answer to this question, but is simply said to be necessary, then it is also doubtful that there will be abuse, creating a caste in Serbia, unnecessary, and all at the expense of Serbian citizens and those working in courts, rather than having higher salaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26844	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26845	Just informatively, do not worry whether the centre will be established, whether it will have the opportunity, it exists, is established, its headquarters is in Karajordjev 48. This pay question, this number you listed is lower than the dactylograph's salary in court. They're all over 20,000; not 10,000; that's what I found when I got here, and now it's over 20,000 and something professional.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26846	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26847	I know what data you've got, and you have to have, like, a lot of work to do. You are obliged and obliged to answer my parliamentary question, as far as I know the Rules of Procedure, and I know it perfectly. Now let me ask you to charge me from the porters via the dactylographs, you have to tell me in the dinar. I didn't tell you it was now, I told you a few months or a year ago, don't hold my word. Even if it was duplicated, and you're now saying how many dactylographs they have, that's a little bit, Mr. Minister. I didn't say he'd just be founded. These EU mentors of yours who have hitched negotiations with you say that they exist and that so far has mostly been funded from donations. I didn't find it in the budget. There's our budget expert, Mr. Arsic. Arsic, is there a point to the judge's training center? It doesn't exist. So, it's only going to be for next year and it's just asking the question as much as we need it. If you ask me how much taxpayers' taxpayers' export promotion agency, 50 million dinars. If you look at whether the promotion of exports and whether the export rate is higher than when the Agency was established, it is not. I'm just expressing my doubts about how to spend that money and whether it's necessary. It's better for those people who, and all that, are doubled wages... Of course, you had to do something, you're not going to say you're the same as Vladan Batic. That you have now confirmed that there is still a salary of 10,000 dinars, as I said earlier, then it is useless to be there as a minister, because I know that you do not want to be like Batic and that you have his work results. Even if it's increased, it's nothing. It's better to go to pay than to that center that we really don't know how much it's going to cost. It exists, but funds from the budget are needed. It better all go into more useful things. You misread me, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26848	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law. The SRS parliamentary group has shown by a completely strong argument that there is no need for such a law, and its applicability in practice is only questionable to speak and to believe it. This article prescribes that permanent or occasional lecturers are holders of judicial duties and that, for a permanent lecturer, the High Council of Justice may designate a judicial officer who has spent at least four years on judicial duty, but is also trained as a lecturer. It is not known what shows training for a lecturer, it is not clear who determines occasional lecturers from the order of judicial officials, and who hires prominent experts, who train lecturers at the judicial centre. The occasional lecturers, regardless of whether they are holders of judicial duties or allegedly experts, and even more prominent, outside the judiciary, have the right to compensation. What is the fee, as determined, how is it paid, who are by the names and last names of permanent lecturers, who are these prominent experts outside the court and how much do they cost? The training of a permanent lecturer is carried out in a judicial centre, which is also discriminatory. The High Council of Justice, in the opinion of the President of the Supreme Court, or the Republic Public Prosecutor, may, in order to implement the training programme, be referred to by the holder of the judicial duty, etc. Why don't I, as an SRS MP, trust what the High Council of Justice does when an ordinary citizen listens to this and says it's something high moral, something high-level? Now, Mr. Minister, I'm going to try to get into the essence of this High Council of Justice. You're probably familiar with the case, you're a very often guest in Smederev, from where I'm from, and you participated in an election campaign. You supported the DSS candidate, current president of Smederevo Municipality, Mr. Sasha Radosavljevic. There, in the Smedereva court after October 5th, a relatively anonymous lawyer was elected in Smederev, Milorad Klasna as judge of the court; on the same day he was first elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Smederev, and then as President of the Court. If you'd chosen him president of the Supreme Court, a meteoric speed would have made progress. When his term expired, the Smederev District Court's College of Justice recommended him again for another term of office, the proposal goes to the High Council of Justice. In the High Council of Justice, something strange is suddenly happening, candidate Tomislav Bojkovic, who was eventually the president of the Smederevo court, although won one or two votes at the District Court's college. Then why do you torture these people, and why do you deceive them, create the illusion that their opinion is important and that the proposal is not respected for the college? Then comes the proposal to the Assembly of the High Council of Justice for Tomislav Boykovic. The SRS MPs, particularly Mr Krasic, challenged Mr Boykovic. The High Justice Council is withdrawing the proposal. The proposal says that during Milorad Klasna, the current president, the court was brought to the lowest branches, and Tomislav Bojkovic is credited with being one of the most beautiful buildings in Serbia and being renovated; now the second one that ruined it turns out to be the one who peeled malter and walls. No Tomislav Boykovic was elected, a small vacuum was created, this must function until the second election, and when elections were held in Smederev for the president of the municipality Mr Dragan Šormaz, MP of the DSS, the minister of dirty work in front of the DSS, especially for the elections... There it is now in Bor, where the marshes, that Serbian citizens know that the elections in the Kingdom, Vienna and Smeder have been taken from the Republic of Serbia's budgets by a billion and 600 million dinars for the local elections. Why do it, what to do, and it was controversial in 15 polling stations, there were irregularities. The municipal electoral commission in Smederev decided to repeat itself on 5th due to irregularities and to appeal by the DSS to the president of the court. Look, it needs to be formed three times bigger, and that's not done, they've made a failure to decide the municipal electoral commission. It's rapidly forming three times bigger, but that day, half the judges in Smederev, there are honest people, professionals, who didn't want to come to work on purpose. So, the President of the Court comes in to be the third and instead of five, I knew it, I had information, and I held a press conference to tell them that we know what they would do, not at five, but only at two, so that the candidate for the president of Smederevo municipality, Mr. Sasa Radosavljevic, who is now the current president, would not endanger him, in order not to be put at risk by the president of the SRS. There was a difference between 200 and 300 votes. That's why you needed that President of the Court, and that's how the High Council of Justice chooses and decides. One more thing to tell you: one of the famous (I won't, we Smederians are known for our traditional modern hospitality, I hope you felt it too), to support the DSS candidate, she came and has a concert in the square. You know where there's a municipal court in Smederev, and then there's no place to put it, she needs a view of the people, there's a crowd gathering, bread and games and a little music, that's what the poor people need; and where they're going to put it, about 18 o'clock in the evening, they put it in the cabinet of the President of the Court. What's that, a dressing room? After 15 hours, I as a folk MP and every Serbian citizen from Smederev cannot enter the court, the porter comes and says – please, the hours are over, you cannot enter. Is that an estrace artist's dressing room? They'd better take her to church and change her at the altar. That's how they behave, and when you go there, you're the minister of justice, then they freak out next to you, tell you everything nice to hear. That's why there are other MPs, with a different view, not malicious, but in the interest of an independent judiciary, to solve problems in the judiciary, and here I tell you how it was done and how it's chosen. Careful, the High Council of Justice for the current president of the court says he destroyed the court in Smederev and is now in the second term. Is that normal? I know that every waterman thinks that grain exists just because the mill turns to him. Your mill will only work a little while longer until the Serbian Radical Party wins by the will of Serbian citizens. Then there'll be a chance for an independent judiciary, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26850	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by MP Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26851	I'll take a quick look at the amendment. First, I would ask my colleague to, if possible, pass a bill in the next seven to ten days, even when they did government, where names are listed, since he asked for the names of the lecturers to be listed here. He can do it in a month, not a problem, he can bring it, because he asked me to. I'm interested, if I could get that, and if it's possible, that all this stuff he said at the DSS account is supporting some evidence, because what he just said about the pay phone is very dangerous. I know he's nervous about losing the election in Smederev, but when the next election is, let him do it in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26852	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26853	When the honourable MP is a minister, he'll probably be asked to make a list. Let's get back to the amendment. He says: "The training program is carried out by the holders of judicial duties, as permanent or occasional lecturers and other prominent experts, as occasional lecturers. "What other prominent experts are they, Mr. Minister? Are those professors from law school? There's at least 10 of them out there who don't deserve to go to law school, you have one who's dragged into the intellectual elite, and the little door has passed, and the only thing he knows, he's got to sew up the sheets and prescribe other people's works and sign under someone else's side. You have that unfortunate previous minister of education, that's you, Gašo Knezevic, who's on these camps, what's it called... In my day it was called, in the Serbian people, excursions or excursions, where children go for one or more days in nature. It can't be a field trip anymore. It's camp now. At that camp, girls of 12 years of age in some crazy game of theirs were getting their bras off, that's what we're talking about, that's what these experts are. Who is this expert who will not be in the area of justice and will be able to speak to judges, prosecutors, future judges, future prosecutors, and to speak anything that is related to the judiciary unless we want those European standards? What European standards are we talking about? We're talking about a European standard where they've kept a man in custody for four years and his trial hasn't started yet. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has been awaiting trial for the fourth year. Are those standards to be introduced here? You've been trying, Mr. Minister, through various laws, so from 12 to six months we've been in custody, and now it's up to three years, don't hold my word, to stay in custody. That means you have to convict him for three years to cover up for what he did, he deserved it. By the way, I'm two and a half months... It's not your fault, it's Batic, the one who solves property-legal relations with his neighbor by flying in, fighting with his neighbor, driving into a car, and then reverseing, running down his neighbor, and for 20 days, the man was in the hospital, breaking his leg. That's your graduate lawyer. Three years since I got out of that custody, and the case is still at the level of criminal charges, and with the initial investigation, it stops. I demand you tell me what's wrong with that case. To return to the member, when I have already come out, here in this Article 13 says – will be lectured at the judicial centre, training is done in courts and other institutions. So, what other institutions are these for you? And the National Bank is another institution and all public institutions are other institutions, not to say which can be public institutions. Mr. Minister, you withdraw this law, so much damage will be done; secondly, so much money will be spent in vain; and thirdly, in Europe we will not leave with this. The other day in the paper was a huge title – as soon as we enter Europe, we will have to introduce visas in accordance with European standards; that is what Bulgarians tell you, and now they get another 10 conditions and none can meet. When this gets old for chasing General Mladic, don't let them make you read the phone calls to get into Europe, let her go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26854	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I set a break to 15.10 hours, and the next amendment is to Article 15. Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26855	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we can continue our afternoon work. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Regulation of the Court (Statistics) You have received an amendment submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to the bill of law. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with a correction, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF ARBITRAŽA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Milan Stevović, Petar Jojic, Bozidar Koprivica, Vojislav Milajić, Nemanja Sarović and Gordana Pop-Lazić. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26856	Amendments to the draft arbitration law are on the agenda. Before we engage in considering our amendments, I must say that it is not true what was said in the principle debate about this bill. In principle, we had this area arranged, among other things, by the Law on Prosecution, which was once in force. It seems to me that there have been fifteen provisions that regulate arbitration issues in principle. Since the new Law on the Prosecution is imposed here on the view that arbitration is regulated by a special law, this bill has come up and it really raises the question of arbitration too wide. Now I am going to move specifically to Article 5, because I have submitted an amendment to Article 5(2), and I am asking the amendment to delete the word "physically" in that position; it applies, first of all, to a physical person. In order to monitor the continuity of this amendment, I think I need to read what is stated in paragraph 1: "Arbitration can be agreed on to resolve the property dispute on the rights which the parties freely have, except for disputes for which the jurisdiction of the court is determined". Now this part goes with the amendment, and the government suggests that position 2 reads: "Any natural and legal person can contract arbitration, including the state, its organs, institutions and enterprises in which it has ownership participation." I ask the amendment to delete the word "physically", thus expressing the view of the SRS that arbitration can only be negotiated by legal persons over some disputed relationship from a mutual economic relationship. If we leave the possibility that individuals are also contracting arbitration, we don't need courts. For the relationship between individuals, we have something that was pushed here last year, which is so-called. Mediation, or intermediation in solving a disputed relationship without a court, attempts to get into court before and before someone writes a complaint settles a disputed relationship between individuals. I think this is the idea of arbitration that's too wide. If someone thinks of a natural person as the founder of a craft shop, etc., it must be covered by the term "legal person" because both as an action and as an action is responsible for the commitments undertaken. Arbitration only makes sense if those who participate in a business life with legal personality have the need to apply some specificity arising from the horrors of technical standards and other standards that are not introduced into the regulation, in a binding norm, that is to say, if a solution to the disputed relationship requires the application of rules of a specific profession, then it is only expressed if the relationship between two legal persons, a business relationship, is in question. In this way, we practically promote that attitude that was present earlier on about one of our arbitrations that was in a chamber of commerce. Now, that's the basic thing, and that's the basic concept of the SRS, and that's what all these amendments are based on, I think they're seven-eight. Wherever there's a need for this to change, and from this starting point of view, we've intervened. There will be next amendments, where we will point to some more questions and some areas that we consider to be poorly arranged, but this is a fundamental observation. Nothing law loses if this amendment is adopted, the law becomes quite more serious and it will be simpler to apply. Now, since all this can seem to be some unserious story, especially for those who are not obliged to understand these things, not everyone has to understand at all, I would now say something that we have in practice. You see, before the Belgrade Trade Court, there has been a lawsuit long ago, since 2002 practically. The number of items is P 2006/02. The prosecutor is a company, and the defendant is a SPO. The claim is likely to refer to 40 million dinars, and perhaps it is a larger amount. There is no Mr. Mihailovic there, he is also personally familiar with the dispute, there is no Mr. Stevanovic, and he is personally familiar with the dispute. When I say personally familiar, means they absolutely know all the details, they could even be witnesses in the process, as far as the SPS and the period when Vuk Draskovic was making a memorial home, road, church and who knows what he was doing there. The public must know that at a time when Vuk Draskovic and his wife were burning and burning in Belgrade, and almost nothing differs from what Bogdanovic is doing now, he conditioned that businesses must be donors and sponsors of some investments in Ravno Gora. So the "Serbian" had to pay the amount, "Lasta" Belgrade, city power plants, "Termoelectrico"; if I were to sort it out, believe me, it would be a large list of companies that had to be sponsors of the Vuk investment. The one that you have now arrested, which is in custody, has in every way stalled this procedure, this Kljajevic. Even the judge in charge of the case had to retire, may Olga Milosevic. I don't have any objections about her work, everyone says she did it correctly. There is no project or contract for all these SPO investments. There is an idea solution to this academic who was president of the IO city of Belgrade. There was a lot of money washed there, and Velimir Ilic knows about it. Since he knows well, he should answer the question of who financed the trip from Struganic to Ravna Up. I have to say that even a useful permit has been obtained, it's all legalized there in the meantime, but it's long and it's still a threat, so the question really is, if it's all a donation thing, how is it now registered to the SPO in land books? Here, because of legalism, I'm asking a question, and here I'm calling this judge of the Trade Court, who's in charge of this case, let him decide as soon as possible, there's nothing to go wrong, all the skills, it's all over here. Let's get this over with as soon as possible. And let the truth be told, of course. Now, I've taken this example into account, how do you think this case would be resolved before arbitration in accordance with this law? Not at all. This dispute before arbitration would never be resolved. And what is in the light of this bill? It simply advertises a project to establish arbitration that would solve such disputed relations in a much more effective way than the court. You see, on this case, I can prove to you that this case would not be resolved in court or before arbitration. So, for the functioning of our judiciary, it's not the legal norm that's the problem, it's how the law works. To whom do these regulations in the area of justice apply primarily? First of all, the courts and the D.A.'s office. And how do courts and prosecutors work when they have this kind of domination like that done by Vuk Draskovic in an existing case before the Trade Court? Before arbitration, that would be impossible to resolve. Why? Well, they wouldn't be able to make a deal first of all about the arbiter. As soon as there's no agreement on the arbiter, he's going to court, and in court what's waiting for him, you see for yourself. Fourth year, and yet no first degree conviction. Why isn't there a first degree verdict? I'm guessing by stalling the SPO wants to shut down the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office is in crisis. Forty million dinars, it's probably over 150,000 euros, if my math is good. That would shut down any company, that's big money. So, something's been done and nothing's been paid. Now imagine if a physical face went to arbitration with a legal face. How'd that go? Worse. Thus, the adoption of this amendment essentially allows legal persons to resolve the dispute between them through arbitration, in accordance with some of the provisions of this law. Arbitration is recommended. What disputes? Where the profession and specialty should be expressed in the assessment of certain facts relevant to the judgment, and these facts may not be established by the ordinary court because of the lack of qualifications. The judge doesn't need to be qualified for construction, engineering, etc. He usually uses artists for these things, but if one of these disputes is presented before arbitration, and as arbitration judges are involved by people who have the right qualifications and know that technology, they can probably decide more fairly on a disputed relationship, if the parties agree to bring the dispute before arbitration and if they have agreed to arbitration in advance. Not when the dispute arose, but when they entered into a contractual relationship, one treaty clause predicted that the disputed relationship would be resolved through arbitration. They can even rewrite some of the provisions of this law on how to form an arbitrarily larger, arbitration court, how to choose adjudicators and how to make a decision. I suggest that this amendment be accepted, and then the law will be more serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26857	Peter Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26858	The interesting observation of Mr Krasic, but the amendment reads that the face of a person cannot be a participant or party in the arbitration process. Interesting observations, but this is for some other law, a little related to this arbitration law. Why? When I read this amendment to get a physical face out of the arbitration procedure, that it couldn't be a party to the arbitration process, I couldn't get the impression, the conclusion, however you want, why it's wanted. Is it just, as you like to say, a concept question, or has some catch, and I just heard the doorknob. You suggest that natural persons be declared legal persons, i.e. to be independent craftsmen, so that I call them conditional, those who deal with certain business activities in the form of trades, or, why not, and lawyers who, in that sense, are engaged in certain activities and have a lot of these professional professions, consider legal persons, which is totally conceptive to the legal system and established norms of the law, at least at this point, in Serbia. That would require changing everything, changing regulations, where an independent artisan, tailor, shoemaker, would have to be considered a legal person, and then he would have the right to participate in arbitration, according to you. That's the catch. The shoeman is not a legal person, and if we establish him as a legal person, then we will also find lawyers to be legal persons, then all those who deal with certain activities are legal persons, then there is no need to wipe out a legal person. Why? Then the farmer would be considered a legal person, because he was involved in some business activity, he gave some shopkeeper, he bought some goods, so he's a legal person. With this broadest interpretation, we would change the entire legal system and all applicable laws, so that virtually no changes would occur, because everyone could be influenced by the notion of a legal person, because they deal with someone, any kind of economic or similar activity that is exchanged with other persons. So the arbitration is imaginary and conceptually set up, you say, too wide. I don't know what to do; some law is too wide, some is too narrow, there's too much change, there's not enough change, and all the result is that it needs to be withdrawn or not adopted. I don't know, at least one law that's good, tolerable. All the laws proposed so far are either too tight or too wide, or there's too much change, too little change. The arbitration is based on a concept, set aside from that Law on Procedural Procedure, precisely for the basic reason, let me try a little unwarranted, but to simplify it to the limits – precisely in arbitration is the will of the parties, the participants in the procedure, the law. The parties to the arbitration proceedings shall choose both the procedure and the arbitration, the jurisdiction. Practically, the majority of what the parties are going to do is agreed by the parties, i.e. participants in the arbitration process, and accordingly, this force of arbitration, or the power of these arbitration tribunals themselves, which the parties themselves choose. Arbitraries don't have to be experts in a particular area. Arbitrators can also use the services of experts from certain areas; in other words, use the services of the expert. Arbitrators do not have to be legal experts, nor have any knowledge, can be laymen, do not have to be theoretically or in writing, because it is precisely the intensity of arbitration to allow parties to agree on which persons or one person in an adequate manner to resolve their dispute. Another sentence, I would not owe – in legal, social, economic, especially in economic life not only do legal persons or large corporations, participate and physically, equally between themselves or with legal persons, with economic operators. This is to the extent that it is practically impossible to separate an individual, i.e. a natural person and a legal person in their legal and economic relations. It is therefore understandable to assume that both legal and physical persons can participate in arbitration. Because, as I said, economic and economic relations are impossible to separate and separate and throw out legal persons, unless (you have rightly given a solution to that) unless we declare individuals legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26859	Mr. Krasic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26860	We in the SRS always take great risks when it is the afternoon session of the National Assembly, because then those who slept throughout the day wake up, so they use one word and give the wrong meaning of one word. Yeah, you can sleep free at night, that's not the problem. Our main observation is that natural persons are not allowed to negotiate arbitration. Why? Because there are other means that they can calmly settle some dispute. I must warn: thanks to this government, the peasants had to register and receive an account through which they would operate; thanks to this government in the Business Register, entrepreneurs are also registered, and thanks to some legal principles, entrepreneurs, long ago, when they enter into business relations, have legal personality status. If we didn't have legal status, we wouldn't have a jury account. But what to do is, in the afternoon, you know, there's a lot of things coming out of this pay phone and it's challenging everything and everything. It's said to be a concept disagreement, some law bothers radicals because it's too wide and some too narrow. I can't understand that dibidus. Yesterday we had a situation to hear in the National Assembly that the MP who just said so had submitted the most amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I have not disputed his right to submit amendments and to amend the bill made by his party. I'm just commending it. Apparently, he had that code too, not wide enough or too tight yesterday. That's his problem, I don't care at all. Its right to submit an amendment, if it is a good amendment, why not also vote in favour of the amendment if it is in the function of improving the law. I just have to warn you of one thing: the state is sovereign, because it has power. Over what? Over your citizens. And she's guaranteed for her citizens. If we were to put every disputed relationship between a natural person, not a craftsman, an ordinary man from some sale relationship, to solve some arbitration... It's nice that you've opened this topic, because they'll have a chance for citizens to hear that you want NGOs to turn it into arbitration institutions. You'll especially explain that professionally. I was able to provoke you to come out at last on the moon, to let the citizens hear what anyone stands for and that's why someone stands for something. In order to preserve this sovereignty and evidence, it would not be good and it would not be in line with the Constitution that such disputed relations go to arbitration, and we will continue to show what can be achieved by the arbitration agreement and that the disputed relationship is reportedly resolved before arbitration and that a regulation, law, constitution, is in place. (President: Time.) We've just introduced you to the subject, and now we're going to delete and show you from member to member where your hooks are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26861	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) Before moving to the next amendment and pursuant to Article 85(1) and (5) Rules of Procedure, we would work today by discussing in detail the item of the agenda that will be discussed at 1800 hours, so we would extend the debate until further notice, by limiting to 20.00 hours, due to the game. So, not until the debate is over, but by 20.00 hours for that spot that's at 6:00. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26862	Are the principles of this House strange? We really don't need a Rules of Procedure. Every day we set up some new hours, sometimes until midnight, and sometimes when the game's only up to 20 hours, then we don't work for three days. A really very interesting group. When we talked in principle about the Arbitrage Law proposal, we made some of our views, and then we communicated well with the minister, so I'm glad the minister is here with us again, because I didn't think he was coming. I thought that's why, Minister, you hired some pi-ar colleagues from this parliamentary group who usually only work like this from 16:00 to 1800 hours, when the Assembly is most watched, they say. So when you told us about the bill, you said that this law must and should be passed because the law on litigation is bad. Then we reminded you that we have submitted amendments to the draft law on litigation and that precisely because our amendments are not accepted we have this situation that you were talking about. Then one of the colleagues mentioned "chosen" courts instead of "chosen" courts. I then said that what was regulated in the Law on the Prosecution of the Croatian Ustasha Novost. Then today I hear from that same colleague that he has something on Krasic's amendment has an impression. It seems to me to be some kind of Croatian Ustasha talk. Then I find it very interesting... Not you ministers, buddy, not you. Then I find it very interesting, and now perhaps you, Minister, know where this law really comes from, or the bill is prescribed, because I have a lot of strange expressions in this text. The amendment I have made concerns Article 6. The second position of this Article 6 provides that permanent arbitration institutions may establish chambers of commerce, professional and professional associations, associations of citizens in accordance with their founding act and this law, if that is in accordance with their performance. I have suggested that we delete citizens' associations as excessive in this text on permanent arbitration, because we think it is inappropriate to allow citizens' associations to establish permanent arbitration institutions. Moreover, it would not be known where permanent arbitration institutions are registered and what they actually represent. Coli Krasic was just talking about it, until you came, that we wanted to stop you, or instruct you not to do it. These associations of citizens who are anti-Serbs and who are having a devastating effect on Serbia's territory, these are any NGOs and various Canadians, Biserko etc., we thought it would be good if they were excluded from this law, because there are indeed plenty of them at every step and corner. Now they are, say, Biserko, Vuco, Kandic, very engaged in the discovery of Ratko Mladic. Do we need them to create legal conditions for all their stupid and insane actions in Serbia? Although I understand Kandićka, both Biserko and Biljana Kovacevic, etc., I understand why they are chasing Ratko Mladic, he is a really nice man, but I don't know what you, Minister, and your colleagues, instead of your work, are talking at every conference about what is not in your jurisdiction, which you care so much about finding Ratko Mladic. You must be, God forbid, away from... When you spoke of this bill, you said that this law came about, among other things, because of the poor work of trade courts. Of course, I agree there's a lot of bad in the work of trade courts. Not all judges are bad, not all are corrupt. We are convinced that there are many more honorable and professional judges than those who have been the reason to pass this law because of their poor work and corruption. Just before I went out, I met a woman who told me she was an electrician and she was carrying a letter that she delivered to the MPs of the Assembly; she asked me to meet her and she said she had delivered it to our MP group, but we haven't got it yet. They're signing "Electrotechne" workers. They speak, of course, of the Belgrade Commercial Court that prevented the removal of illegal registration under the official duty of Dugic Darinka in the court register. It's a director who was enrolled in an illegal and illegal manner. It was done by Goran Kljajevic and "Electrotechna" now is probably in the phase of the study during the stay in Goran Kljajevic's custody, but I'll just read a few things from here to you. In order to extend and carry out a new illegal enrolment with the assistance of individual judges, it has made up a false decision by the managing authority. The managing authority's session never took place, but of course it did not matter, nor was it appropriate for the Trade Court, Goran Kljajevic and his other judges from the criminal yellow company, because he is also from the company. It is further said that the company was formed without the knowledge of the legal director general, the legal assembly and the board of directors and most of the employees of the company Elektrotechna. The company was registered by Judge Ivanka Kozic-Knezevic, without any workers, without sharing obligations etc. Now, what goes on at Elektrotechny is the most painful thing. The Trade Court, by resolution 720, deletes, by official duty, the entry into the court register of the establishment of the company "Electrotechna kommerc" DOO, following complaints v.d. The director of Mira Stojiljković, who is not, and the stillborn is kept alive until the winding-up of the liquidation process based on the unpaid 242,000 dinars of the Tax Administration and the JKP "water and sewerage" of 256,000 dinars and some debt to the founder who is not known to the workers. The liquidation company is now being sold for 4.520,000 euros, and the actual market value is 25m euros. At the same time, in the process of establishing ownership of the immovable property run by the court – a department store, in Knez Mihailovo, in a strange way loses a thousand square meters, some alignments are made between bankruptcy managers, "Electrotechne komerc" DOO, "Centroexport" and "Electrotechna" loses in these proceedings of the court store which was 35 years old and which is 90 meters square, and is located in Čika Ljubino Street 3 - 5, means in the center. He loses the complete yard that is registered in favour of the "Centroexport", whose buyer is the company Myron Sales from Budapest, and one of the co-owners is Zoran Janjusevic. The new owner of the department store was rewarded by not showing up in the basement area. They are recognised as the owner of a private company of the MPC, although there was a lease agreement between the MPC and the Elektrotechn company from 14 January 2000, and in Article 6 of the contract, the tenant will first obtain written consent from the tenant. For the works carried out by the tenant, the rights to claim compensation from the tenant shall be waived. Why did I read this, Minister? First for the public, second, for the malversions that are happening, thirdly, to help the employees of Elektrotechne finally get to what they've been creating for years, and fourthly, in your case most important, to ask you, yesterday a colleague from your MP group here asked one of us to swear that you are not prepared to fight crime. I then went out and swore here to swear and to claim that the government of Vojislav Kostunica and this assembly majority and part of the judicial authority that is under your authority are not directly prepared and unable to fight crime. Now I ask you, Minister, are you ready to promise from this pay phone to the citizens of Serbia that if your bill on arbitration is passed, there will be no more cases like "Electrotechne" and what is unfortunately many in Serbia? I realized from what you suggested in the bill and from what you said here that, among other things, it was your intention and that it was your goal. I warn you that neither this law nor any law can solve in such conditions nor a matter of crime, nor a question of corruption, because this problem stems from the top of the government. You know that there are ministers in your government who belong to that group, that there were also in the previous government of Zoran Zivkovic, of course also in the government of Zoran Djindjic, because it is a crucible of all elected ministers and, of course, cannot be expected to be different. So, first of all, about this amendment, I suggest that we at least prevent these Kandic women, Biserko and others from taking part in these arbitrations, accept the amendment, and secondly, I ask you to tell the citizens of Serbia what will concretely pass this law from the day on which it comes into force and whether we will finally say goodbye to these things and that the citizens of Serbia finally get at least some law from which they will say -- but faith to this government, here is a law that means something to us in life. Because all the laws you've passed so far really have nothing to do with reality or the better life of Serbian citizens. It's all the laws that you're doing in all the directives. Of course, I understand that, too, but I don't understand why you don't accept what Angela Merkel has told you – that there is no enlargement of the European Union, you have painted for nothing, you have brought the laws in line with the needs of Serbia and our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26863	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26864	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no possible controversy here, and there is not even a need for leprosy, because honourable fellow MPs speak least of the law on the agenda and even less of the amendments. I listened very carefully. No word has been spoken of about the amendment. There is another thing: a respected fellow MP, an excellent legal expert, in the absence of arguments is used with slanders and insults, mentions some morning sleep, afternoon awakenings or allegedly a huge number of amendments by Peter Cvetkovic as proof that some previous law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, is allegedly not good. He's not responding to the truth again, and I don't know why an esteemed colleague, a kind of lawyer, is used in false ways. Let him use his arguments, he can do it and he does it well. Because I have submitted four or five amendments to the 555 members of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Is that a lot? It's an argument used here completely inappropriately, and now it's on the agenda of the arbitration law. Also, Miss Natasa Jovanovic can come out and talk about this law, about amendments, but I don't think it's nice of a lady to throw it away, and I'll also allow Mrs Verici, and she's already talked about these amendments. I would only ask you to use the arguments, because slanders and falsehoods only prove that the bill is good and that amendments have a concept, but not a concept of improving the law or removing possible failures, but a concept of breaking the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26865	There's as many replicas as you like, first Mr. Krasic, replica, then Mrs. Radeta, then Ms. Jovanovic after the amendment, next. I follow everything, there won't be any problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26866	All I have to do is remove one clue, it's really a problem this afternoon here in the Assembly, if it's a sound problem, if it's a lighting problem, but you've seen for yourself that it's being demonstrated here, it's clearly showing. Mrs Radeta has submitted an amendment and has asked for two words to be thrown out in the position of Article 6(2) – the Association of Citizens. To make it clear to the public, to wake up those who are monitoring this transmission: permanent arbitration institutions can set up chambers of commerce (support), professional and professional associations (support), citizens' associations (do not support). It is not hard to be tortured by the head and to understand certain things, because Biserko has a citizens' association, Kandićka has an association of citizens, hunters have an association of citizens, beekeepers have an association of citizens, these doves being chased by Vukkovic have an association of citizens. How does the Energy Project and the Energy Invest ask for the association of citizens headed by Vojin Dimitrijevic to resolve a disputed relationship? Then what do we need a state for, then, is a court, for which you make, for which you pass a law on arbitration, for the sake of order, or for some of your friends, sponsors to become arbitration judges? And when you put it in context with Article 11, where you provide the possibility that during the dispute the parties contract arbitration, then two large companies, why didn't the "Mobtel" and the state arrange arbitration with Natasha Kandic? It wouldn't surprise me in the next phase if she made her permanent arbitration commission, or the institution and you brought your dispute out there. Not necessarily the state, they can do two companies; here, Janjusevic and Kolesar, here's Hamovic and Djilas sue in front of the Trade Court and then they say – let's have a dispute, and where we're going to go to Vojin Dimitrijevic or Natasa Kandic to resolve the disputed relationship. Where there's a state, you're playing the state with this regulation; in addition to destroying the state, destroying the judicial system. Please, this isn't hard to understand, the lighting's good, and as I see it, the speakers are working.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26867	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26868	Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, the purpose of this law is to apply offices to those rights which holders or holders of those rights can freely dispose of, perhaps even give them. Therefore, if I can freely exercise my right and if I trust a man that he will neither by his grandmother nor by his uncles to rule my dispute over my right, whether he exists or doesn't exist, or who has more or less rights, with someone else, it falls within the sphere of freedom that a democratic state gives me. So if you're making it impossible for me to, in this way, by means of an arbitration court, have my own right, as I can give up my claim and before a litigation court if I want to, if it's my right, and as a corporate director, I can't, because then I represent an enterprise, someone else's property, and it's not my property; if it's my own property, I can do what I want with it. In that sense, whoever wants to trust the solution to his property issue, Natashi Kandic, will be pleased with it, why would you condemn him, because he has the right to give Mrs. Biserko his arbitration, according to the right of which he has the freedom to decide and to dispose and to do whatever she wants. In that sense, of course, we didn't like NGOs and human rights fighters to organise arbitration, but we thought that law professors could make associations of citizens and thus deal with arbitration as complementary work. So it's not just the associations of citizens that are in your eyes and that you talk about all the time, because there are associations of other people. Ten of you from a radical party can organize arbitration, so when you argue that your internal disputes are resolved before that arbitration. These are also your rights, which you feel free to do. It's a concept of arbitration, and you don't need to say here, you know, that arbitration will solve crime in society. This has nothing to do with crime, because this is about property rights that are being resolved, it's about free will for people to have these rights and you can't limit the rights of people to have their own rights. Mrs. Veronica Radeta mentioned the word crime, which is why I'm talking. As soon as I'm out, I'm just gonna give one warning to the general public to Serbia and to all those who plan to organise arbitration. Now we have a chance to form, on a healthy basis, one way to resolve property disputes in our society. It now depends solely on ourselves, on the quality of the people involved in this process, on their personal honesty, integrity and expertise how much arbitration as a legal institute will build authority in our society. If we allow this institute at the very beginning of its existence (because we have so far had international arbitration, but as one institute of internal law to resolve internal disputes), if it sells the verdict, if corruption takes place, we have bankrupted the entire project at the very beginning. That's why I appeal to anyone who thinks or wants to get involved and organises arbitration to really take care of the integrity, the honesty of the people involved, so that one serious social project doesn't go bankrupt at the very beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26869	I thank you, Minister. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26870	Mr. Angelkovic, you should follow the people who appear and speak for this speaker, whether they are ministers or MPs, and should have warned the minister that there are no deputies of a radical party in this House. There is a large group of 80 MPs here and these are MPs of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26871	I'm not the reviewer, I'm the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26872	You need to know who he's talking to. Furthermore, you said MPs could argue in some parties and form associations, etc. For your information, Minister, the SRS has one association of citizens, which is the Defence Committee of Vojislav Seselj. Thank you for asking, hundreds of thousands of citizens are members of that association. When you mentioned that someone could possibly argue, I don't know if you meant your Obren Joksimovic or those of yours in G17, G16, what they're called, I don't know exactly what you meant. I suggest you avoid such insinuations, Mr. Minister. Your theme is just this bill. The parivodić is "yellow," but he was inserted here. I know that. As for a colleague who didn't wait for the moon to ask him a few things he'd gone through here, I feel free to say, he called Krasic earlier on for coffee, but he went for a brandy, because it's obvious that he's eating it, a colleague here said I was taking some slander and fiction into this law. Here, I'm going to publicly cross myself. I've heard it all, but that the law can be slandered, that's really the first time I've heard it from someone who's a lawyer. This fellow who tried to say that I did not speak about the amendment did not hear, of course, when I said that Article 6(2) should delete citizens' associations and mention some concrete examples etc. Of course, I'm not saying this for him, I'm saying this for the public. Then this colleague here tries to explain why he's going out to talk about amendments, and then he says he filed five amendments to the Law on Prosecution, and yesterday he was talking about criminal proceedings, and in three sentences twice, three times criminal proceedings. Poor man, he doesn't know what we talked about yesterday, but it seems to me, nothing we've talked about today, he's just fulfilling the latest order of the parliamentary group to come out and try to break it down with the MPs of the SRS on these amendments. Of course, we don't mind. On the contrary, it would be even better to explain the amendments if you were to argue with us like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26873	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 6? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26874	Mr. Angelkovic, if I were a speaker on Radio "S", I'd be running out of time right now, and here I have to wait 10 seconds to turn on my microphone. (President: Miss Jovanovic, I will give you another 50 seconds. So, she asked her colleague, Radeta, where is this "expensive" who says we're slandering the law. I sent him to go see if everything in Grdelica was okay, because Velya's fixing the way, to see when these papers will be completed, because he obviously has nothing to say as a criticism to us MPs, which the minister knows we're serious people and we're writing serious amendments. That's exactly how this amendment of mine is to Article 7. It's a bill of law. You should have accepted it, Mr. Minister, because you yourself, as a university professor, know that we have competent courts in the country, and we don't have a state court. So it's possible that it's a termology that exists in the West, in America, maybe the law there is written, so you've translated it so integrally, but we have a competent court. If you said "state," then we have some nonstate. We don't have private courts. However, there are some on the political scene of Serbia, such as those from the Democratic Party, who would like to establish some of their own private courts. As such, they were appointed by the presidents of the courts, and so they acted during the "Sabbe" action, so when they introduced an anti-constitutional state of emergency, they would do so day and day, but they were poor and powerless, because they absolutely no longer have any resistance in the people, to judge everyone, especially those of us who are willing to stamp out all the misdemeanors, all the robberies and thefts committed by those from the top of the Democratic Party. If you're really "yellow," what Radeta said, and if you're from the DS or you lean on them, colleague Parivodić, just to look back, to give you a report from the Privatisation Committee, what Kljajevic and the group were doing, so Janjusevic, so Kolesar, I simply can't believe that you tend to that side. Isn't that correct? Your smile tells me everything, with the need for Mr. Angelkovic to warn you that you may be allowed to laugh, and the assistant, this boy, the flight attendant next to you, who laughs from day one at everything and everything, to learn something, to behave seriously and to follow what's going on here. So you need to fix it. Our understanding of the intention to pass an arbitration law... We could say that the area worked pretty well in situations where the arbitration councils were led by people who wanted to decide correctly in procedures between economic operators, but I don't know now, perhaps you know, as a minister and as someone whose obligation is to follow it all, is Mr Vasiljevic still at the head of the arbitration commission at the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? You probably know that, don't you? It is very important who is at the head of the arbitration council because if we are talking about the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, it is all, just not it. It's an institution completely colored with this schizophrenic yellow color. The arrival of former Minister of Trade Milosavljevic and his role in the Chamber of Commerce is nothing more than an attempt to promote the failed and devastating policies of the Democratic Party. Boy, if you're not feeling well, have a glass of water. This is not a ridiculous Olympics, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Either to warn you of the chairman or the minister who brought you here for the handle, because other than being dressed inappropriately, without a tie, you behave inappropriately and you never, nor an assistant assistant assistant, can be, let alone sit there next to the minister. As far as these seemingly linguistic errors and corrections are concerned, we think she's okay because we only know the court. I say, I doubt it, because in all international disputes, whose jurisdiction was the jurisdiction of the International Court of Arbitration in Paris, our businessmen were also expected to be resolved in their favour by the tails of the former state and those of the large economy, including these slaves of Yugoslavia, or the SCG. You may have the intention, it is obvious by proposing this law, that in a regulatory sense this matter should be resolved, but we, Mr. Parivodic, have a very bad business environment, a mafia business environment, and you know it very well. Until one radical cut is made, and that will be done by Serbian radicals, not just radicals, there are no... Usually those from the West, seeking support in the Democratic Party and so on. The democratic bloc, as something ugly is trying to say -- they're radical. No, we're the best Serbia has and we're Serbian radicals. We really intend to create, with the application of these laws, with these corrections that we have made, one framework for normal business and some economic shift. We don't see from all these unexplained cases, and those who are just waiting to get rid of it, that that's what's going to happen. Here, if it is the Arbitral Commission, or greater at the level of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, not only because it is shown as such -- incompetent, incompetent function, many malversions have dragged during Milosavljevic, and in that constitution it somehow surfaced, with the support of the lobby, as president of the Chamber of Commerce. Now the question is whether such people, such as certain Mr Vasiljevic, are engaged there; whether people for whom there is an absolutely pure crystalline biography can do their job there without pressure and without blackmailing those of the DS. I simply don't believe it, because I know that so far all the competent courts have done so, which is why it should stand not in the state but in the jurisdiction. In Trgovinski, you understand that it was only the tip of the iceberg, as far as Kljajevic and the family are concerned and as far as the courts in Serbia are concerned, the workers were the most injured and those economic operators who might have wanted to find a solution and settle the dispute, but apparently the state had no hearing about all this. I remember that very difficult time, the times of unremembered economic sanctions, when the people were badly injured under bombs and because of the inability to operate freely, as the state was very effective, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to Serbian radicals, resolved certain disputes. In particular, when it comes to debts and disputed agreements between certain social enterprises at the time, many were privatised in the meantime, they went into a duress for several hundred euros, so sugars, cements for two or three euros each. In normal and orderly states, where normal market inclusion exists, it is also normal for people to expect that if a slow choice of arbiter occurs that it will be effectively resolved and that the party that is damaged and which, as such, appears to settle its debts and try to implement the contract. Here in this environment, the way it is, just the establishment of these arbitration bodies, with a really real remark from a colleague of Radeta that they could not possibly be citizens' associations... You know, you're all covered by that they only have a declaratively defined performance and they have their founding act, they have a list of how many there are, etc. That's not enough. We are in all the laws so far where something like this has appeared, as was the case with the Labour Act where, as a representative association of entrepreneurs, what is most likely headed by Bogoljub Karic... It turns out that this man was the leader, still he was, one of the tycoon dynastys, Karic, in our country; he appeared everywhere, and went to Ustasha Mesic, so I don't know where else, so in London, so here, there, he received plaques, the most successful businessman. Now such individuals will appear, these by the evil known, those who really only have the worst opinion of our people and the state, such as those mentioned, cannot even mention their name, these Kandic women, Biserko and others, but also all other associations and diverse, which should not by law be, simply do not belong here. I think it is okay for you to accept the amendment that I have submitted because our practice and our positive legislation know only the term – the court responsible. So that's why it's been filed, with all the things I've used to tell you what our basic grudge is to the law, and not only that, but because of the fear that nothing more important can change by law itself. As long as the head of state is not a determined, strong, energetic man, we think that as such, the future prime minister, Mr Nikolic, will be, until he goes into a decisive fight with crime and corruption, it cannot happen. Recently, within the SRS delegation led by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, I was in the Russian Federation. There we participated in the World Congress of Patriot Party. Representatives were the ones who came from the world's most human countries, where the economy is highly developed, the market is perfectly functioning and is in expansion, especially in China. We asked our hosts (here, I really haven't been there for a few years, so now I was there during Easter) how it is possible to contain crime and corruption in such a short time. The answer was simple – the arrival of Vladimir Putin and the determination of the government and each minister to deal with the problem and that crime, especially tycoons, are found where they belong, is very easy to solve. There will be every political representative, regardless of whether he is in opposition, and it is convincing, therefore, that the centre of the gathering of all these party forces led by Mr Putin, all will tell you that this is the greatest contribution and greatest achievement in one country, which has also been burdened with all these problems like us right now. In order for that to happen, we really need to do something about it. Like this, from story to story... A few days ago, we in Republika Srpska were following the news on their national television, Hamovic spread out, telling if he talks, and how he's going to collect the electricity price again, and this, and that. Well, he just got supposedly a puck from that obsessing about Paddy Ashdown, and nothing, ate the donkey wolf, still doing what he wanted. We do not have a report today on the abuses of Hamovic and Lazarevic and on the operation of the power mafia. That's why the law isn't good, it takes a lot more determination, just like that, to regulate things and to make the country move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26875	I thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic, you've had plenty of time, quite enough. You've had two more minutes. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 7? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Milan Stevović has the word and then Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26876	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in a reasoned discussion in principle and on the details of the SRS MPs, have really given a very constructive discussion, which we must say really has grounds, given that our economic system has not matured to pass such a law and that such a law of arbitration can be produced in its absolute opposite. For these reasons, I also submitted an amendment to Article 11 and proposed that the member be deleted, and this Article 11 concerns the subsequent arbitration agreement. First of all, let's say that there are certain types of bonds that certain economic operators are involved in and, of course, the entities of such a bond can negotiate arbitration. If they agree, it's so-called. Their consent will and that's when the contractual will approaches the consensus, which is that in a possible dispute, it is adjudicated. However, this and this Article 11 stipulates that arbitration can also be agreed afterwards, which we of the SRS consider absolutely unacceptable. Arbitration can only be agreed, agreed, predicted and agreed before a dispute arises before a party can address the protection of the court. As provided for in Article 11 here, this would mean that in certain cases this arbitration may be later negotiated. I must say, very often in these kinds of disputes, there may also be abuse and that not all parties to contractual relations are entirely equal. The party that at first feels that it is not equal will tend to make these arbitration contracts and then come to the conclusion of this arbitration, which I find absolutely unacceptable in our current legal system. So if this article remains 11, it will contribute that there is one general legal uncertainty, when, as well as in what way. However, if there are certain types of bonds that need to be clear, precise, deciable, then there is no reason for it to be known that arbitration arbitration is not said in the bond itself. For these reasons, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment and I suggest that article 11 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26877	Thank you, Mr. Stevovic. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26878	We've submitted an amendment to Article 11, and we're looking for his expropriation. Why? We do not accept that if there has already been a dispute and if it is brought to court, even the word of the court is incorrectly used here, then they can subsequently agree on arbitration and exclude the jurisdiction of the competent state authority and go to Kandićka or the association of the lawyers of Mr. Minister, who thinks to do so, because it is the most obvious act of law and law. We support what gives this law the opportunity to enter into a contractual relationship of contracts and how to resolve a possible dispute through arbitration, and we accept that. But when the dispute arose, when one of the parties asked for a dispute to be settled before the court, that the court proceedings be terminated, because the prosecutor and the defendants, once the participants in one contractual relationship, subsequently reached an agreement to transfer to some arbitration to resolve it, is a classic example of the law and law enforcement, which suggests that they want to have the opposite of Article 3 before arbitration. Law on litigation. One more thing that hasn't just been spoken of. In Article 7, you used the words – State court (hereinafter referred to as the Court of Justice). I think you need to know that there is an international standard guaranteeing the independence and independence of judges and courts, and in that international act, it says that only the relevant state body, which is in accordance with the law, can be called the court's jurisdiction. If you say "state court" in article 7, then there's a private court. Under the name of the court, there may be a disciplinary court, etc., but it is simply incomprehensible that you did not accept the amendment by Natasha Jovanovic, who wrote that the words "state court" are replaced by the words "the court of jurisdiction". The competent court shall be the one whose jurisdiction is laid down by the Law on the Regulation of Courts. You can't say "state court." Only the word "judgment" can be used for what stems from a regulation establishing the jurisdiction of a judicial state authority, and it is called a court. He can be municipal, and county, and so on, they're all state. When you say state, you associate that there's some private, or some secret, or who knows what. I understand that you are vehemently rejecting all amendments to the SRS, but that amendment where the "state court" is changed to "judgment court", it is a completely acceptable amendment, because this text is improving. Another of our principle differences with this concept of yours is that we believe that arbitration can only be negotiated before a dispute arises and cannot be later negotiated, since the parties involved in a business relationship have addressed the competent court to resolve a dispute. If you allow the prosecutor and the defendant in the stage of preparation of the main debate or in the main debate to tell the judge – please, we will bring this to the arbitration, then you are practically questioning the jurisdiction of the state, the court, and the court is obliged to apply the law to the disputed relationship. What Mr. Stevovic tried to explain to you, this is primarily about bonds. There's really parties free to make their demands and there's you right. Someone can give, burn, do whatever they want, feel free, just that his will is free, that he's not under forced threat, etc. But if an act has already been written initiating a case before the court, then there is no act that can exclude the court's jurisdiction in resolving the disputed relationship. If that's how you think you're going to make it possible to establish arbitration as a way to resolve a disputed relationship, then you're going to drag a large door to get the prosecutor and the defendants, I can tell you very specifically, they've entered some disputed, some disputed... Here, I'll give you one example. I don't want to mention the number of cases, or what the participants are called in that dispute. There was a dispute between two construction companies. One company was the main contractor and another was the contractor. Since you know these accounting situations there to break up with each other about what they're looking for, who owes to whom, etc., the performer appears to have a claim to the subcontractor. Of course, he sues a subcontractor in front of a trade court here in Belgrade. In the course of the dispute as the defendant, the subcontractor gives the complaint, because he too has some claim about the location and the job. The conditions have been met to bring the procedure together and to address both the case and the case, since both acts are independent, etc. What happened in the meantime? These are the Kljajevics who got him, so I don't tell you how, in a carad. The ultimate story of all this is that the suit was denied, and in the meantime, evidence came out where the claim based on the prosecution was fully established. In such a relationship is a possible situation, you probably didn't have it in mind, that the two litigators who are in court at some "en" hearing conclude that their relationship is too controversial, not so much from the point of view of their individual interests in which they can probably freely dispose, but from the point of view of the congent norms of a regulation that imposes some behavior. In particular, if the claim is made, it would be obliged to pay some tax, etc. On this basis, it can subsequently be established that he did not pay the tax, etc. They say – you know what, Djoko, we'll get hurt if we do this job through court; then you and I will be obliged to pay for it, and we haven't paid for it, so Dinkic will come with those officers who have guns, and they'll finish the job, and we'll shut down both of them. Let us in the course of this dispute tell the judge – judge, here is the agreement that we do not ask that this issue be resolved by the Trade Court and we think it will be much more effective for Natasa Kandic. And she's going to get that possibility based on article 6. It's a bill of law. NGOs continue to be held as an association of citizens. I guess you know, that's how they sign up. The concept of the Citizens' Association is too wide, and even these professional associations are treated many times as an association of citizens. Then they go to Natasa Kandic, there they make anything; in the end, and they don't get into a situation, they don't need to verify that decision, they agreed there. There is no longer a disputed relationship, the lawsuit is blocked, it is believed to have been withdrawn. They've made good peace, and where's the state, where's the commitment to the state? Will the state see how it's done? Even if they appear in the case of any inspection control, and they say – please, we solved it, look, there is a decision of a permanent arbitration institution. If this provision remains, it will be used for abuse of rights. You've probably forgotten that even in the existing Law on Prosecution there's a proper provision, it's always been there, Article 3. The law, which says the court under official duty, must keep an eye on whether the availability of litigation parties is contrary to mandatory regulations, etc. In this way, you open the space to invite a member to the 11th full for a reason. The draft law and the agreement they reached under Article 11 of this Law, which means that a court case is closed before a competent court. He's blocking himself, and they're going there and they're finishing this job that needs to be solved. That's the danger you somehow had to take care of. I have one more thing to tell you, this was supposed to be a little more restrictive. We have only in this sense submitted an amendment to that article that allows even natural persons and we think about legal persons who need to resolve their relationship that way, because they enter into these mutual relationships. This is supposed to be a court of law, not a state court. It's already a copy thing, as I see it. Thirdly, there is no need for permanent arbitration institutions to be formed by the internal legal acts of these associations of citizens, etc. If you go so wide, the serious companies would rather go to negotiate and negotiate and ask for the issue to be resolved with Natasa Kandic. What some MPs of the ruling parties didn't want to understand at the beginning of this debate – arbitration only makes sense in those specific things, where arbitration judges besides that, people say, senses of justice and legality, possess special expertise and specific knowledge, on which they can best understand what is the dispute between those persons. It used to be called in practice – which are able to apply the horrors. A large number of Uzans are not in the law, but they are in the professional and specialist, if I may say so, the regulations, where there are standards for certain things. It's very difficult for a time for a judge, even through experts and experts, to assess a very specific matter. I can tell you honestly, I don't believe that 1% of judges in Serbia, if you take the best judges, say, could judge in some case where there's a need to protect the copyright of the person who did something on the computer. (President: Time.) You know what, this is still an exception. You don't need to make a rule out of arbitration. When you set it wide, then that exception has an infallible tendency to become a rule, and when it becomes a rule then we don't need courts or laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26879	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26880	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment relating to Article 12. The bill was detailed by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milan Stevovic. It is not acceptable, according to the SRS, that arbitration can be opened and that the case can be found before the competent court at the same time. Therefore, agreements can be concluded and the parties have their own will. If any of the parties have already entered the court door, it's already a matter of dispute. So, the thing is controversial. If it is a dispute that has already begun and means that it has been initiated before the competent court, in that case any subsequent agreement would be absolutely unnecessary and groundless. The agreement could be if the parties agreed and if the parties declared that one of the parties filed a lawsuit with the court and the party withdrew the suit and the claim, which was agreed by the other party in the dispute. So, since it's about bond relations, the legal relationship involves two entities, two persons. In that case, a subsequent agreement could be concluded. If the dispute took place, the case brought before the competent court, until the issue of the case and the appeal was resolved, any agreement before the arbitration would not be comprehensive. It doesn't make sense to close the deal now. What will they agree on later? That can only be agreed in court. Therefore, one initial act before one entity, before the court on the basis of the action, before the arbitration of an appropriate formal legal act, but one other must exclude. In that case, there is room if the parties agree to withdraw the suit and resolve the issue and proceed with the agreement, but the issue of a moral agreement continues. So who will appreciate the morality of the agreement? Can the parties in arbitration conclude any agreement? Does the parties, if they have a dispute that needs to be resolved by the competent state authority, ie. The competent court, they can also have a request and an agreement that would look like - we will conclude an agreement, but to hide the intentions; we will conclude a fictitious agreement, a simulated legal work that does not correspond to the true will and legal interest will not answer. Let's say that you conclude an agreement - we agreed in four eyes if you pay that and that political party to touch and fund it. The other day I heard on a local level that there was a meeting of the municipal board of a political party. At the meeting of the political party, a member of the committee, when it was a matter of somebody's status, said -- you don't know what that man gave for that party and that party, how many millions he gave for that party. Are we going with such immoral agreements to go to arbitration? I'm not gonna name it, it's not hot, but I can say this is true and I own the record of that political party. Now the matter is truly delicate, whether the parties can have any agreement and appeal request. The Serbian Radical Party believes there is no room for a subsequent agreement if the dispute before the court is on the move. Until the dispute is brought before the competent court, that is, the party's agreement can be signed. That is why I believe, Mr. Minister, that this amendment is truly justified and that there is room for you to adopt it. However, we will have problems in practice. So, here it doesn't demarcate purely and to the end, there's no clear distinction between arbitration and court. You have two acts to move with, you have them parallelly seduced by both authorities, but the previous question is whose lawsuit, or formal law act came first and before which authority. The previous question is to resolve this particular case, and only then can we talk later to conclude the agreements, to postpone, to postpone the time of execution and to determine all that is permitted under the Law on Bond Relations, and also to be allowed under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26881	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26882	I thank you for your exhaustive discussion. As for the amendments you have submitted to Article 5(2) which you wish to exclude individuals from the possibility of using arbitration, I know many cases that the brother and sister have been judged for 10 or 15 years around the inheritance. Why should we be harassed for so long? Everyone knows at least one such case. The essence of arbitration is in the belief that is contained in the arbiter. If we trust an arbiter more than a court that drags me into a ten-year dispute, the court drags you in and how, rather than stalling the court, then I trust a smart arbiter an individual or three to settle my dispute within three weeks, than we all die until that judge settles a concrete dispute. That's why I think that I don't need to make it impossible for individuals to have such a privilege not to live their lives in processes, but to live their lives normally, and that their relationships, their conflicts of property, can quickly resolve. As for the debate on Article 7, whether it will be a state or jurisdictional court, it is a very interesting topic. The dilemma was whether we're going to call it arbitration, an arbitration panel of an individual, three arbiters, five or so, if we're going to call it arbitration, an arbitration court or an arbitration tribunal. It was just a termological debate. The UNCITRAL Act calls it the arbitration tribunal. Because of this tribunal, which is very unpopular in the Serbian people, we felt it was inappropriate to say the tribunal, but the meaning of the word of the tribunal in French and English is actually the court. It's synonym for court. That's why we bowed to the expression - the arbitration court. Since we have already introduced that term into the law, so that we can clearly disseminating the state court or the court of jurisdiction from the arbitration court, that's why we have apostrophe in one place and that's what the whole story is about. For the sake of clarity, we kept this term "state." It wouldn't be a big deal if we said "supervisory," it would be understandable, but this is why we're achieving an even stronger distinction that we want to achieve and thus better clarity of the law, and that's why we reject the amendment. As regards the subsequent agreement, as follows: firstly, in a litigation proceedings, the court has no obligation to obtain other evidence than those which the parties in the proceedings offer voluntarily to the court in favour of their claim. Therefore, there is no principle of inquisitivity in the litigation procedure, the examination of the truth by official duty, as it already exists in criminal proceedings. My essential question is this: what is the public interest of the State to continue the proceedings if the parties who have voluntarily initiated the proceedings can settle it whenever they want to end the proceedings and if these parties agree to the joint will, if one party can withdraw the suit with the consent of the other party (because it is a condition for withdrawing the case, when the other party is involved in the proceedings from that moment on, it is necessary for its consent to withdraw the case), and if I can, as a defendant, freely accept the claim of 100% and if I have all these freedoms and if the prosecutor could not initiate the dispute at all and that this does not occur at all, in which case the court should be held in litigation proceedings and that one proceedings against the will of the parties that have more confidence in the arbitration of the dispute, but in that court which gives confidence. So what's the abstract situation now? You have listed one situation, but when you are questioned law violations by definition a litigation procedure is not an appropriate forum for that examination. There are police, a criminal court, there are financial police, there are various inspections that need to question illegality in the conduct of some natural or legal persons. It's not a litigation. Given the possibility of acknowledging the claim, withdrawing the suit, settling, your proposal is fully decommissioned from the litigation system. That's why I refuse that amendment. Article 12 is a classical conjunctival accession procedure. So, you can conclude an arbitration agreement, or you can, by your conduct, confirm your consent that you have joined a particular forum to resolve disputes, court or arbitration. It is a universally accepted rule that certain conflict-solving actions accept the jurisdiction of a particular forum, a dispute-solving court. For this reason, if you deny the jurisdiction of a court or arbitration, you must make sure that you are only reduced to that denial, that any other involvement in the case of the dispute would lead you to the Court's view that you have consistently accepted its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26883	Replica, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26884	Please, we're misinformed here. We're still cheating on the public here. Please, this is what you want to create for the citizens of the great confusion, creating unnecessary problems. You're allowing citizens now to put your word of honor, to some store, that someone showed that he agreed with it and that it was her, like you said or not, but you're now bringing into a situation and the delusion of the citizens that they're wandering, or they're going to go to an agreement, or they're going to go to arbitration, or they're going to court. Demarcate each other and give the citizens the right to turn around. If they have spoken to the court, then it is settled by the court, and if they have turned and decided to settle the arbitration, let them settle the arbitration. You're creating a complication for the citizens in practice. Where does it say here for those shops? It doesn't say. Who will apply that provision, as you say well here, defines it as such and such a store, and is not incorporated into the law. How will one who solves both in arbitration or in litigation tomorrow solve it? The parties may, after a litigation procedure,: if the party has filed an action and the other party, the defendants are to be brought to the hearing, but cannot propose a delay in the procedure under the new Law on the litigation procedure, to stop in this procedure, in order to possibly agree to go to arbitration, but parallel two authorities to be involved, to settle a legal dispute for the citizens, that is insane. You lead citizens to wander and introduce legal uncertainty. Don't do that. This is only with your law. Does this provide for the Law of Prosecution? It's not a peace council, so the dispute can be settled because he took half a metre of land, so now we're going to a peace council, so if the peace council can solve, then yes, and if he doesn't, then he's going to court. So if he has to, but he decides on it. But now you ignorant parties especially... What you're exposing, what you're saying, this is a public distraction. Don't tell the story here about the congruent shops, and the law doesn't have them. If there are, what are the stores, because you are obliged to specify them. Tell them exactly that tomorrow when a citizen speaks to one of these subjects, he knows that this legislative body has passed a standard that must be followed by one that requires that his legal dispute be resolved, both court and arbitration. In this way, cheating on the cobwebs, this, Mr. Minister, wouldn't accept a hunting company. Believe me, this isn't even hunting society that would accept, especially beekeepers. Don't, please, there's Malen, there's a Deliblat pedestrian, please. This could even be about wine and brandy if it were the law, but there our Shumadinians and Serbs would fight that plums must be protected, to be stronger than whiskey, which is better than whiskey. So I'm free to tell you that this is the wrong solution. I won't call him anything else, because these are the wrong solutions. You have to specify and distinguish, because when you specify and distinguish, then you're in the field.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26885	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, you have seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26886	Mr. Minister, I think you made a mistake earlier when you said that the inheritance dispute is brother and sister if they need to be resolved by the court, so that should wait 10 years. Please, you've taken the wrong example, that dispute is not against inheritance, it's their property dispute over something else. No, it can go to a lawsuit, but you just need to know, you made a mistake if you talked about the heir dispute, and the inheritance wasn't discussed, then it doesn't touch this law. If you took that example, then they carry the death certificate to the arbitration court, please, and that's contrary to the Legacy Act. So you took a very bad example. I can understand that after the legacy has been debated, an inheritance solution has been made, so they may have some kind of border dispute, so they can feel free to go there, but provided it's not the part of the border arrangement, because it goes the same way outside of the litigation process. You took a bad example, but we're going to make it right, we didn't take it bad for you, we probably brought you into the discussion, so you wanted to point out that before the arbitration, it would be a long time before the disputed relationship was resolved, rather than before the court. You couldn't have made a bigger insult to the state. You're a minister, you have to protect state institutions. Please, you have to manage state institutions, not citizens, and limited working hours; whether it will be two, three or four years, while your term of office is, because you are primarily responsible for the work of the institutions. Of course it's all for the benefit of the citizens, but you first and foremost exercise your authority as minister towards institutions within institutions. When I say power, I think you organize, to apply the law in that sense. Let the citizens go. Citizens can't wait for no one to exercise power over them. They get their heads shot when they're ruled by someone. Look, what's the problem now if you let the physicals deal with each other's issues in front of some arbitration. So two beekeepers can settle their disputed relationship with the bee in front of the beekeepers' association, but it's not about this law. It concerns the rules of beekeeping society, it concerns the internal rules of beekeeping society and is not the subject of this law. Therefore, according to the law that regulates all these associations, they are authorised to prescribe their internal rules on how to resolve disputed relations in this regard. No, that's another thing. Next, another mistake – the Association of Citizens. Please, what association of citizens is going to solve this with authority, which one? Locate arbitration in terms of jurisdiction on very specific disputes where the profession and speciality need to take place. Look, third thing, you say -- it's not a good state court, you say there's an arbitration court, but right now, in English and French, that word you just used has a completely different interpretation. I do a little war with those documents, the English translate it one way, and the French do it another way. When you have a French and English translation, then you are said to have the advantage of English translation. I work with these papers every day, so I don't want to waste any time trying to convince you of those things. The State Court (hereinafter referred to as the Court) – then this means, wherever the court appears, after Article 7, you mean a state court, and then you have an arbitration court, and that would mean an arbitration court. We go to the next member - the appointment is done by the competent court. Then it would be the court's jurisdiction. You refused us the amendment, and we suggested that this is exactly what we suggest, therefore, that, instead of a state court, there is a written—the court of jurisdiction. What's a court of law? It's a judicial authority that according to the law has the jurisdiction to judge, and you refuse to judge us. If the dispute is brought before the competent "state" court, as you like to say, then there is no agreement, because you question jurisdiction. You exclude the jurisdiction of the national court to whom the party has addressed for the protection of rights and interests. How does a competent state want protection? He's looking for protection under the law. You will agree that with your arbitration courts, many things are resolved only formally and legally in accordance with the law, but essentially with the rules of the profession and the standards applied by the profession, which the court cannot apply, and if it applies, it applies through the arts and always remains a conflict. Since that's the case, you're also accepting a more restrictive approach to arbitration. Amendments to Article 11 and Article 12 paragraph 5 shall constitute one whole. There aren't any congruent shops. Article 12 of paragraph 5 also speaks of some subsequent agreement in the course of the court's dispute. That's one whole. If you do not accept the amendment to Article 11, you cannot accept the amendment to Article 12 by logic, because it is one continent and it cannot be separated. If we had written the amendment only to Article 11, and we hadn't included Article 12, then it would really be one trivial situation: you accept the amendment to Article 11, and it remains at 12 what you say to "conclusive actions". So we were still keeping an eye on the amendments to make it consistent, to see a single thought passing through. We only intervened with nine amendments under this bill, and you have 70 members. That's 10%. Why? Just because of those three or four things we want to install in this bill and improve this text. We don't dispute things for you, just principled things concerning what we started with Article 5, and we'll go in line, since my time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26887	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) To clarify, of course, what is said to be done, tomorrow at 10.00 hours will begin the debate on the details of point 6 – Proposal for a law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26888	I wouldn't go back to the same amendment more times if I didn't want to underline a fundamental difference in the understanding of the rights between you and us. It consists of the following: you go to the so-called A trivial solution to the problem, if some norm does not suit you, you deny freedom to the citizens by banning it. I agree that Article 11 could have been supplemented by another provision that obliges the parties to conduct the proceedings to suspend the proceedings of their arbitration clause to a judicial court, so that the judicial court, on the basis of knowledge of the arbitration clause, would have suspended the proceedings. It was supposed to be your amendment, not to make it impossible for people who were disappointed in the ineffectiveness of a particular judge and that they were spending their lives in one tunnel because they had an accident that their case had fallen to an inefficient judge. So it's better to supplement, put a little more effort into giving people freedom, with proper precision. I agree that this supplement would be better, but I can't undo one norm that's completely normal right now, because you didn't add it properly, but cancel it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26889	National MP Petar Jojic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26890	Mr. Minister, I'm asking a question, asking for answers and written proof. This project and this bill were written, can you deliver a translation from any of the countries of European and Anglo-Saxon law? We can't take your word for it. You say you agree with international law and international standards. We have a right, and we have a duty to the citizens of Serbia, to ask you a question, because you are in that vault and you have to make an account here. Give us an answer based on which standards, which countries, give us a copy, to see if there are such solutions in France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Kingdom of England and Wales and the United States and our brotherly Russia. If you give us a translation, we'll be able to work with you on a professional basis. This way we don't know who wrote this proposal. It's our right to ask. We know that interns are preparing the laws here as regulations of a fire department. Mr. Minister, he can't take it anymore. You're a university law professor, can you allow yourself to deny the right of an MP to ask, and when I ask you a question, you say: that's irrelevant. You can't talk to MPs like that. It's not irrelevant. The important thing is that we know what you're doing. This is the legislative authority that controls you, this is the body you have to account for. Who was on your team to put this together, shall I say, the rules of gg companies? Give us those experts of yours that you include making laws and coming here to make fools of MPs. You don't want me. Don't be angry, but those are standards. You must go to parliament, but parliament must ask you to really come out and answer the question, and secondly, give Parliament and MPs enough evidence that you have relied on international law. I've been doing the Code of Criminal Procedure for 11 countries. Radicals included the biggest experts in the state and then we agreed on a good law, but now some who had never been professors, had no idea with procedural law, and wrote procedural legislation, and teachers who had 30-40 years of experience in procedural law and criminal-material law were not involved. (President: Time. I asked you a question and I ask you to give me an answer from which country this is coming from. I want a translation. We have the Institute of Comparative Law. Mr. Secretary, step out here and make an appointment with the MPs. If the Institute of Comparative Rights is involved, you have to provide us with a translation of the laws of those countries. We want to go to Europe, but at the same time we're asking you to tell us what the experts who are at the same time the two organs include are on stage and that you're distracting the citizens, that you're misleading them and that they're wandering: they're either going to go to a hunting society or to a fire company. (President: Time. We say radicals: according to the Constitution. This isn't a constitutional category. Mr. Minister, go ahead and find one sentence in the Constitution. Yes, and arbitration and arbitration law, we need to change the Constitution, install this into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have to call for the Constitution to demand that it be and it is regulated. (President: Mr Jojic, in the meantime you respect this constitution, but please, with all tolerance, respect the Rules of Procedure, fifth minute, please. Mr. Minister, we're willing to stay here until morning, but we're looking for answers, because you don't allow us to discuss in Parliament, you don't inform us, you're pushing us chicken eggs here, you're pretending to be great experts, and you're just trying to put your word that you wrote one law. The law can be written, but it can be applied and citizens understand it. (President: Mr Jojic, I only need one gesture, do you want as a parliamentary question? )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26891	No, I don't. Thank you. The minister himself decides what, when and how he responds, is a clear Rules of Procedure and it is clear who the proposings are, it was a clear question. This is a dialogue, but within that, there is a possibility, which I always point out, that as a parliamentary question, then there is an additional obligation, a procedural, something recorded, and we have done this several times at the request of MPs, but also at the previous warning of the president of the Assembly that it is possible. I remind you of the procedure. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26892	Dear Members of the People, we have also reached Article 17. On behalf of the SRS, I have proposed an amendment to Article 17. The bill and I'll only talk about the amendment. I suggested that Articles 17, paragraphs 2 and 3 "and if it does not have or does not do so, the appointment shall be carried out by the competent court". Also, paragraph 4 of this article is deleted. The number of arbitarians, Mr. Minister, who settle property disputes, we know that, and most of the economic operators, based on a business-technical co-operation contract and mostly co-operation, are determined by the parties. It may be one or more arbitrations, as you have suggested, or if the parties do not determine their number shall determine the authority of the appointments designated by the parties, and that is fine. But it is unnecessary in this Article 17. The bill to appoint a competent court, because it would not be in accordance with the general principle of the arbitration law, because arbitration is in our care and now we give it independence, or we give it the character of a permanent institution. The arbitration shall address property disputes freely negotiated by the parties and which do not fall within the jurisdiction of the court. That's exactly what this stuff is. In this regard, we believe that the court does not need to determine the arbitration officer, but rather the parties themselves. Also, this item 4, I will quote that it reads: "against the court's decision called the arbitration tribunal is not allowed to appeal", although the appeal is a constitutional category. Since we are from the Serbian Radical Party against the arbitration panel determining the court, this is really well-intentioned, I think you could adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26893	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Anyone else by this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. So that there would be no objections, so we just exchanged data on Mr. Jojic's wishes and I, because yesterday it ended with us at one point, so it wasn't possible to write it down... I had to quote at the start of the ancient Italian "Hell" because it was so sought, and Mr. Jojic responded in Latin, so people got confused. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26894	Mr. Markovic, I will take the opportunity to apply this amendment to Article 24. I also include these two or three amendments that follow, since this is essentially the same and to end this debate in order not to waste time in persuasion, since we obviously have two blocks deep in our trenches, etc. In Article 24(3), which is covered by this amendment by Mr Koprivica, which is also in paragraphs 2 and 3, you have stated that the exemption of the arbitration panel is to be decided by the competent court, in the position of the 3rd pardon, but this is to be linked to this Article 17, which includes paragraphs 2 and 3 concerning the determination of that President, who will be chaired. If the arbitration panel designated by the parties in the dispute cannot agree on a third party, the decision shall be taken and appointed by the competent court. What is the court responsible for the appointment of an arbiter? The municipal court by the place of residence, the district court, the trade court, the appeal court, the Supreme Court, which is the court in charge? If there were no speculation about that now, we are talking about Article 17 of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Courts Regulation is a regulation defining the jurisdiction of state courts, as you like to say. In that law, there's not a word about anything that would associate this. Please, the Law on Procedural Procedure does not contain any provisions on arbitration, it was expelled last year when the Law on Prosecution was passed. I know, Mr. Minister, but a much more important question for this is real jurisdiction. I've tried very precisely to show you, since I don't think you have any experience in practice. Which court would be really competent, municipal, county, appeals, etc., etc., not to order. (Milan Parivodić, from the scene: One who would settle disputes...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26895	Excuse me, Mr. Minister, excuse me, Mr. Krasic, anything you can further explain, please, is possible in personal contact with the pay phone. Please, there's no reason, except for the rhetorical address and there's no answer either, because that's how you create the wrong picture and people can't write a stenogram. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26896	Therefore, the court in charge would be the one whose legal jurisdiction of the litigator has been ruled out by some of their agreements, or even in a variant if a court case was previously brought before the competent court, and they agreed in the course of the proceedings before the competent court that they would bring it before arbitration. Now imagine, Belgrade's First Municipal Court is in charge of resolving a disputed relationship. The prosecutor filed a lawsuit, an appointment for a preparatory hearing, they subsequently set up an agreement to resolve the arbitration he holds, such as Vojin Dimitrijevic. The prosecutor has determined one, the defendant determines the other and now the court that was in charge, I am not entering which, in the case of the dispute, these two arbitration tribunals over the one in common to determine who will be the third president of the arbitration court. One of the reasons you're up for this concept of arbitration law is that the parties don't trust the court, they don't want 10 years to be tried before a state court, but they want someone on the street to settle their dispute. I apologize for this "out of the street," when it comes to serious economic operators, it's not someone on the street, but when it comes to what you're defending in Article 5, then it can literally be someone on the street. Now the third one should be determined by the one the minister says is inefficient, not good, etc. Well, there's something about logic that's not quite right for you. Next, Mr. President, you won't mind me including this amendment to Mr. Vojislav Milajić. This is Article 24 paragraph 3: "If the parties have not agreed differently, the arbitration panel shall decide on the exemption of the arbitration panel". Again, the competent court, in which you don't trust, because it takes ten years to settle a dispute, so let's go to the street with some arbitrationists. Article 28(3), this is already, Mr. Minister, a little funny, and if your college colleagues listen to this, professors... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Krassic, does that mean you're covering another one at the same time? I understand, I also understand, in relation to the duties of the Minister and all MPs, what you say, so I'm checking. The minister's following, he knows what they're talking about. I see the MPs... Mr. Nemanja Sarovic has submitted an amendment to Article 28(3) and is seeking its erasure. In that position is the title of that member – the decision of the arbitration court on its jurisdiction. Generally, all we're saying is a matter of jurisdiction. He says, "The decision of the arbitration body to declare a void contract containing the arbitration clause... ". The first two attitudes indicate that the arbitration body only assesses whether it is competent. It's a bit of a weird formulation, a team before it's an arbitration body, which was formed by the parties that were in the dispute. That's what you wrote. Pera and Djoca have made arbitration, determined the composition of arbitration, and now those whom they have appointed to be arbiters, they sit down and say, "Let's see if we are competent to settle the dispute between Pera and Djoke." That's really funny. He says: "The decision of the arbitration body on declaring a worthless contract containing the arbitration clause does not withdraw the futility of that clause. "If any agreement is void, do you know what is the legal consequence of nothingness? It doesn't exist, it goes back to the way it was. You say – it goes back to the previous state, but it retains our right to decide that there is nothing. It's contrary to the normal legal consequences of nothingness. I hope you understand. The futility of the legal act, the agreement, the futility as administrative, as a litigation category. You have three chapters in the Law on Bonds, Determining Nothingness, Advertising Zero Contracts, etc., which are the legal consequences of nothingness. Probably in any other or third law that we adopt in this assembly we have in one of the members such provision where it is said – if the contract is concluded contrary to the provisions of this law, it is considered void, nothing is determined by the court, etc., or similar formulation. All is nothing, but I am nothing; so says the arbitration body. I think that formulation is completely unnecessary, and if you throw it out... Practically, you now have a concept: they can subsequently agree on arbitration, and now that they have subsequently agreed on arbitration, that arbitration is authorized to do everything. Then you have a situation where we agree on arbitration in advance, and that's the arbitration clause of some of our legal work, and then when that arbitration is formed, she says, well, this legal job is nothing, that contract is nothing, you don't meet the law, and everything is accepted that they have determined that nothing is but that clause in that article, in some member of that contract. Let's say, if the contract had 52 members, when they said it was nothing, that would be 51, and the one would be practically full, and the one who explains that arbitration should be formed. The last amendment we have submitted is the amendment of Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, which concerns Article 49(2). This member has a title – a decision based on rights or justice. The first position says: "The arbitration court makes a decision by applying the law, i.e. legal rules, contracts and customs. "We think that's enough, but what's in attitude 2 can really cause big problems. I must tell you that we have submitted an almost identical amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, because in several members, even where it does not belong, it is written that the court will judge by law, but also by justice and justice. When you say "justice and justice," it's already a feeling. I have to remind you, if you're trying to justify that attitude of justice and justice, this is not lustration. Here the notion of lustration is imposed by the Vodnelic family. In one distorted form of justice and justice is raised above constitutionality and legality. As an excuse, they used some of the views of the Nuremberg judgment, which concerned a judge who had been tried under the law. Later, however, because they could not condemn him otherwise, they came to the conclusion that he was doing so in accordance with the law, but it was so obviously unfair and unfair that he needed to be spatrated, so he was later expelled from court, persecuted, and so on. Such a notion of lustration and what these people impose on us are two different things. What's being pushed around like a lustration is a purely political category. It has nothing to do with justice, justice, the Constitution and the law. When these words are incorporated into some law – based on justice and justice, then we come to the field of emotion and feelings. You and Igor can think differently about what's right. There's one option for you, for Igor the other. This is why all modern legal systems are based on the fact that all representatives of the government are bound by the Constitution, law and regulation. There are both morals, norms, and value systems and something that is objectively and advancely familiar to all. When it comes to justice and justice, then we are in the field feeling of an individual. For someone, it's just, it's not for someone else. Someone played football well, so he lost the game and you say it's not fair. Can you change the score? He can't. He lost. A bit of a plastic example to realize that everyone has their own impression of what's right and wrong. Tonight one team will certainly play well, and they will lose. Then we say, "It's an injustice."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26897	He won't, like he won't be able to change time. Two more minutes. You won't? Thank you for understanding. Mr. Minister, just a second. First, the SRS parliamentary group by the authorised Mr Krasic has exhausted its argument through what you have said procedurally in fact on amendments to Articles 17, 24, 28 and 49. In contrast, allow me, I will ask you, Mr Minister, to ask members of other parliamentary groups on these amendments, so that we can get into a situation so that you can respond unitedly and at the same time give a final word. As you have heard, it is foretold that there will be a replica, but we will see. Maybe not, because I'm saying we don't do that. Once again, do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about an amendment to Article 17? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask if the representative of the proposing Dr Milan Parivodić, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, wants to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister. As far as prophesying is concerned, I will have the pleasure of seeing you here tomorrow from 10.00 p.m. in the same composition, as a prophesyor, as well as MPs. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26898	Thank you, Mr. President. It's always a pleasure to sit with the Serbian Radical Party's MPs on the right. Now I'm going to present to you a case that I described in detail in my doctorate, which is called the Pronupsia de Pari (Pronuptia de Paris), where the manufacturer of the Pronuptia de Paris wedding equipment concluded the franchise contract with Mrs. Schilgalis, one Nemica. They made a commitment, according to this franchise contract, that Pronuptia de Paris would deliver a number of wedding dresses, tuxedo, etc., anything needed, wedding equipment. Then Mrs. Schilgalis addressed the German judiciary, as competent, when she had already received the goods, wedding dresses, tuxedo, bow tie and everything she needed for the wedding, then she went to court and said, because she didn't like the job to do – this contract is worthless because it is contrary to the real competition of the EU, due to these clauses that hurt competition is the futility of these clauses themselves, and more than that, and the whole contract. From this I draw the conclusion, says Mrs. Schilgalis, that my obligations do not exist according to "Pronuptia de Paris", because the whole contract is void because of this futility of clauses that violate competition rights. It's a school example where you have a situation where someone wants to get out of the contract by calling for the illegality of a particular contract clause, and thus the whole contract, and thus to avoid its obligation. It is assumed in the contractual right that if the parties have also concluded a clause on arbitration settlement of disputes, they will also, in the event of an issue of invalidity being raised by one of the two parties, to bring the dispute to the arbitration court. This very assumption has led to the existence of this provision in the law that only one arbitration clause survives the rest of the contract that has been annulled because it is their will to resolve the dispute, despite all that, in front of arbitration, and not before the court. You got it. It's about that, and that's why I can't accept the amendment. The issue of ex aequo et bono, whether it can be resolved past and whether, in addition to the right, an arbitration court can make a decision based on justice and justice – says here only if the parties explicitly agreed on it. We're back in the field of will autonomy, and if the parties believe that someone is just, then they'll let him solve that slow ex aequo et bono. If they don't believe he's just, they won't explicitly say he can do it by that method, by those norms of justice to solve this dispute. You keep trying to invade the freedom of citizens in their contractual freedom of disposal. (Petar Jojic, from the post: See what the minister does? )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26899	Please, Mr. Jojich... Excuse me, Mr. Minister. Mr. Jojic, the minister gives the final word, and that's exactly what he does in words, be kind to the words he gives the final word, if there's a basis for replication, please, we're not running this guy's linguistic debate here. Be kind, we can't in any way, on any basis compromise the basic rights of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, and proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this law is, I said it at the beginning, and now I'm going to repeat it again, based on the model of UNCITRAL law, a specialised UN agency for international trade law founded in 1966 by Professor Clive Schmidt. This model law was made in 1988 and you can find it very easily on the Internet in English, and I'm sure you know English and you can read it in English. There's a translation of this model at the Institute of Comparative Rights, where you can also get it easily. This model of law has great authority in the international arbitration world and over 50 countries have based their national laws on this law model. When I was giving instructions on how this law would be made, I just insisted that the deviation from that model of law, which was thoroughly checked on all five continents of the world, be as small as possible, so that it would be as recognizable. If a certain problem arises in the application of this law, we can take advantage of this parallel practice that is based precisely on the model of the law and come out of a possible pillar that has led us to an incorrect solution. I think the law is written in a very clear, quality, civilist language, understood by every average educated citizen, not written for specialists. It brings a new important institute into Serbia's internal order. I suppose it will speed up real dispute settlement in Serbia, relieve Serbian courts of proceedings where they do not have to be involved and thus make a great deal of use for the legal security and quality of life of Serbian citizens. That's why I'm asking you to support him on the day of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-17-0.u26901	Thank you, Mr. Parisian. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Given that the chairman announced that no debate will be held today until the end of the debate on the specifics of the item starting at 1800 hours, I would like to inform you that it will not start in the next six minutes, but, as we have promised publicly, each other tomorrow at 10.00 hours of debate next item of the agenda. As for the business chances of giving the replica, in the same language – quad perit, perit, as you asked. Goodbye and thank you for your responsibility.
