ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have no notice of the prevention of MPs from attending the session. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in the position of the first member of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda, which, in its request for the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, have been set up by 103 MPs. Since there are currently no 126 MPs present, we will not enter the minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for this session, which was called upon by 103 MPs, under Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the fourth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Agenda was set out: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio-Difusion, submitted by the MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Vukosav Tomasevic, Miroslav Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Esad Djudževic, Nikola Jovanovic and Miroslava Gusic; 2. Proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly; 4. The election of members of the National Council for Higher Education, based on a proposal from the Serbian University Conference. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RADIO-DIFUSION You have received a bill submitted by the MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Vukosav Tomašević, Miroslav Janković, Rajko Baralić, Esad Judžević, Nikola Jovanovic and Miroslava Gusic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - 1 hour 36 minutes; the DSS - 1 hour 3 seconds; the MP group DS - Boris Tadic - 43 minutes 12 seconds; the parliamentary group G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, the SPS parliamentary group - 26 minutes 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the 6 independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and six independent MPs per five minutes, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, MP Svetlana Stojanovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. At the same time, one notice - a session of the Committee on Culture and Information, which will discuss this law, will be held in the fourth floor hall at 10:20 p.m., and a session of the Legislative Committee will be held in the small National Assembly Hall at 10:15 p.m. The word is by MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29048	Honorable MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Radio-Difusion Act do not fall into the essence and spirit of the law itself. On the contrary, they aim to make the law more effective and therefore I suggest that, as a fundamental amendment to the law, we accept the one relating to the enforceability, i.e. the enforceability of decisions taken by the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. The Council is working under great pressure from the public and interested broadcasters. Decisions taken by definition deny a number of broadcasters the right to continue broadcasting. If these decisions are not enforceable and cannot be implemented, the Radio-Difusion Act loses its basic meaning, and that is to seduce the order in chaos that has ruled in our age that has been real for decades. If we let the emitter simply go deaf to the Council's decision, all the precision we tried to bring into law itself would have no meaning. Therefore, Article 11 of the proposed amendments and additions are prescribed that the broadcaster is obliged to implement, without delay, the final decision of the Council on the withdrawal of the authorisation and, if it does not, the enforcement procedure will be carried out. Without such a change, those broadcasters who were legally entitled to broadcast would be at risk. The second amendment refers to the fact that the right to broadcast is also covered by satellite transmission. So it's specified that other than cable and ground, satellite transmission is involved in getting the frequency. Therefore, the proposal for an amendment states that the emitter is required to obtain a special satellite broadcasting permit, if it has not been granted land and cable authorisation, if it has been denied. In practice, there has already been a problem in determining the share of foreign capital in broadcasters seeking frequencies. The participation of foreign capital by the Radio-Difusion Act is limited, but no way to control the level of foreign capital is foreseen. Amendments to the Law stipulates that the broadcaster receiving the frequency has an obligation to request from the Broadcasting Agency prior consent if it feels the need for additional foreign capital. With these changes, we have also suggested the correction of an injustice done to radio stations. According to the Radio Diffusion Act, radio stations should pay 20% of their broadcasting fee compared to the height set for television broadcasting. Since the revenue from advertising radio stations is nowhere near the one that makes television stations, we suggest that instead of 20 it be 5%. The next change I'd like to make applies to the TV stations in the establishment. A positive law stipulates that cells that are currently not being broadcast, which are just being set up, have 60 days to start broadcasting. We thought it was too short a deadline, given that they have to set up a technique, set up a program, humanely strengthens and we suggest that that deadline be 120 days. I find it justified and very desirable to amend, or supplement, Article 67, which prohibits advertising of political parties outside the campaign and requires equal treatment of all political parties in the framework of the campaign. I've only singled out some, but there are some minor changes. It is possible that this is not all that needs to be changed in the Radio-Difusion Act, but I believe that the Assembly is always the one who has the power to amend the laws that it makes at all times. The proper French law has changed 30 times in my knowledge. Since this session is extraordinary and has to end on Thursday, it seemed more important to introduce those changes that are most important so that the work of the Council will not be mined, so as not to be in vain, it means that the broadcasters are forced to comply with the decisions made by this independent body. I hope you'll take the proposed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29049	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29050	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on Broadcasting has been brought and changed several times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, each time according to the needs of the government, and since 2002, when we warned the DS regime and talked about the fact that it was impossible for someone to go into broadcasting for 60 days, and it was about a television broadcaster, but that it took a long time, then the representatives of the government of Zoran Djindjic told us that it was possible, because they calculated that some of them had enough money to run and end it as soon as possible, regardless of what was concept, production and broadcasting, if you will, with all the transmitters, antenna systems, etc. It's impossible to do that in such a short time. Now the question is whether or not we are changing the conditions of competition here, is this something that completely changes what was the condition that individual or future broadcasters appeared in the competition or not. Therefore, respect for the principle of legal certainty has not been fully implemented and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for this. It's our fault, because most of the process was under our control, and I think the ruling majority has always acted and changed regulations in accordance with the daily political needs, not according to what I would say is the long-standing need of our society and our country. This change, this kind of change, therefore, of competitive conditions, can further contribute to the public's impression that individual broadcasters who have competed and have not passed the competition, are damaged, and there will certainly be additional pain and problems. There are some good solutions in this proposal. I'm going to start with them, so I'm going to go back to some other bad solutions. So the good thing is that the charge for broadcasting the radio program is reduced to a reasonable 5% of what is taken from television, or 4 times less than what was planned earlier, because it's something that commercially can be covered, and more than that would be impossible. It is good that Article 68(1) is changed and TVs are said to "respect the ban on advertising of political organisations outside the election campaign" etc. And now I'm wondering if they're going to respect television, because the only problem is that there's no sanctions against it, except that we could hope that someone will act the same way they did in some other cases, it seems too harsh, and I'm afraid they'll be kind to others. In fact, Article 68 now states: "they respect the ban on advertising of political organisations outside the election campaign, and during the pre-election campaign, to provide equal representation to registered political parties, coalitions and candidates without discrimination. “ Now I ask if anyone is watching Serbian TV, whether someone is watching B92, whether someone is watching Studio B, because it doesn’t matter at all, you can love or not, may be responding to them, but I don’t know any of the DS who will say that these are correct TVs, that they are professional and objective televisions, and they happen to have comments against the SRS in the first sentences. They have no news, they say, I don't know, even Ivana Dulic's tears weren't enough, and I ask you, why there is no comment on the statement that ten billion dollars is an optimistic offer for Kosovo and Metohija, I ask you, representatives of the government, because last night the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister said it on one show. I'm asking you, if our country has a price, if everything in this country has a price, if our territory has a price, if it has any respect for friends, because if it has a country price, then let's ask what their price is, their moms, dads, brothers, sisters, all the other family members. Now somebody's gonna tell me, it's ugly, what, country has a lower price than anybody's mom and dad's price, or I don't know who, that's ten billion, good price, let's trange-friends with country. It's something no one in this country can understand. We need media that will allow people to express a different opinion, not media that will be institutions for organised socio-political work and campaigns against individual political parties. Now I have to ask one question, why does this kind of campaign run against the SRS, why more than six years, since Serbian radicals don't have a single forum of government, you rule you, different yellow DOSs, such as or such, it doesn't matter which color all of them and whose shades of the same color, and I can't figure out why people wait, you run this Serbia, you're the ones responsible and those who blame you for what's good or not good today, why the SRS bothers the SRS, why it does so, unity against a single opposition party in Serbia. You want me to tell you why? Why is B92 doing this today? They say Kostunica went to Brussels, not to remember that he was so charming, sweet as a candy, only he didn't say that Jaksa Šcekic, today Boris Tadic goes, it's to make a tandem of Tadic-Kostunica, so she doesn't beat the SRS. Why not beat the SRS? Did we steal something in the election, kidnap it, or did we announce that something bad would happen for anyone in this country or in another country? Or they're bothered by something else, maybe that they don't want there to be some authority that will decide on their people in the interests of their people and who will not exclusively serve the orders of individual countries or international organisations, that there are those who are not ashamed to say that Serbs are not criminals and that Serbs are not guilty of war in the former Yugoslavia's territory, and that we want to face everyone, but especially those who killed Serbs and kidnapped our territories. I'm sorry, they exist in Serbia. And does that bother you? Is that what obedient media is needed to say? I ask the question, how come no one intervenes, that everyone is silent when one television station announces that Toma Nikolic killed grandparents and grandfathers of Antino, Toma Nikolic has an apartment in St. Sava, and that was, has a Tom and some eight-year-old child, neither wrong nor due, who has nothing to do with Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Then Gordana has fairies and castles, the Wolf wanted to kill his own mother, so I don't know what. So then Natasha Raja and Maharajah, the woman spent three nights for 3,000 dinars in the cheapest room. Don't drag me by my tongue, so you'll hear about it, and those who make crematoriums for Roma and Jews, no, they're good, they're European-oriented, only radicals aren't good, they're just not good. I have a political message, so I'm going to continue with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, you go ahead and say what our people say - gather around in one place. It's true, there's no big difference anyway. All of you gather around, meet in the same place, all of you against the SRS, don't bother us any more - we're a little different, we love you a little, but we can't say it publicly, we hate you a little less than these others. No, you gather yourselves together, let him gather you together, if you will, Solana, may be gathered together by anyone else, and all together against the SRS, let us see whose side the people will be on. We think he'll do ours, because he's sick of humiliation and robbery and crime and everything else, but let's see. If the people stand by your side, we'll say -- it's okay, congratulations, but don't make people feel so different anymore, that you're not alike, etc., and every day is the only policy -- let's make sure we attack somewhere in the SRS, and we're not really different. Why didn't the proposer's representative talk about it here, a financial plan to approve the government, not the Assembly? The Council of the Broadcasting Agency is an independent regulatory body. It will no longer preserve its independence if the plan is approved by the National Assembly, not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why was that brought in in the alterations and additions? So the government can control it even deeper, better, stronger and stronger? So Dinkic can put his paw somewhere else, that his "yellow" friends can do something else before someone takes him on the list so he can dream of a census? That's not a good solution. Here, it gives up the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, of one general law and of the general norms that exist in that law. This is some kind of lex special. It's true that according to the famous legal rule of lex specialis derrogate generals, but I'm being asked the question, what we're always talking about, imagine how much secondary legislation we have in our country, no one alive gets it, and think about how many special laws we have. In general, the question is why do we need general laws, what do we need general norms, what do we need the General Administrative Procedure Act, if the problem with the General Administrative Procedure Act is that there are two or three deadlines that have to be respected, and what does something have to take a month? It's clear to me here that everything that's been going on with BK TV has been recorded. I'd very much like that to happen with B92 and then I'd say, "Here, I'm ready, even in a way like this, so let someone judge me for it." I'm afraid there are some other solutions here that aren't legally written. I'd warn the lawyers about that. It says here, in line with what was happening in BK television, let's say he could come and seal off production equipment, broadcasting equipment, a person who was authorized by the Council for the Broadcasting Agency. Don't let a person who's authorized, let him draw authority from the law, let him be a representative of the Council, not someone to whom someone will write paper and say - he's doing it for me. Let it be his legal authority, not his ID, the papers he's got from the law of an authorized person. This doesn't have to be done. There's no need for what you would call a legal conqualification of what happened before, so now let's find an excuse for everything that's going on today. It's a solution that's not legal. It's a political solution. They don't mind. The same can end when they want to put anyone away, shut down, but let the law draw that authority, not from any other official person. These are solutions that are not legal and that we cannot support. Of course, I know that it's hard for people who work at the Broadcasting Agency Council to be exposed to the worst possible pressures. I saw in the paper that some were talking about how radicals got some frequency somewhere. For the sake of the public, since I've only been asked for one newspaper, I have to say that we haven't received any frequencies, that the SRS is engaged in political action at Serbian level, we are not engaged in radio and TV production, or broadcasting business. The only thing I'm sure of is that it's probably "yellows" that it's not all the media under their complete control, which are out of these five national televisions, who knows how many radios and I don't know how many regional ones, out of 30, one or two of which they don't have full control, and they immediately have a terrible problem. For what? In Serbia today is a struggle for interpretation. In fact, whatever happens, the most important thing is how the media will interpret it afterwards. What did I say to these? Namely, when the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister says that ten billion dollars or euros is an optimistic price and bid for Kosovo and Metohija, if anyone from the SRS had said that death penalty was allowed, he would have been sentenced to death. Since it's not a death sentence, he'd be sentenced to 40 years in prison. When the vice president of the current government says that, then it's normal -- people, we have one life, what do we care about the state, give ten billion, if we can put in our pockets and under our pillows, in our straw, what do we care about our country, what do we care about our children, our grandchildren, what does it matter, ten billion, at least we'll live for the next 20 years, sweet one. It'll be a presentation, it'll be an interpretation. That's the thing. Did you hear somewhere that someone said -- let's go to Bavaria, it's an optimistic offer of 100 billion. Imagine someone saying that in Berlin, in Dortmund, Keln, Hamburg, any other city. It's an optimistic offer of $100 billion!? What are we talking about in this country? In this country we're talking about having equally one-sided media. So, as the news broadcasts to them at 18:30, I know that radicals have noticed, and I guess the rest of them, Serbian citizens certainly do, as they broadcast at 18.30 on B92, so, like the mainstream, they step up at 19.00 and the ones at 19.30 and the other at 19.30 and there's no difference. Essentially, ideally, ideologically, it's exactly the same. Now I ask you if all of this is exactly the way it is, is it possible to present itself in such a way to the citizens of Serbia? Is it possible that the issue of the main editor of state television Studio B, paid by Gordana Pop-Lazic and me, Prophetovic and this and the one living in Belgrade, we pay her, all citizens of Belgrade are paying her, so that the journalist, speaks to his talker and says - do you think there is any greater evil than the radicals and what are all the evils that can happen to us? Is it professionalism, is it objectivity, is it normal civilized behavior? It's not. It's not particularly important to them, because there was no protest, because there was no demonstration for a long time, and the people hadn't shown what they thought about it in the street for a long time. You'll see, the time has come for that. You don't think that people will forever listen that the worst thieves are the best for Serbia, that those who robbed and stole our factories and businesses, who destroyed Serbian society completely, who made such a moral crisis in our society, in our country, that they are the best, because they will continue to serve and listen, and that the worst ones that will point to their crime and thieving. The people will no longer hear it, the people will no longer suffer it. Serbian citizens want to change, they want to have the right to hear the opinion of all political actors. I hope so, and now that Mr. Krasic reminds me of that, did you people notice that we have more exes on all televisions than some of the current ones? Every day someone tells me - she says Kori Udovicki, former governor, with the help of Bodrum and Thessaloniki, and then she talks to the former and the former, so she talks to this and this, so the ex-wife doesn't know who. And what do all these exes say, what are they today if they're exes? Does anyone think they should be in the future? It was like we had so much fun at the time, so now they should be back. It's these Djelicians, and I don't know what they're all about. Svilanovic is the best you have to talk about, because Svilanovic is obviously the ideologist of the Serbian government. He said first, he even said it wasn't optimistic, he was talking about some conditional independence. Serbian Deputy Prime Minister says -- an optimistic 10 billion bid. Now I'm asking you if the Prime Minister will show up to say anything about whether or not to call the Prime Minister to say, "I'm sorry, it's not exactly our country for sale." There's something I need to tell you about this optimistic and unoptimal offer. I'll tell you a story, it's not rude, even though it might look that way. When a man asks a lady, it's a story from a previous period, 100 marks, 100 euros, don't underestimate me, it's all pushing and pushing up to a million, and then - let me think about it. In the end, you get to that -- the point is the same is just a matter of price. For our country, it must not be the same principle, because our Serbia has no price for either 10 billion or 100 billion, as the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister means. What the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister means is clearly the Serbian government. Today we wait for the president of Serbia to tell us. Just wait and everything will come to what we told the people and everything they once said about how we invented their speeches somewhere in the future, you'll see that we haven't invented anything. Here, now I'm telling the citizens, so in four, five, six months, I'll remind them of that. The highest state official will appear who will say - terrible what has happened to us. The international community was not fair either, but it was the result of Milosevic's defeat. This is the result of the devastating policy that we led hundreds of millions of years ago and I don't know what it is, but we have to look into the future to help our people in Kosovo, we have to enter the EU, we will go with a personal map and to Gracanica, and to Gorazdevac, and here and there, what is now beyond our borders. It'll be the speech of the highest state official. Do you think, in advance, I can tell you, the president of Serbia, and I'm not sure that he will not be supported by the Prime Minister, since both have now become very charming about the match of Finland-Serbia, it is a miracle one, kissing them mother, which they have well brought to Serbia with it. So there's only one thing I want to tell you -- don't play with the state, the state doesn't have a price and don't try to make in the media a picture like it was in 2000 and 2001, when you won power and when you did a real media lynch over everyone who thinks differently, and some of you lynched on the street. Once again, let me ask you - who was responsible for what was lynched Dragan Milanovic on central Belgrade streets? I own that tape still, let me tell you right now. I'm ready to deliver it to the authorities, the police and the D.A.'s office. I've got more copies of the CNN tape. So I point out that I have video evidence of the execution of serious crimes. I also have evidence when Svilanovic stands in the window and breaks into the Federal Assembly and steals pictures and TVs. And for that, I have proof. There are still 92 expensive paintings missing, and I expect that honest revolutionaries will one day return some of the property of Serbian citizens, but it seems to me that this pelzer of theft, robbery and kidnapping has then moved on to those they have brought to power, so they have continued. We won't let them, and you have to bear in mind that you're lynching someone in one way or another, whether physically or physically, as you planned and as you thought, but we won't be able to do it anymore, because we have a responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, to the whole of Serbia, and especially to the half of Serbia who wants to change, who wants a different power, who wants to live better and who wants to say with pride that he lives in Serbia and that there's no offer of hundreds of trillion and trillion dollars for its territory, and not $10 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29051	MP Shormaz, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29052	I think it's Article 104, where we're obliged to notify. Only one part of the previous presentation, just because MPs should be informed of who is doing what, first of all, the work of the Prime Minister and DSS Mr Vojislav Kostunica. I can understand Mr. Vukic, and I can certainly tell my friend, because I have a little bit of disgust to watch certain electronic media, and I also think they're painted yellow, which is, to a large extent, some he mentioned, like B92 or Studio B, but doesn't mean that what they're saying is a fact or a fact. Perhaps that's why he didn't see it, let's say, to name the Prime Minister's visits in the last two to three weeks -- Russia, Germany, Italy, Great Britain, the United States, the Security Council, Brussels yesterday, everywhere Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica said -- it is unacceptable for Serbia that Kosovo will be independent and Serbia will not recognise a imposed solution in case it is called an independent Kosovo. It's simply what Vojislav Kostunica said, it's the government's position. What electronic or written media coloreds write yellow, talk about it, we don't care. (Zoran Krasic: You believe that? ) What I have to believe, I know that, Vojislav Kostunica, I know, unlike you, Krasic. On the other hand, and I don't mind, that based on a survey by the SRS, it believes it will win the next election, but can't be talked about by B92 on some tandem, Kostunica-Tadic. I can argue that this tandem will not be, but I can, based on the results of the local elections in Serbia in the past six months, argue that a tandem, but not Kostunica-Tadic, but a tandem, Vojislav Kostunica-Velimir Ilic, will actually win the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29053	I thank Mr. Shormaz. People's Messenger Nadica Momirov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29054	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, provoked by comments from colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, while commenting with my colleague from G17 plus. I don't know what time I'm having an awkward throwout here in the O.R., and that's why I'm asking the MPs to stick to the dignity of the assembly. I have to comment on something, because I can't listen anymore, I'm sick of talking about the hotel "Moscow" and about the MP Natasha Jovanovic, who when her mom called her boss, I think about Alexander Vukic, then she probably cried out or I don't know what, asked him to defend her here in the Assembly and he did it by saying - only three times she slept at the hotel "Moscow", not even more, just three times at the most luxurious hotel "Moscow". We all other MPs travel, I'm from Subotica, I travel 200 kilometers a day, I've never slept at the Hotel Moscow, I've never slept at the most luxurious hotel in Moscow. We're also tired of listening to the mourners... (President: It is more economical to travel. )......................................................................................................... What treatment Tom Nikolic has on various televisions and as if it were the biggest disaster in the world. You don't need any treatment on television by someone to create this treatment for you, because when you show up on TV, it's a shame. In particular, I looked at you, Alexander Vukicu, on Croatian TV "New" and it was such a shame, that there was no need for anyone to make a scenario negative about you, because what you're saying is enough to bring down all the reputation we have and who we create. What you're doing to us as damage, no one else from abroad, or I don't know where he can't do it to us. As far as Kosovo is concerned, we have heard here that the Deputy Prime Minister's name is no less than one woman by brave radicals. So, from the colors in Kosovo to today, one woman for the first time in Serbia's history, the vice-president of the government, is either responsible or not, I don't know what to do about the Kosovo issue. All you Serbian radicals had nothing to do with Kosovo, except cause one war, participate in that war and lose that war. Now Deputy Prime Minister, one woman is to blame for all this. That's what we've been listening to for days, we've been listening to your threats for days -- what happens when the SRS comes to power, you'll arrest us all. That's enough of that. Get serious. We have a very important task ahead of us. Serbia needs seriousness, first of all, and not the tending and overcoming which political party is stronger, which will win, who will sit in which chair. We need to do one job, take our country back to normal, be a normal state, that's what we need.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29055	Thank you. Please don't insult the Deputy Prime Minister, she is not one woman, she is Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Angelkovic, you've noticed, there's a lot more money for Mrs. Momirov when she travels to Saturday than for a night at the Moscow Hotel. That's why Mrs. Momirov travels to Saturday to steal money and not sleep at the Hotel Moscow. How come your tears are different? How is it that you have been snorkeling, Ivana Dulic weeps, and you weep for her, and Albianic weeps for her, and Dinkic weeps for her. You're crying in person, and it bothers you that Natasa Jovanovic didn't cry, but she said she was having a hard time, because unlike you, she's an honest woman, she didn't steal, she's not a criminal, like most members of your parliamentary group and political party. As for Natasha Jovanovic, yes, she slept three times for 3,000 dinars in the cheapest room in four years. Is that a problem? You should be ashamed and ashamed of what you say, and you shouldn't go out and say it, because you know how Natasha would eat you politically here, because she's 10 times more educated, and more educated, and a smarter and better man than you in every way. Second, ladies and gentlemen, my dear friends, now to hear what is a world miracle, what is I resented. She said Mrs. Momirov, she said about "New" television, that I should be ashamed of how I represented my party, our country, our people. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I joined the New Television programme in Croatia, where the guests were Ante Djapic, some communist, I forgot his name, and then I found out why he was so anti-Serbian, but I'll tell you this. So, they started, we started with a story about Serbia-Croatia's relations, and then they say at one point, they know that on the other hand, they say - Croatia in the Homeland War, ever since it got free, so we now need to seek the right for the Croatian national minority, we freed our own, and Serbs have all rights here. Then I said, unlike you, who will not defend this country and this people, I was allowed in Zagreb's television to say, "No, you have committed a criminal act of "Storm", killed and expelled Serbs from their centuries-old hearths, you have committed the greatest crimes since World War II. Then one of the Croats found himself and said, "This reminds me of the 40th year, Nazism etc." I'm saying, don't just remind someone of Nazism, 40th and 41st, because you killed under the Nazi hat and Hitler's all Serbs, not only in Croatia, but in BiH and elsewhere. Shame on me? That evening, Mrs. Momirov, I received greetings from both Vukovar and Knin, both from Belgrade and Herceg Novi, from all places where there are people who hold on to the Serbian name and last name, who hold on to their honor and cheeks, and you should be ashamed of having something to say. You had something to blame me for, because I protected my country, protected my people with words. Just because I said -- you can't step on our country to Serbia, because the Croats in Serbia have all the rights guaranteed by international standards and all the possible, and you Serbs -- and I said this, you know, maybe this is why I should be ashamed, I said -- and you Serbs kill on their doorsteps, and once it explodes along with the door, so you rape it, and then you kill it on the Caribbean Sea for the third time, so the fourth one shouldn't even show up. And that's why I should be ashamed, respected citizens and respected MPs? Ladies and gentlemen, that's why I'm not ashamed, that's why I'm proud, and I'll always be proud because unlike you, I have the courage to say what my country is and what you don't have. You're talking about how Tomislav Nikolic is represented. We're just looking to represent ourselves, not you to represent us, not the "yellow" thieves to represent us, not the ones to speak, we'll talk. Now someone would think I don't know what the Wolf said, I don't know what the Wolf said. Here, this is what I said, defending my country, and I didn't let them insult Serbia. Now, I've gathered up the little courage to confront three or four of them in the Zagreb study, because I haven't seen them, to tell you the truth, who have spoken the worst of our people and our country. And that's why I'm guilty? I am guilty, Mrs. Momirov, I admit it, but let me tell you, while I'm alive, I may not be involved in politics, I may not know what to do, but as long as I'm alive, I'm going to teach my children to work at every step and never say that Kosovo is worth 10 billion, it's an optimistic offer. You're talking about something here-- you're strong, you're strong, so you attacked your wife. What are you talking about? About what the Deputy Prime Minister said was an optimistic offer of 10 billion for Kosovo. What are you telling us stories about little kids? What do you mention about Natasha Jovanovic? And she's a woman. What does that mean? You want equality, and I can't say what the Deputy Prime Minister says here. I'm for equality, for me there's no... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The difference between a woman and a man when it comes to politics. You're all the same. Now I can't say what she says - a 10 billion optimistic offer for Kosovo. You can't tell your colleague anything that says the tie is Croatian. Isn't that a hate speech? If I had said that, I'd already be hanging out in the terraces, I don't know where, because you're hypocritical, because you don't like your country, because you don't love this country, because all you care about is how much you're going to rob, kidnap and how much you're going to steal, and how much worse and worse it's going to be in Serbia and nothing else. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. Just something about local choices. I don't mind Mr. Shormaz looking forward to it, just let him look forward to it, but make it clear to people how these local elections are won. They are obtained by going to the village and starting a 50m journey, and they need 250m. That 50 meters he's paved, that's great, but to end it they have to vote for his candidate, so only when that village votes for him can they get the rest of 200 meters. That's how local elections are won, but that's how they can't get central. We keep quiet about it, let you go, do what you want, rejoice as little children how much the people love you because they love your politics, whatever you want. Since you are so strong and because you win everywhere, call these elections to go to the elections, but not as Tadic says elections for parliament, but also presidential elections, parliamentary elections, rural and local elections, so we can go to all elections, so what kind of nuns, both of whom are. Let the people say who they love and who they don't love and who they should be ashamed of when they protect the country of Serbia, and who should be ashamed of attacking those who protect the country of Serbia. I think the citizens will know how to choose, and I think they'll be able to give the right answer. Once again, let me finish what I said on Nova TV, and you remind me if I forgot anything, I might have attacked them for something else. I said that Serbia must take care of its people west of Drina and Danube, because the future of our children depends on the unity of our people. That's how it was until today, so it'll be in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29057	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29058	Chief Natasa Jovanovic, if you are such a great Serbian patriot, then I assume you will fight for patriotism, or do what is expected of you as a Serbian citizen above all, and then you can stand up for citizens of Serbian nationality in neighbouring countries. It's about hoping that you'll return the apartment you took while you were Minister, that you'll pay your phone bill. You had an account of 150,000 dinars you didn't pay. These are the basics that every citizen of a country needs to do first, to show that there is a patriot in his country, to respect his country and his institutions, and only then can he fight for other issues. Since you don't meet that minimum and not only that, but you're calling me here and saying I should be ashamed of traveling and going to see my family, the basic value of a society, my family, my seven-year-old kid going home every day to see and you think it's a shame, that I should sleep in the most luxurious Hotel Moscow. Who am I stealing from? Come out and say it. I tell you nicely that you stole the apartment, you stole the phone bill, you stole the impulses, you didn't pay the phone bill. You're a thief and you can't tell me that and you can't threaten. That's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29059	I think it's best if we build tents outside the assembly and no one goes home or sleeps at the hotel. Mr. Wolf, for a moment, I ask the MPs not to insult their own dignity, for the essence is not whether anyone travels or lives. The point is whether he respects the congregation’s decision or does not respect the congregation’s decision and whether or not he has a right to do what he does. If Nadia Momirov thinks tents should be placed in front of the Assembly and sleeping in tents, please suggest it, perhaps the Assembly will vote. Don't insult each other as MPs and yourself, and then blame the devil when the newspapers write about it. Therefore, I ask that everyone be thought of, as they would say, in Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29060	Mr. Angelkovic, let me say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29061	Mr. Wolfie, you'll tell me when I say it, not when you want. I could have respected the Rules of Procedure, not to let you stand by the pay phone while I speak, but to show up afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29062	I have to say one thing, I got in accordance with law 61 square feet from the state, and the rest paid. These G17 thieves have so far robbed about 55m euros and the biggest thieves, led by Nadzica Momirov and Mladjan Dinkic, will have to end up where the biggest thieves belong. There's no big philosophy here. I thought their boss was someone else, and I didn't know that thieves were like this and they're talking about what. What account are you talking about? About that Gilas account? That Gilas account, see if it's true or not. It's hard for me to tell you that you're a liar, I don't like to say it, but find something like that, like I told you that, and it's not exactly that because I don't like to talk to ladies like that. It doesn't make sense. Maybe I wanted to, and I didn't say. It's not appropriate for me to say something like that. You're running out of arguments about Nova TV, you're out of arguments about Kosovo and Metohija, you're out of arguments about who's going to rob the money around Mobtel. Why do you have different signatures for refusing a lawsuit? Who faked it? How much money does it take to take? You're talking about bills here, what citizens, ordinary people, who don't steal money, can't have. You thieves, you steal 50 million euros each. If you have anything to arrest us, do anything. You're the worst cowards and the biggest thieves, because that's not the point of government. You will attack opposition parties. You don't think there's any way anyone can answer that? There are those who are not afraid of you, there are those who dare to tell you everything in their faces. And since the greatest sin of Natasha Jovanovic is that she slept even three times at the Moscow Hotel, in the cheapest room, since it is the greatest sin, say how much money you got for it so that you didn't sleep in the Hotel "Moscow", how much money you raised for it, and what is nothing illegal, 7,000, and its nighting 3,000. Who stole the state money, you or Natasha Jovanovic? I'd say you took a little more and not a little more than a lot more. Don't tell people about kids. I have two children, one in eight, one in four years. Then why are you telling us about your child? Be a little more polite and cultured, don't throw yourself out of place, get a little civilized and answer the question whether 10 billion is an optimistic offer for Kosovo, according to the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. That's the key question. If that's an optimistic offer, then let's talk differently. Maybe you'll fence up. I expect you'll be fenced from what the Deputy Prime Minister said on ART TV last night. I hope that one day you will be fenced, not constantly embezzling, because that is what Serbia would be able to say hello.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29063	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29064	Dear colleagues, of course, I have not reported that I would oppose a colleague who is obviously just learning parliamentaryism and is just trying to understand how parliament works, what is a MP and probably won't have time to learn it, because it has almost arrived and will never come to this parliament again. Such a political option has no perspective in this Serbia. But I have volunteered to protect not only the integrity of our MPs, who is and how threatened by these statements by our colleagues, and then, of course, gives cream to all those who are malicious and who do everything to humiliate parliament, to undermine the status of MPs, to lose our reputation in the people and to make the people uninterested at all in political action in Serbia or to stay at home in some future elections, in abstinence, believing that there is no reason to go to the vote, because in this way they will introduce some 250 people who will have some privileges in parliament. You all know that we don't have any special privileges, that most of us act in accordance with the law and get only what the law provides, but first of all, I came forward because my colleague insulted me, I mean half of Serbian citizens who have unpaid bills today. Here, I have a bunch of unpaid bills for last month and even some for last month. You don't seem to know where you live. Not all of them can pay their wages regularly for everything they have to, electricity, rent, water, phones. No, dear lady... (President: Mrs. Momirov, calm down, don't throw away, and Mr. Wolf, my task is to warn her and not yours. )......................................................................................................... Most of us MPs live very modestly. I'm on my way. I have three children. This year there's only one kid going on a vacation. I'm not going on vacation either, and I'll see where you get back from your flight. It's because I only live on this salary, whatever it is. Believe me, it's little to me for my three children who I'm schooling in Belgrade, and it seems to you that a lot of what you're getting, God knows who. Therefore, if we are talking about thieves, and you said that thieves are the ones who don't pay the bills, what is Mr Dinkic who won't pay the salaries to federal officials and MPs in the Federal Assembly? These are our colleagues we have chosen here to go to that parliament, and he now publicly declares that he does not want to pay the wages and that they have to deal with some socially useful work, to go to cut grass or work in the field, although by law they have to take a year's pay. That's the law. It may not be good, but we have a law that applies to us, which says that after the term of office, we receive a salary for six months, and so does those MPs. He gives himself the right to stop something that under the law has to pay a man, which is his basic right as an ex-officer and he's not a thief. It's a thief over thieves. First, he's a criminal for what he broke into the People's Bank, the way he got in, and he'll be responsible for it eventually. You think everything's going to stay the way it is today? It's impossible. So one day they're going to have to settle those accounts. Crime needs to be answered. Whoever we catch in crime, he's gone, he's got to be where he belongs. No one can convince Serbia's public that Dinkic is not a criminal. Half the government members are criminals. Please, when someone as Deputy Prime Minister, and above all not the first woman, Milka Planinc was prime minister in that great Yugoslavia, so Mrs Nikolic was Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, you forgot, and what difference does it make whether she is a woman or not? You remember we warned Kostunica about a lot of things when she was elected. Here, we read in the paper how she laughs and supports the statements of Mr Canka, who calls such an ugly, ugly epithet of the name of Prime Minister Kostunica, and she sits in his government, and he does not react to such a thing. There's something not normal: either he's not normal, or she's not normal, or we're all crazy about such a government being put up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29065	Thank you. The word is Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29066	I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, for the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think it's allowed to insult the MPs and the MP group, party G17 plus. What's unique to you is to stick certain things to people like thieves. We're honorable, responsible, honest people and I think it's clear. This is where the rule of law works, and whoever's guilty should definitely go to court, and this talk about thieves is your marketing political attempt to convince the public of Serbia of certain things. You are well aware that both Mr Dinkic and the G17 plus MP group G17 plus here in the Serbian Parliament are great fighters for the introduction of order, tycoon fighters, the bankruptcy mafia, which is clear to you. I don't think you should mention "Mobtel", or Karic, because it's obvious that we're counting against both the tycoon and these things. We are people who respect the law, do serious and responsible work for Serbia's progress. What I want here is to appeal that we return to the agenda, because this doesn't lead us to anything. I think that as responsible people, we should commit ourselves to laws in the National Assembly that are on the agenda, and all of this leads to one process of stalling in the adoption of the same laws. I ask one seriousness and dignity of this home to continue our work on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29067	I thank Mr. Albianic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr. Albianic was saying, these are arguments that he can talk about and we can argue with, but it's a more civilized speech than we just heard. Mr. Albianic didn't hear what his MP said here. That's what surprises me. I know what the reasons are. The people who listened could see where that hatred came from. Think of the MPs, from everything that was said, where did this hatred come from? Think about the criticism of what I was saying on a television and ask yourself is that a reason? I think that's the reason, and that's why these frustrations were shown here in such a brutal way. I think it is good for the citizens of Serbia to hear it from time to time, and I am asking you, Mr. Albianic, as a man, as head of Nadica Momirov -- is it an optimistic offer for Kosovo and Metohija 10 billion euros? This was said last night on Art TV by Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic. I ask you, does the country have any or no price? I don't think Serbia's for sale, and when something isn't for sale, then there's no price. Does this mean that Serbia is for sale? I ask you if you agree with that view of the Deputy Prime Minister or do you disagree with that view of the Deputy Prime Minister, and that is all I can ask you and what I expect to answer for. This whole other party bickering, ideanic, ideological, people know and the people know that they recognize you and us, both about us and about you. I expect an answer from you, because that's the key question, to ask the Deputy Prime Minister if it's true that she said this, because we have a tape, we can put it on your mind. So let's ask the prosecutor if he has a tape, whether the prosecutor will ex-officio respond, because the state prosecutor would have to react because of doing one of the most serious crimes against the Republic of Serbia by one of the highest officials of the Republic of Serbia, to trample and destroy the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, and that's the thing I'm interested in, which I'm interested in. Please let me get an answer to that. Here I was talking about the subject, talking about what is the subject of this law, and then suddenly provoked to what I was saying on New TV, where I defended the Serbian people and the Serbian state in the Zagreb study, Nadica Momirov appeared to criticise me, only because I said that the action "Storm" was a criminal action, just because I said that Serbs were tortured in the territory of today's Croatia, that even today they are harassing Serbs. What was a shame in what I said to God people, that I had the courage to defend my Serbia, my people and my country in Zagreb, if it was a shame, if it hurt so much, I'm surprised. Please only if you have the answer, you have, and if you don't, there's no need for anything. I'm only interested in whether ten billion dollars is an optimistic offer or not an optimistic offer, but whether it's a private position as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and I'm just wondering what you'd ask for if any of the Serbian radicals asked for it. I am happy that none of the representatives of the SRS have ever put a price tag on any part of Serbia's state territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29069	The word is "Milloljub Albianic," a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29070	Very short. The question has been asked to me, but you seem to be weakly following developments in the Serbian Parliament and outside the Assembly, and I will tell you this: G17 plus supports the state negotiating team for the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. The state negotiating team has a platform, the negotiating team's report was all supported by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one has the right to sell a single inch of Serbia's territory. No one has the right to do that. I don't know what kind of shows you're listening to and watching, and what it's about. But it also raises a serious question whether we had the right to let the foreign army in 1999 under the Constitution of Serbia enter our territories. No one has the right to sign these things. On the other hand, if you wanted a personal attitude, you could read in the column in "Blica", so my column – Vidovdan, and it would be clear to you when I compared Stojan Novakovic's time and today that it is the same, only today it's a little worse. And that my personal position here clearly shows that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia and whatever was happening by the international community, it is not possible for Kosovo to take away from us. Both Kosovo and the Holy Sava are an integral part of the Serbian people and of the Serbian national being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29071	Here you go, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29072	I tried very hard to be very precise in my presentation. I read Mr. Albianic's column, as I read it all, as I try to watch it all. So, you would be my respected colleagues in power, I'm sure, happy and proud of my opposition colleague as I acted in a Zagreb study defending Serbian national interests, I'm quite certain of that, except for some, of course, for my unknown reasons. I have to tell you something, Mr. Albianic, I read your column, I was pleasantly surprised. I'm not asking you that, I'm asking you something else. You're telling me to lie about what I'm asking you, I have a video, Mr. Albianic, where Ivana Dulic, on last night's show on ART TV, because Sunday is not for vacation, but to watch, to see what political opponents are doing, to see what they've been up to against the SRS and not to tell me what else she's been saying, because this was crucial to me, and that's a ten billion optimistic offer for Kosovo. I ask you, if this is the official position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I asked the government's representatives, or the DSS, so Europe invests in Kosovo, and it's funny for you and the citizens of Serbia who listen. You know exactly what that was about. It's a much sadder story than this. As far as the foreign army in Kosovo is concerned, it's absolutely against the constitution, and we were speaking from this pay phone, here we were the only ones who opposed that Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan and we were the only ones against what came up as a military-technical agreement under the political agreement, which was the Kuman Agreement, and all DOS parties supported it at that time. That's why I'm proud to be a member of the SRS, and that's why I'm always going to brag and brag about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29073	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have only two reported and two independent MPs per five minutes, the word has a National MP, Blagica Kostic, and let the MP Branislav Stevanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29074	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already entered the process of amending and supplementing this law several times before, and these changes were really necessary and necessary. And as the process goes on, it is clear that the law in general is not good and that even a few years ago, when the first changes and additions were made, it should have been thoroughly changed or passed a new law, retaining the basic idea that this law also has - which is the independence of the regulatory body for the radio-difusion area. Although I respect the promoter's representatives, I believe that these changes and additions, which are now on the agenda, are more like a dilettante agreement than the law. If Article 25 of the now applicable Radio-Difusion Act stipulates that members of the Council cannot be persons who are legally convicted of a criminal offence against official duty, corruption, fraud, theft or other act which makes them unworthy to perform their duties regardless of the sanction imposed or who have been convicted of any other criminal offence for a period of six months, then what does Article 5 of this Act mean in the proposal, which reads: "If a criminal offence has been brought against a member of the Council, which makes him unworthy of acting as a member, the Council may, by two-thirds of the total number of its members, decide to suspend a member of the Council until the end of the criminal proceedings". What does it mean, from the point of view of determining someone's criminal responsibility, to initiate a criminal procedure? The criminal proceedings are brought by a public prosecutor by prosecution. There's a complaint on that charge. The prosecution of a public prosecutor may also be dismissed. What about the presumption of innocence until someone's guilt and responsibility is determined? Proposers of this law may have mixed disciplinary responsibility in some enterprise with criminal responsibility. Furthermore, in Article 6 of this proposal, the law provides for consent to the financial plan of the Broadcasting Agency to be given by the Government, not by the Assembly. Have you forgotten that the Republic Broadcasting Agency must have nothing to do with the government? Why are you trying at all costs to restore the relationship of addiction, and the most difficult ones -- financial addictions? Next, in Article 8. The bill states: "For the purpose of controlling the amount of foreign capital in the total capital of the licence holder, the authorisation holder is required to obtain the prior consent of the Agency for each investment by a foreign natural or legal person in its underlying capital." Gentlemen, it is not the Agency that should give consent to foreign investments, to increase or reduce capital. The Agency must inform itself of the change in the amount of foreign capital and if there is a change that exceeds the allowed percentage, the law shall apply. Providing the Agency's prior consent to any foreign investment, it certainly cannot, nor should it remain, because it is contrary to existing financial laws. In Article 10. The proposal for this law, the deadline within which the broadcaster is required to start broadcasting the programme from the day of admission, has been extended from 60 days to 180 days. So much for lobbying. Such a change at this time, when the public competition procedure has not yet been completed, must not and cannot be adopted. The public competition is under certain conditions prescribed by this law. Changing the proposition while the procedure is still pending is forbidden. What about those who have not applied because, among other things, they have estimated that they will not be able to start within the time limit provided for by the law, so within 60 days? Article 52 provides for everything to be reported to a public competition. After point 7, the paragraph proposed to delete describes enough the possibility that any other documentation held by the holder may be presented to the Agency for insight, which is decided by the applicant himself, because it is a document which is not tax and mandatory, as necessary for participation in the competition. (President: You're out of time. Bring the end. I'm sorry. Please let me finish. By inserting the proposed application, the applicant shall also supply other evidence and documentation at the request of the Agency, in accordance with the acts of the Agency. We come to this: inaccuracy in relation to obligation. When the law provides for the conditions under which something is to be done or the documents are to be taxed, evidence that must be attached to participation in a procedure or obtaining certain rights must be done precisely, clearly, and unequivocally. There is no place in the legal text in the words "he is obliged to deliver other evidence and documentation". If he is obliged, then he must specify exactly what evidence he must deliver. Such a proposal may have only one consequence: abuse in interpretation and different application from case to case. When something is not clear and precise, and it is packed in a form of obligation, as a rule, it produces abuse in interpretation, inaccuracy and inaccuracy of the law itself, which leads to violations of the law. I'll continue when we talk about details. Finally, all those who signed this bill were members of the Committee on Culture and Information, and the Committee sessions, before this point was put on the agenda, were not. The Minister of Culture promised the expert public the day before we got this proposal that arrived I don't know how before you, the expert debate. Also, when I proposed to amend the Radio Diffusion Act, which envisioned the release of the poorest layers of the population of TV subscription and which obliged the broadcaster - public service to provide a signal to all Serbian citizens in the entire territory of the Republic, the law was rejected without debate on the Committee on Culture and Information, and without debate here. Then, I expect that this proposal will be declared by the Legislative Committee, since there are a large number of members who are in direct contrast with both the Criminal Code and the Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29075	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29076	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the DSS, I am an authorised representative for this item of the agenda, and I will use my right to comment on some of the allegations from previous presentations, including some of the Blagoica colleagues concerned by the law itself. Now I'm reporting to the replica, so as a pronoun of this law, because my colleague, Mildred, has brought out something that is not true. It is true that we who have proposed this law are members of the Committee on Culture and Information, but in this case it has nothing to do with it. The legislator is a group of MPs and there is no business obligation for this law to be previously reviewed at the meeting of the Information Committee. Miss Kostic, you know this well and do not take it out of this talkative statement that deceives Serbian citizens. As far as the Committee's role is concerned, he will hold his session in the process of reviewing the law. She was already scheduled for 10.15 hours, so we moved her until this principle debate ended. So, the Committee will plead, which is his obligation under the Rules of Procedure, both on the law in general and on the law in particular, and then on the law in general. We'll end it today. It is also not true that the Legislative Committee did not declare this law. To follow the work of the session a little while ago and sit in the hall, you had a written report on the table of the Legislative Committee, which has also adopted the law in principle and assessed that all three amendments, which have been submitted to this law, are legally possible. That's what we all have on our tables, that's what you had to get.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29077	The word has a folk ambassador, Blagica Kostic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29078	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not deceived the public, and these days you will hear much more from the professional public.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29079	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate absolutely reminds me of the law when we had on enrollment of free EPS actions, NIS and PTT and absolutely on that day when we discussed this point there were no speakers reported either. Also today, no MPs group, no party has reported their speakers, although the topic is very important, and surely it's not funny, gentlemen, I don't see what you're laughing at. I want to say that this law, the bill itself, is not respected because one group of MPs has proposed the law, but I do believe that one of the competent persons should still be seated in these benches and professionally respond to any objections, if any. The amendments of individual MPs alone lead to a greater dictatorship and certainly more control of the media by the authorities, and nothing else in this bill I honestly see. Also, for several months now, we have a media campaign related to the Radio-Difusing Council and, of course, I must say, although I am not in favour of praising ministers, I must commend this opportunity to Mr. Kojidinović, the minister who has made it very objectively public with regard to the control of the media and the impact on the Radio-Difuge Agency itself. The choice of members of that agency tells everything and does not require specific details of who these people are, who suggested them, how and how. Also, I have a great deal of objection when it comes to decentralisation. I wonder how the MPs of the parties who advocate general decentralisation, the MPs from Vojvodina, the south of Serbia and certain parts of the Forest, are responding to general decentralisation, and also to the decentralisation of the media, gentlemen. Here's a TV "Kosha" against which I have nothing, usually looking at late hours sometimes that TV, they have nothing else to broadcast except that pornography. Unfortunately, such a non-serious television to get a national frequency without getting it, I don't want to favour any television now, whether it's from Vojvodina or from the south of Serbia or from the forest, not to get some TVs that are really represented and that cover half of Serbia's areas, and they can't get a national frequency. So it's a total injustice when it comes to decentralisation and culture, sports, and even economy at all. Just one example to say, which has nothing to do with this subject, but it is important for the decentralisation itself, which is that in the interior of Serbia, a small number of cities can provide some ordinary services, say a fracture of arms or cuts, so people have to come to Belgrade. That's what I've been paying more attention to. I can't agree with the fact that the national frequency must only have TV from Belgrade. What's he saying? This speaks of total government domination, and MPs from the interior do not have the courage or have the right to oppose all that seems to be the issue. Media control is absolute and, unfortunately, as long as the government has a majority in parliament, it will be able to elect its members of the agency and will be able to directly influence the agency. When I mentioned the TV "Koshasha", gentlemen, it is said in public that there is a politician or businessman in the background. So if he has huge resources and has big money, he's, of course, in co-operation with power, he can simply get a national frequency, which is really very scandalous. Also, the necessity of the Information Act, which I have repeatedly mentioned, is necessary to pass a new information law. For what? First of all, and for our own sakes, we're being mocked. We also had a chance to see the President of the Assembly in various front pages, etc. A number of our magazines publishes even child pornography, and we need to seriously imagine what our printing press, what television shows, at which time intervals, how it works on our youth and what happens next. We're the ones who need to start this idea, we're the ones who need to pass certain laws that will prevent such a thing from happening in everyday life. I also have an objection to the Public Service, the editor-in-chief, Mr. Tijanic, has, we know, been the adviser to Prime Minister Kostunica, which means that he says in himself who can be the first man of that television and for whom this television will work. I'm not saying that from the previous government he was dominated by the Public Service in relation to the present, but in a somewhat reduced intensity, it is absolutely evident that only the ruling parties are favored and nothing else. So, the aim of this law, gentlemen, is whether we want to admit it or not, is one single one, and that's just more control and more dictatorship over the media in Serbia. What you were talking about democracy, this has nothing to do with democracy, gentlemen. Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman, for putting me through a minute more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29081	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. National MP Vukosav Tomašević, authorised representative of the DSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29082	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention nor was it our intention from the DSS to talk about this law. However, in previous discussions several claims have been made that do not correspond to what is the essence of this law and do not correspond to the facts and that is why I will try to explain something and help make things clearer. I'm going to try really hard not to challenge the replicas of my colleagues. It's not my intention to replicate and open up a debate. It's my intention to explain things. So, the first thing about the Law on Radio-Difusion, from the moment the law was passed, that is, at the time he was in the assembly procedure in 2002, it was known that this law would have to endure changes and additions very quickly. That was known for two reasons. The first thing, this is a transitional law, a law that regulates an area that changes in practice and accordingly, and then it was clear that the law would have to endure changes and additions that would impose practice. On the other hand, people who were then involved in lawmaking, there are a lot of colleagues here and there is no Mr. Vukic, he was then, was a colleague of Stojanović, colleague Rajko Baralić and others who then worked also in the Committee on Information and Culture, and I was, and we were very involved in the law. And then we pointed out certain shortcomings, failures and shortcomings of this law. Unfortunately, however, then our voice went blank, or then the legislators refused to accept any objections. I remind you that the law was done by a group of people in the NGO sector. They were very hard-core to defend their version of the law and had the absolute support of the then Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac. The final version of the law they passed in the congregation was treated as the Holy Scriptures. You couldn't change any commas in that law because they said no, either one way or not. So that was one attitude that then made it impossible for some rational changes to be made in the law. After that, what happened, in a political sense, I remind you that this law was passed in this room without DSS MPs, without our ability to, at that time, in plenary debate and through amendments, change this law, because then all 45 DSS MPs were illegally removed from the National Assembly. That this is exactly what I'm talking about is the fact that today's what we've been doing is the fifth amendment to this law over the past four years. What Mrs Stojanovic, as an authorised promoter, said on behalf of the law enforcement officer, if you have followed well, is also true: these are not essential changes and additions to this law. So what we've suggested doesn't essentially affect, does not change the concept of the existing Radio Diffusion Act. There's a need, and I think we'll all agree on that, first of all, that practice imposes it, that access be made to a whole new radio-diffusion law. I hope that this work will begin in the autumn and I hope that this assembly meeting, and the Committee on Culture, and all people who are both professionally and in any other respect interested in this, will have the strength and capacity to adopt a new law in this assembly. Of course, with the support of the professional public and through public debate, let the voice of all interested people be heard and that's fine. But what we're doing now, and what we're hopefully about to adopt, is not fundamental changes. These are changes that have also been imposed by practice. These changes should essentially allow for the practical implementation of the Agency's decisions. If we want to look at the thing outside of politics, at some point when the competition is called, when the Agency has made some decisions, we have seen that there is a legal gap for the realisation of those decisions. Now these changes make it better. These changes create legal assumptions and practical mechanisms to implement the decisions of the Broadcasting Agency in practice. I say again, God forbid we have the strength and capacity to pass this new law. Now a few things that I think need to be explained. First thing, colleague Kostic, I'm not going to replicate again, I don't know how you read this 180-day term in article 10. It's not 180 days, it's 120 days. I'm talking like someone who's worked at a radio station for 15 years, run a radio station. This is an improvement for practical reasons. The current law states that from the moment you get permission, you have to start broadcasting the program within 60 days. You will admit that this is difficult for newly established cells, and practice shows that competitions appear with newly established cells and are licensed. Everyone who understands electronic journalism knows that in 60 days it's almost impossible to buy equipment, find location, rooms, organize an editorial and start a program. For that reason, we extended this deadline. We think it's better for the emitters themselves. One more thing I want to underline here is Article 13, where we've reduced four times the state's tax, or the intrusion of radio emitters. I think this is a significant improvement in the economic position of the radio emitter, because one part of the money that's supposed to be on the side so far. So I think everyone who's doing this broadcast will welcome this regulation. When it comes to Article 10, the question has been asked -- what about those who have applied so far. It is clear that neither this member nor the complete bill has a retroactive character. This applies to those who will apply from the day of the adoption of the law. There is no unfavourable position for participants in previous competitions, because the law does not have a retroactive character and it is quite clear. Finally, something that surprised me with my colleague Stevanovic, he talks about repression in Serbia. I don't see how and how what we've submitted, which, I think, will be adopted tomorrow, can improve or worsen any media position in Serbia at all, because this essentially doesn't affect the position of the media, is essentially one technical change, which should make it possible to implement the decisions of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in practice more easily and efficiently. I hope that this law will receive the support of this congregation majority tomorrow and that it will come into force immediately. I only remind you of one fact. Without this law, that is, without these amendments that we propose, when it comes to implementing decisions of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, we can have such chaos on the air and we can fully consider the role of this independent body. The agency is independent and should remain independent. But look at this. There are currently 71 radio stations in Belgrade that broadcast the programme. A competition for the 14-frequency assignment has been launched, 14 radio stations have been granted work permits. I'm telling you, none of the other 57 will stop working voluntarily. We all know who owns the radio station in Belgrade. It's also tourist agencies, and airlines, and bakeries, and sports clubs, and none of them will willingly accept the Agency's decision to stop broadcasting the programme tomorrow. For this reason and for all future competitions and other competitions that follow, and then local competitions, in order to be able to implement the Agency's decisions, it is necessary to accept these changes and additions. This does not end the administrative procedure. The right to judicial protection is left to all those who are dissatisfied with the Agency's decisions, the right to administrative proceedings is also left, but only one thing is lifted, you cannot broadcast the programme while the administrative procedure is ongoing. Stop it, honor the Agency's decision, leave the transmitter, appeal to all court cases and wait for the court to rule. You're wondering what's gonna happen if the court finds someone right. Have him get a court order and a court fee. He'll be justly compensated. The mechanism exists and is very easy to implement. But it's impossible and completely devising the Agency's competition institution and decision that I won't get permission, and then complain, and then this dispute will take a few years, and in the meantime I'm ignoring the Agency's decision and all the facts and I'm broadcasting the program. That's what's inadmissible and what needs to be interrupted in practice. I call on all my colleagues to support these amendments and additions, that this law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29083	National MP Blagica Kostic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29084	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Tomaševic, was to be a member of the Security Committee before the Committee on Culture. This is why I appeal to fellow Members of Parliament, who have their integrity, not to vote for this proposal tomorrow which is ahead of us and why I urge the motion itself to withdraw this proposal while it can still get out unsullied. I really can't believe this proposal was in the government, so that Mr. Kostunica, as a legalist, would forward it to the National Assembly. Why am I saying this? Article 62(6) provides that the objection to a decision is to delay the implementation of the decision. Article 7 provides that an administrative dispute may be initiated against the decision taken under the appeal. After that, the logical position is deleted and the position which provides for the broadcaster to implement, without delay, the final decision of the Council on the withdrawal of the authorisation and, if it does not, the procedure for forced enforcement of the Council's decision in accordance with this law will be carried out. By eradicating the earlier position, it is clear that the court's right to suspend its decision in the course of proceedings in the administrative dispute and immediately points to the finality of the decision and its enforceability. It is about shortening the procedure in which a decision to prohibit the broadcasting of the programme becomes a final decision. This is contrary to the international Charter of Human Rights and Article 10. Only a program that promotes hatred, religious impatience, and so on can be banned. Article 64a - an attempt to shorten the procedure in which one decision to prohibit the broadcasting of the programme becomes the final decision draws with it another illogicality, which is the proposed new member on the procedure for implementing the Council's decision. The promoter goes so far as to deal with the executive procedure in the members of this law, which is or should be the same for all, as all laws provide in their application, and not just this law. So you're breaking the Constitution and the principle that all citizens are the same under the law. The fact that an executive procedure for applying decisions made by the Agency is described here indicates that it represents a precedent. the exemption from the normal procedure for all final executive decisions in court and administrative proceedings. The proposed member foresees - the broadcaster is obliged to suspend the programme immediately after delivery of the Council decision, no legal remedy, no objection, no administrative dispute, no final decision, but the very fact that the decision has been delivered means the obligation of the broadcaster to immediately suspend the broadcasting of the programme, then the promoter deals with the description of the delivery method. By reading further this article, we find out that the Agency is transforming itself from decision-makers to a direct decision-maker through its own individuals, who are determined by some legitimacy, whose design is re-determined by the Agency. The Agency’s last view provides for a shy opportunity to ask for the assistance of the MUP, if necessary, and we already see that with such a proposed member it should be taken optionally, because such broad powers for the forced enforcement of decisions that the Agency does not even have for itself, nor does Minister Jocic. Finally, Article 68, the obligation of broadcasters to respect the programme's content to respect the ban on advertising of political organisations outside the pre-election campaign. What does that mean specifically? Advertising in commercials or political shows? There is no television program that daily does not contain advertising of a political organisation by participating their members in different content shows, of fun, sports, political, information and the like. The definition is totally declarative and inaccurate. The second part – "and during the pre-election campaign to ensure equal representation without discrimination" – can make sense, but we must bear in mind that it is already covered by the Advertising Act. I thank you and I really appeal to Members of Parliament who have the integrity to refuse something like this in the voting day. I have to point out that rejection means just a card out, and I can't be held back.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29085	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29086	Ladies and gentlemen, an authorised representative of the DSS tried to demean my speech and simply had no real argument on it. I'd like to ask my colleague if he's up for some television from his region to get a national frequency. In my case, I just named the TV "Kosha". Is it possible that no TV in Serbia has better conditions and more ratings than "Kosha" TV? That comparison itself speaks about what it is, whether it has anything to do with objectivity and reality. I'll give you another example from my community. When I attended a meeting of the congregation in direct transmission local television broadcasts to the congregation, I was talking about 3,000 employees in Kolubara. When I said the procedure and the way that the government in previous privatisations, since I was a member of the Privatisation Committee, what should happen to those same people, before me was a dozen people who spoke, and only I was tonically distracted on that local television, and more than ever since, I can never visit local television. A national MP outside the municipality cannot host on local television just because he is an opposition MP, and the authorities in Lazarevec are doing absolutely the same party as in the Serbian government. So that's two strong arguments to tell you about democracy. You don't have a single argument to stand up to me, to say that you as the ruling majority don't influence this Broadcasting Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29087	The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević has the word, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you have been misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29088	I said I had no intention and I wouldn't in my speech to challenge anyone in replication. I'm surprised what his colleague reacted to. I just denied his claim that this law is making it worse in any way, he said, the position of the media in Serbia. I'm saying it's not getting worse, it's not getting better. He doesn't change because our proposal essentially doesn't touch that. That's a fact. My friend, I don't want to lecture you on democracy, but don't lecture me either. If you're already picking on a bear, I want to tell you something, when you're discussing something, then you need to learn what you're discussing, so when you're talking about national frequencies, you need to know that national frequencies are being obtained by someone reporting to the competition. As far as I know, there was no one from the Woodland or the Vojvodina. The fact that there is no one among the winners of the Shumadia and Vojvodina frequency is not a matter of any violation of the law, nor of any political will that you speak of, but of the simple fact that no one has reported. No one called from the region I came from. So, you can't get permission from someone who hasn't answered. What you're talking about local TV has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. It has nothing to do with what's going on on local television in Lazarevec with what we're talking about today, or the frequency distribution, or the Agency's work. It's something else entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29089	Replica, MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29090	Since the previous speaker belongs to the legalists, let him explain the situation that the broadcasting agency is stronger than the court. Since it's your judiciary, what kind of synchronization are you in? Explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29091	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON ORGANISATION AND THE WORK OF THE SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA You have adopted a proposal for a decision, which has been submitted by the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does National MP Petar Cvetkovic, deputy chairman of the Administrative Committee, want a word? He's not here. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that one parliamentary group, the Serbian Radical Party, has submitted a list with a proposal for one speaker to present. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29092	Mr. Mihailovich, I'm taking views of the SRS, I'm not putting out, someone else is in charge of it. It's completely expected when someone doesn't trust someone to suspect him. Since we had doubts about the Belgrade Agreement, we doubted the sincere intention that the state union would survive, and the evidence of doubt was too much -- the very way of signing the Belgrade Agreement, the fact that this creation was later referred to as "Solania", the fact is that the three-year deadline for it to resolve whether the state union as a wizard of the sky or on earth -- all pointed out that democratic authorities, and those far more democratically, in Serbia-Montenegro, will go towards the decommissioning of the SRJ, by moving away the two states of the republic. Those who suspected and criticized, on June 6th, they also got proof that they were right from the start. So when, on behalf of the SRS, when the moves of those who call themselves Democrats and great respecters of the letter of the law and of the constitution, then I remind the citizens, believe always the radicals, never speak to themselves, always bring the truth. In that euphoria when some were blowing balloons, and some others that associate the balloon, celebrated that one flag fell, which some people were left without a job, were not aware of one consequence, which is that the newly created independent Republic of Serbia has become a follower of not only the international and legal subjectivity of the former state or the Federation, but of some allegedly state communities, and it has become as a Succesor and a republic of the state that is obliged to take care of its citizens. As is the obligation to take care of those who are employed in the SCG Army, so everyone by law took over, so all others who were employed in the so-called so-called. the institutions of the state community. But unlike the military, there has been quite a selectivity here among those who have coalition capacity and form the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This selectivity is reflected in what is being taken over, something is being put on ice, and something is being expelled. So, military employees have been taken over, even two ministers, two citizens, Stankovic and performers of the husband of Danica Draskovic. Here it is said, when making that epochal decision, that they are not based on that decision by ministers. However, they already introduced themselves as ministers that evening. As you can see, this "smacks" around the world, and it appears to be the foreign minister. I asked a parliamentary question, if I were to sue him, would he have immunity? Judging by falsely representing himself as a minister, he would have no protection provided by immunity. But since he's sitting right next to the knee of those who have coalition capacity, that these coalition partners are legally recognising him as foreign minister, I get the impression there's some kind of protection, so if he's already got some immunity, why would I sue him. However, journalists also have immunity, not so pronounced. Usually, when you sue them, you get an out-of-date criminal case in court, so they're protected. But that's a different story. Since they did not take over by the letter of the law and by automation, there was a strong expression of selectivity. In this selectivity, all those who are close to the parties that make up power, and here I must mention not only those who are in government, but also those who are across the street in the presidency building, all who have introduced themselves to their staff being well-inhabited. So no decision of the National Assembly was needed, nor was the Administrative Committee, but some were taken from the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly towards political membership. That must be said publicly, according to political belongings. When the army was taken over, no special regulations were laid down. There are two regulations that regulate it. One regulation is so dangerous that in August, a number of them will get a break from working relationships, but the problem is what to do with those who have done well. How'd they do? There's a political party's membership card. Of course, now I'm not talking about the Democratic Party, but about the parties that make up the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'm talking about DSS, G17 plus, which is exactly the same as JUL, New Serbia, SPO and probably those who support something, although I suspect someone from Mikhailovic's party has taken over. They have different principles when they take over. I'm not even sure about the SPS that they've taken anything, because they're quite conditioned by the fact that they've taken a vow of allegiance to Vojislav Kostunica. As a result, this decision came. Let me remind you, she's proposing for this session, and this session is an extraordinary session. You have received a convocation, agenda, item two, and on page three, you will see that there is, within the G17 Plus parliamentary group, a circled Markovic Predrag. Probably those G17 plus fake representations. He was here declaring himself not a member of that party, but they're still taking him on the list here. Maybe he's a member of JUL, never mind. I see he's falsely representing himself here as being in G17 plus. A decision has come to arrange the organization and work of the National Assembly. Let me just tell you that radicals have made three amendments to this decision. Why only three amendments? The three most impressive ones, because we know you have 126 votes, and you're going to vote that, and there's no need now to explain more in detail what this decision is about. But let me tell you, it had to be applied to some pretty legitimate analogy. If members of the military and military personnel have been taken over by automation, then everyone who works in the state institutions of the state community on the same criteria has to take over. If this is not done in the same way, it is an act of heavy discrimination. What you have against your Shami, that's your problem. I wouldn't be surprised if he came along as a substitute for the National Assembly president, but that's your problem, that's not what I'm talking about. If that comes up on the agenda, we'll talk about it. The excuse that there is no means absolutely does not stand. If there were funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to finance the institutions of the state union, the funds are not a problem. What's the problem? The problem is selectivity. Some have to work, and some, as someone said, get along, pick cherry, process agriculture. That's what the new democratic government has come up with for them. And who came up with it? Whoever destroyed the SRJ, concluded the Belgrade Agreement, allegedly formed a state community for clean bills, and you know what these accounts were for these three years, these allegedly left, they hardly welcomed and now they can't wait to crush this few people that were in the institutions of the state community. In this crush, of course, Rasim Ljajic did well. So, that's to say, because as those who have been working on representing the state community in international disputes, because the republican public defender says, I won't, I'm going to receive people from the DSS to complete the service and the 4,000 items you give to us, similar to the war crimes documents against Serbs. So, hidden somewhere in some bunker, you can't look, you can get Carla del Ponte whenever you want, but who needs to defend themselves, you can't win, and then you're the same ones who forbid television to complain about Nasera Oric's verdict. I'm saying this more because of the public, not because of the MPs present, because they got their authentic opinion before entering this room. What we look at is the difference between this decision that is proposed and the existing decision, because there is a big difference. The difference is that there are two completely unacceptable excuses, and they are found in the explanation of what the reasons for making a decision are. The first reason is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia took over the responsibilities of the former Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. If she has taken responsibility, she must also be taking over those who have helped to achieve that competence. It is now not taken over by those who are in office as civil servants or deputies. But that's why, besides one deputy secretary, he'll be another deputy secretary. It's not good for this guy who knows for 30 years how to do this job, but he needs the other guy who's employed there by the Shami in the Federal Assembly, and now somebody's gonna tell me from here that it's professional, that he's got a big increase in work. If there's been a big increase in the job, take them all. So this is where you talk about how the National Assembly is moving into that building, and then some bridges, and then something's renovating, so this, that, and at the same time, you're leading the action against the National Assembly, attacking MPs in the paper to demean this institution. Who's gonna take that by the tail and by the head? No one alive can catch, and then it's our fault the devil is the demeaning National Assembly, which is demeaning of the state. And who's belittled? So who cares if she falls on such low branches? Probably the ones who attack Wolfie for telling the truth on some television, so whoever's defending him, you figure it out yourself. Now let me say a little bit about these amendments, because this is a unique debate, so there's no way to specifically discuss these amendments. Three amendments have been tabled, and I hope that someone else will apply from the SRS for the discussion, and if not, let him apply. We have submitted three amendments, only to draw attention to both the MPs and the public, and also to these people who are in an awkward situation, because neither the guilty nor the debtors are left without a job, because someone put a finger on the head of the state to take care of it. Whoever couldn't even take care of his own house, he's taking care of the state. I will explain the amendment that we have submitted to Article 10(6), where we are asking for a change in the term of term of office for the assistant secretary, because the Administrative Committee has proposed that the assistant secretary be managed by the sector, placed in place for a period of five years and placed in the third group of positions, and we are asking that the deadline be four years and that is a normal deadline. I'll tell you right now, tie up your tail to your law on civil servants and deputies and the Ministry Act, where you've prescribed that the Secretary of State doesn't know what, and the assistant ministers are something, so the assistants are chosen by the competition for five years, so no normal government when it comes they won't respect it, but they'll change the law nicely and resolve all of your assistants, because you've piled up all your experts and that sectoral. What's holding the G17, what's holding the DSS, there's also non-schooled boards, not to talk, not to talk about the SPO and the little five-six he's provided, hook-ups for the state as they are. Four years is a normal deadline, and what Balinovac makes up, that if things change, so the continuity of work, so if it continues, that's what you think if you're going to be in power, that's your problem, think about it, but don't put yourself in an awkward situation. I don't know why the secretary would have to have two deputies. Here with one, Mr. Perisha, this job works extremely well, professionally, the service works fantasticly, the service that follows the amendments, follows the laws, the best service in the state, is that there are five, six or seven of them, and it can't miss the point of not being noticed, those people who are photocopying, fantastically working, the materials arrive in time, that I'm not talking about people who work in Parliament groups and other services, there are the secretaries of committees, committees, etc. If the responsibilities of the National Assembly have increased, let the number of employees be increased. And how? By taking over those people, because the state can't behave like a bankruptcy firm. You're telling us here that the state is acting like a bankruptcy firm, a bankruptcy procedure has opened up, it's stopped everyone's working relationship. Then you're saying that the state community went bankrupt, so let everyone stop working. And why do you choose? You choose alike, and for what it is, whether the godfather is one of the former, present, future officials, as anyone quotes in which party. We have submitted the third amendment concerning Article 13, where we are asking for these services to be reduced slightly, you do not need this sector for financial and material business and this sector for investment and technical and ongoing maintenance. And you hired that guy when democracy came along, hired a maintenance expert, and you know what kind of tenders they are, let others say it, it's not my jurisdiction. We ask that these two amendments be adopted, I just don't know how because of Markovic's Rules of Procedure, and these two sectors are not needed. But you haven't solved the central issue here. You have now said that the sector for international relations should be created, but you are free of that sector for international relations if the employees of the sector should complement Gordana Comic when she gets tired abroad, attacking the SRS, so the official should complement what the chief has missed. You don't need a clerk like that. You'll probably have a sector like that. You've been thinking about translators for a long time, about other things, and you have, take over the workers, and you know, voting on this decision, and I'm surprised we didn't vote on regulations within the meaning of the law when it comes to the working status of others who worked in institutions, because I have to remind you, as far as other institutions are concerned, that's where the burden of responsibility fell on Minister Loncar. He signed solutions for all who served Marovic and allegedly the five ministries, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, all of them legal. And I have to draw your attention, like it was before legal, so you've provided for the possibility of suspending a member of the Broadcasting Council because someone may have brought a criminal case against him, and even in the suspension, it's decided by the two-thirds majority of the members. What nebuloses are contained in that regulation, three days would only take to count. Instead of having a forced execution carried out by an authorized official of the Authority of the Authority, you will have the authority to do so by the one who has the power of attorney. Let me not tell you about legal-technical, legal-logical and mental nebulises that have been introduced into one regulation. This regulation does not have so many mental problems, but it exudes primal corruption, that someone hides behind the MPs and the National Assembly, why some have stopped working relationships, and why only some have been chosen to remain in a working relationship. What's their quality? Their quality is political favor, similarity, so why not say membership card. In order not to be so empty, please the chairman, in the form of a parliamentary issue, I ask the question, that an urgent answer is made: how many people were taken from the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly before this decision was made, where they were deployed, how many with the same school training and approximately the same work experience in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly worked people from the area of the person you took over, and why is that person taken over and not someone else? I would ask you for an answer, given that here a great deal of praise from the captain of the ship appears when he is alone in the media as the parliamentary questions are effectively delivered, because in a month and a half I haven't received any answers to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29093	Mr. Krassic, who are you asking?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29094	I'm asking a parliamentary question to the president of the National Assembly, because he's probably familiar with who changed jobs. When you reminded me, Mr. Mikhailovich, I must draw attention to the people who follow the legality of the acts adopted by the National Assembly. See what is written in Article 5. "The Secretary of the National Assembly adopts a regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which adopts the Administrative Board of the National Assembly." Making and adopting are synonyms for the same act called decision-making.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29095	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, who later appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29096	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we now have a decision on the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is usually just one sublegal act that regulates certain obligations of employees, professionals, etc., related to the functioning of the National Assembly and the exercise of the duties of Members of Parliament. However, one such proposal for a decision now has another dimension, which is that, at the very least, it can be said that such a decision has been ordered. The only thing missing from this decision is the names of people who will be assigned to certain functions in the National Assembly. Primaryly, it seems to me like it's a function post. So, they are not interested in the promoters, the authors of this proposal are employees of the already former assembly of the state community, but are interested in the posts that do not wish to lose to the decomposition of the state community, and, if possible, to transfer those posts, as if it were their own, as if they had inherited it from their parents, to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is seen in Article 8 of the motion for a decision, as stated in Section 1: "The Secretary of the National Assembly has two deputies, appointed by the National Assembly on the proposal of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly and who correspond to the National Assembly for their work". The question now arises – what about our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? In the Rules of Procedure, Article 34(2) says that the secretary in the National Assembly has one deputy who helps him do his duty. Any MP who votes for this decision violates his own Rules of Procedure. To make things worse, it violates the Rules of Procedure you brought, which you voted for. That same majority will now break the Rules of Procedure. We're talking about a new constitution. The Constitution for the State, for the functioning of the National Assembly, is the Rules of Procedure. The first thing that was when you came to power was to violate the Constitution. The unconstitutionally requested SRJ post as a new UN member is an unconstitutional Belgrade agreement, an unconstitutional state union. So whatever you bring in and you have to stick to it, you're breaking it. There are now such controversy over the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm interested in whether the first thing as soon as we vote it, if you are then in power, will violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing, when something like this is suggested, especially when attention is drawn in the very way of functioning and this decision itself, and it is stubbornly held back, then why didn't you write that the secretary of the National Assembly has two deputies, so you could write down their names. The lawyers say again -- it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because the Rules of Procedure are the same as this one, so it doesn't matter, which is the last one, it's interpreted. I know, but why didn't you write in the transitional and final provisions of this decision - it ceases to apply to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 34(2)? Why didn't you at least take it and change the Rules of Procedure first and make one of these decisions? Why does everything, even this decision, take place? The fact that it is functional places and that only they interest you, and not most employees, is seen in Article 13. Article 13 states: "The following organisational units are organised in the service of the National Assembly: The National Assembly President’s Office (let’s say that it is acceptable, the President of the Assembly, we will not belittle the MPs or the National Assembly); the Secretariat of the National Assembly (let’s say that it can also belong to the Secretary of the National Assembly); the Committee for the Affairs of Parliamentary Groups (let’s see if any of these professional and technical services will make it easier for Members to work when it starts to work). "The Labour Body Sector," we already have, nothing new. "The sector for international relations," you say now can be a reason to extend the authority of this assembly, because one of the reasons for the two deputy secretaries was -- the size of the job increases. Then why do we need the sector for international relations? The only increase in the volume of work is because the defence ministry and the foreign ministry are taking over. What do you need sectors for now, if you already have two deputy secretaries? So let one of them do something. Further, "The Department for Preparation and Processing of Sessions of the National Assembly". They're probably post office, expeditions, etc. Now watch out, seventh, eighth and ninth points, "Organization and Administrative Affairs" and then goes "The Financial and Material Affairs Sector", then goes "The Investment, Technical and Current Maintenance Sector". Couldn't all of this have been one sector? What's the problem here? Look, so the size of the job is the size of the job, what has to be done requires so many workers, but it doesn't take so many bosses. You're the boss's problem, you can't reward yours differently than inventing their boss's places. Furthermore, a question arises which workers are taking over. Here, on the Administrative Board, I received an answer that none of the employees from the former assembly of the state community moved on to permanent work in the Serbian Parliament, and I see some new faces here, some new workers, some new ones here who walk around the halls and sit around the offices. What's that supposed to mean, it's still going there, but he's already adventured the place here, where he's sitting, he'll get a solution as soon as this goes out. What about the ones who didn't get it, you're gonna take them out on the street? On what key did this work, who had the right to make such decisions? You have a commission here to establish a working relationship, has that been decided before that commission was formed, has this been decided before this decision was made? Yes, you've already taken care of your own, now you need it through one of these decisions to get through, nothing more, they're already physically here. As a folk MP, I can hardly get into this building, but the employees who worked in that building without any trouble coming in here, be careful now that contradiction. On what basis did they come, by which line, are they just party colleagues or are they related, friendly relationships, godfathers? They don't complain about those workers there to the press, and they write about it in pure peace, they're scared for their destiny. If you've already decided to take one, then take over everything, not by any other key. What, now you're in power, so you think you can do whatever you want. Tomorrow someone else comes to power, all of you relaxes, and those who are out of a job come back, so we're gonna play like that, work a little bit. People, when someone decides to make one such decision, you understand, it's about human destiny, it's not small things. We're MPs, we've been aware of all the risks when we enter the work of the MP, which is that tomorrow we can run out of mandate, but you can't condemn technical persons to that kind of thing. It wasn't their choice. And what one of the officials and this assembly, and the former ones, is interested in party membership to keep a job. Will you make people like you in the worst of times - you can get a job if you're a member of that party. That's what's happening right now. You can be the director of the health care center if you're a member of the G17 plus. Well, okay, come on director, but what about employees? So they don't have any rights if they're not members of the parties that are now in this coalition? For the whole decision you've written, you should've put the first names of the people who will be head of the sector, etc., you could've put a name for this second deputy secretary as well, because I believe that job was ordered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29097	Before I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision, is there anyone else who hasn't used his right under Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? The president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Milos Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29098	The truth is, I'd like to speak very briefly at the end, I'm not going to use my right for 20 minutes. This decision really has an internal organisational significance, and given what we've heard, especially from my predecessor, which can be, in such an isolated way, based objections and established hunches, those in real life actually aren't, and I'm going to try to prove it. So the administration that was sitting in the parliament building of the state community meant a number of employees. The concern of the state above all is for them to see what they're going to do with these people. We were able to decide all together to simply end their working relationship, so the next day when we determine the needs of this assembly for staff solutions in the service, to make some kind of competition and to choose people who will come to work. The idea was that as many people as possible who worked in parliament of the state community did not run out of work, but that in a simple way what they were doing there, some of the functions they were doing there, they were practically working here, and I think it's all the same for all of us. How many sectors there are, what internal division is, it dictates first and foremost the size of the business that is being done. I do not think that all these jobs are uniform, that they have the same content and that the division by sectors is not invented in the Serbian Assembly, but it exists in other public institutions, and it does not only serve to place someone in the main place of a particular sector, but that division has meaning in that way that certain working continents are being rounded up, and that the managers of these working continents thus manage smaller and more inlandly, in which a smaller number of persons are employed than when, for example, it is a large sector or part that would cover, for example, the assistant secretary of the Assembly, who, for example, would keep 50 or 60 employees. It's a lot easier to do in smaller continents. Secondly, according to this, there is also a Law on the salaries of civil servants, which in a very simple way builds up the possibility of rewarding those in such places with special powers and responsibilities. It's all blended into a simple system. When it comes to people who are supposed to move from parliament to this parliament, it's not about names, so it's impossible to get those names out in advance, put them on paper, and say these are people by the name and last name who would like to work here, and these are people who don't. It is, above all, certain jobs and tasks and, of course, that those people who have worked in such jobs, no matter what they are called and renamed, no matter when they are employed or how they are employed in the parliament of the state community, certainly can and should have priority when it comes to employment in the National Assembly. Here, let's say, when it comes to a sector that monitors these foreign activities, which is now new in the Serbian Parliament, it makes perfect sense for me that the work is done mainly by those officials who have worked in the parliament of the state community, therefore not entering the name and name of those people. I think there's a number of translators in the parliament of the state community, for example. I think there is absolutely a need for them to work in the Serbian Parliament. I highly doubt that any of them will lose their jobs, I can't argue that, it's a matter of the secretary and his regulations who will later propose to the Administrative Committee on Labour Systematization, but according to how the organization was set up, we will definitely need that service and no one will enter the names and last names there. Unfortunately, there are certain sectors or services that existed in the parliament of the state community, where these people who have worked on these specific jobs will appear in some way as an surplus and this will surely require the state to deal with it, and the state will worry about the way in which it is handled in such situations. I say, unfortunately, it would be great if all these people could find a job in the Serbian Parliament, but that kind of work, that kind of transfer of that working relationship from there, would have, above all, in the context of the kind of work that was done there, the qualification, what was done at work, given the needs of the National Assembly, not the name and last name, or who brought who, which I don't know, I don't care, and I don't want to know. So it's a major criterion. As far as other things are concerned, we can suspect anything. I'm open to accepting any suspicions, but if she doesn't express herself, there's no serious debate. Therefore, I experience every suspicion here as a constructive contribution to the debate, and it opens up the possibility of answering it and saying something else. I think that this way of discussion is perfectly fine, and it's perfectly okay to ask ourselves that kind of thing here in the National Assembly, but I'm just saying that, in addition to being suspicious, we need to show a little positive energy, or a positive mood over what's coming to us as a job. I don't think we should be wondering what new people or some people who used to work in the community parliament are doing here, and I'm going to remind myself that we need to do some jobs and we don't have any other options. Those people who are now getting paid by being registered are being led through the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and not here in parliament, they have arrived there on that kind of list precisely thanks to the decisions of the National Assembly and that deadline we gave there. So it was a way to launch certain functions, which this Parliament must also perform, in this way logistics. I'm going to give you a simple example, and I think he's enough to understand that. Our parliamentary delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe had to have an engaged translator, had to have a secretary of the delegation and a certain official who was engaged in foreign affairs, who went on the road. We could have hired them in another way, to discuss the contest, to give a two-day deadline for someone to report to the competition, so that we would hire a delegation secretary, because the job that that man was doing in the earlier period is not such a nature that anyone else can replace him, or even of these officials who currently exist in the Serbian Parliament. It's not a simple job, because those people we've hired now, we just had to hire them because we had no other choice, we couldn't tell the Council of Europe to wait for us with a session of the Parliamentary Assembly until we solved our problems here. That is the only reason why you and some people may be seeing each other in the halls of the National Assembly, and that reason is exclusively related to the needs of work and current activities that we have to do and nothing else. Which of them will be admitted to a working relationship with the Serbian Parliament, this depends on the Regulation on systemization, on the needs analysed in relation to what our jobs are and on what specific tasks specific individuals have worked in the parliament of the state community. So, if they were working on those jobs that the Serbian Parliament is taking and it has to continue to a certain extent, it is natural that the people who covered the sector and who were working there will come here. I can say that it's natural and different to think, that we can make a contest, that we can put all of them in another basket with all the unemployed who meet the conditions, who have passed the exam for working in the state authorities and see that they choose the best among them. It's possible, but this view is also extremely legitimate for someone who's already worked there, not getting into it again, not when he's busy or who brought him in. These people, if they have qualifications, if they are expert in what they were doing there, let them do it for the National Assembly of Serbia. In this decision that was proposed here, except so-called. the controversial moments that raise questions, in fact there are no other moments and the whole reason why this decision is being taken is now resting on changing the structure of the work that the National Assembly is doing. As soon as the work structure is changed, it is normal to change the decision on the organisation of congregation services in the Serbian Parliament. There is one more thing that follows us, it is a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have seen in the debate on committees and before that in our discussions that there will certainly be a certain kind of discrepancies at this point. It would have been good if we could have prepared both of the acts for today, obviously we couldn't, but in any case, the Rules of Procedure are certainly one of the first next decisions, or law, since the Rules of Procedure are one of the laws to be passed by the National Assembly, in order to also bring this act into line with the new needs. So this point doesn't have much philosophy, this agenda point is natural, normal in order of events according to the activities that we can take. Of course, I'm glad we can hear different questions that are being asked here and certain doubts, which would be unnatural if they weren't there, but I think I've somehow answered those doubts and contributed to the dispersion of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29099	Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used their right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique review of the proposal for a decision. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Finance Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Since the promoter's not here, I'm not gonna ask him if he wants a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not even have a report on the lists, before I conclude the search, does the Proposer want a word? He's not here. I'm concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – The election of a member of the National Council for Higher Education For this part of the agenda, you received a report from the Committee on Education and a proposal from a candidate of the University of Serbia Conference for an unfulfilled seat of the National Council for Higher Education. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? Yeah. National MP Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29100	Dear fellow MPs, I won't explain this motion for long, but I don't think it's a bad thing to remind you of what this is all about. The leading role in the process of ensuring the quality of higher education is played by the National Council for Higher Education, as a senior expert body whose members are elected and resolved by the National Assembly by established procedure. This is the way of the elections to achieve the independence and separation of the National Council from the Executive and Administrative Authority. Given the composition of the National Council, this body is competent to participate in the creation of a higher education policy in society, as well as to direct and ensure the development of this activity. This shall be achieved through a series of tasks and tasks carried out by the National Council under its jurisdiction. At a session held on April 3rd, the National Assembly elected 15 members, and the law stipulates that the Council has 16 members. At that time, nine members were elected from the list of candidates of the University of Serbia conference, instead of the ten scheduled. The Education Committee found it necessary to repeat the procedure for selecting a member of the Council and, at the proposal of the University of Serbia Conference. On 29 May, the conference submitted a new proposal to the Assembly for this one member of the Council. Accordingly, the Education Committee found that the legal conditions had been met for the National Assembly to choose one, which would be the 16th member of the National Council for Higher Education. I ask all colleagues to vote in favour of the proposal submitted to complete this extremely important body.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-18-0.u29101	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93 wants to speak. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will join the vote in the day to vote on the proposed candidate for the National Council for Higher Education. Since we've exhausted the agenda, we'll continue the session tomorrow at 12.05 p.m.
