ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27064	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Dusan Prorokovic, Vojkan Tomic, Dejan Stojiljković, Miroslav Petkovic and Miroslav Jankovic. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE INVESTIONAL FONDOVS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the draft of the law by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Milan Stevović, Stevica Dedjanski, Radiša Ilic, Ivan Radić, Zoran Krasić, Momir Marković, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Milan Škrbić, Dragan Čolić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milovanovic, Milovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Nemanja Sarović, Vojislav Milajić, Zoran Antić, Mita Avramov, Igor Bečić, Tihomir Đurić, Branislav Blažić, Stefan Zivić, Dragan Zivić, Milorad Krstin, Darko Glisić, Mirko Četrović, Lazar Čarović, Sreto Perić, Dragoljumenković, Dragojumenković, Boremić Štović, Borić, Borić, Borežirović, Borić and Borić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we continue this set of financial laws concerning securities markets of value, when it comes to investment funds. In my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, I asked to be in Article 2. The proposal for a law on investment funds, which regulates certain concepts that are relevant for the implementation of this law, is said to possess a qualified participation of a person who is directly or indirectly having an action, or other rights on the basis of which more than 10% of the participation in the capital or voting rights of another person is obtained. In my amendment, I asked that the number 10% be replaced by 5%. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing, has rejected this amendment, explaining that the percentage provided for by the draft law is in line with the EU directives that regulate this area and with the experiences of countries in an environment that already have developed investment funds. That's exactly what the problem is, these are countries in an environment that have developed investment funds. For a long time, there has been an organised market of securities of value, there are investment funds and individually, the value of capital owned by small shareholders is much higher than domestic future shareholders. It is further said: "The prescribed percentage of 10% to obtain qualified participation is an adequate mechanism that ensures transparency of the ownership structure of the investment fund management companies", which means that small shareholders will have to join together much more to achieve these 10% management rights. In that case, they will have other large shareholders, who own 50, 75, and perhaps some percentage more and of course it will be difficult to protect their own rights individually, their own capital. The reason for the submission of this amendment is precisely that at this initial stage of education of investment funds and stock companies, at the initial stage of organisation of the paper market, the percentage of 10% is lower so that smaller shareholders can easily join and defend their rights in managing a particular investment fund. By doing so, with a number of qualified participants, the work of such an investment fund will certainly be better quality and the rights of all asset owners will be much better protected if this amendment is accepted, not if it remains as it is written in the bill itself. So, to be 10%, means that those who have more money, more money, have a certain monopoly that will be difficult to confront in a particular investment fund. This is especially when it comes to the subsequent division of income, where it decides what revenue will be included in the founding role, i.e. capital, and what revenue will be shared with shareholders themselves through the form of dividends. Of course, those who have more money, their decisions and voting rights will qualify a good part of the income as a founding stake and thus increase their percentage in the investment fund itself, again at the expense of small shareholders who will have to settle for dividends and that will be their only income. These dividends will, in any case, be less and less due to the reduction of their ownership percentages, until they simply drown in that part where the last 5% have to sell to the majority owner. So I think that the government should now, in this initial period, be less in line with EU directives, when this securities market and investment funds come to life, when you see mechanisms working, when you remove the shortcomings of the law that will certainly appear in application. The easiest thing will be, then, that in some subsequent period, through changes and additions to this law, that percentage may change to 7 and 10% or more, but only after the law is brought to life, as well as the market for securities of value; when investment funds are in place; when we see in practice the lack of law, because this is a whole new substance for Serbia and it is absolutely certain that the first basic law will not be able to remove all shortcomings in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27066	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Arsic's amendment is extremely important. It is located at the beginning of the law itself and essentially defines the position of small shareholders in corporate governance. Since the Government does not access any changes and additions to the laws treated by a company and the position of small shareholders there is extremely poorly treated, they have only some fictitious rights that do not allow them to have a more significant impact on the management of the companies themselves and thus are significantly threatened and their rights to property. I think it is extremely important that this amendment be adopted by Mr Veroljub Arsic, because it essentially fits into the concept of the SRS to prevent capital concentration. Only the passing of this law is the best sign that we have in Serbia an exceptional concentration of capital, that shareholders take over a large cake from Serbia's economy, and that small shareholders are in a subordinate position, so that the fact, with 5% participation, could join them to get the right to control corporate management through the amendment of the Company Act. Eventually, if we were to fight for an internal audit, we would be in a position to include those capital that Serbian citizens have today, as said in "slams", in our economy. Without governance, there will certainly be no interest in any investment by small shareholders, because in that case they will not be able to control the money they invested on the one hand, and on the other hand we will have a significantly worse structure in corporate administrations. I believe that, if the government had not already heard the amendment to the Law on Economic Society, it should in any case have tried to accept this amendment, because it basically refers to a concept that opposes this majority action that has been attempted by the financial oligarchy in the beginning of the privatisation process, and it is completely untrue that 10% is something that is suitable for EU countries. On the contrary, they go to a wide dispersion of ownership because it guarantees less risks in business. Therefore, I would ask all MPs to consider this amendment and support Mr Arsic's amendment in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27068	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27069	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the amendment is a place where I would like to say something that does not slow down the argument offered by my colleagues. You know how, small shareholders always have one dilemma. Do they, when opting for political programmes, take risks when voting for right-wing parties? They have no other risk. Small stockholders have scored twice as many auto goals so far. I invite them not to do it the third time. It is not possible to vote for right-wing parties or parties to the neoliberal concept and to expect left-wing solutions in the law. It just doesn't drink water. So, the right-wing political programme, any one, has an interest in matching the laws to the interests of capital. Big or small, whatever. That thing's clean. It's a question of choice. It's just not possible. It's impossible to pick cherries from a pear. That's not possible. Now I'm talking to people who, when they vote, think it's possible to pick cherries on another tree. But not to slow down what the distinguished colleagues were talking about, it is important to know that there was a concept that small shareholders should be majority in every firm in Serbia. It's either you take it or you leave it. I'm offering, and you won't. When you don't, then you face the real consequences of your political delusion, and it's called the law, it's called the system, the economic environment, whatever. There'll be an opportunity to say that once more when the campaign starts, and she'll be on her way sooner or later. That's what we said to the unions the other day. That's what we're saying to the small shareholders now. When he marries in a hurry, he repents.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27070	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27071	What I heard earlier, with my left and right, it was as if Predrag Markovic was talking about the captain of the ship and the mice or what the new one said – dissidents, as it were, hostages, hostages, etc. There's no more division on the left and on the right. If we go towards that division, then DS is a leftist party, because it's a member of the Socialist International. If we go after it, then in our country, the most steals that left. There's nothing wrong with our concept, which we said that qualified participation has the one who owns it, operating directly with more than 5% of the participation. The government is proposing that it be more than 10%. There are no small or large shareholders here. Some protect small shareholders by raising their tax from 200 dinars to 500, representing their interests, and their interests cannot represent you at all. Anyway, to go back to this amendment, since the election campaign has obviously started, so people are just freaking out from these speakers with such big statements – nice, nicer, left. (Rajko Baralić, from the scene: Did it bother you before? I don't know, you explain it to your voters, don't explain it to me, it's all been clear to me for a long time. The amendment submitted by MP Milan Stevovic of the SRS refers to Article 7, which regulates the level of capital capital and for the sake of the public, I must say – the level of the core capital of the investment fund management company. The SRS has long advocated the need to adopt investment fund regulations. Not to go to some dates from 1995, 1996, but since 2003, whenever there was an insurance, banking, pension and disability insurance regulation, the SRS has urged the government to come up with a concept of investment funds law. More widely, everyone who trades securities with value, holds funds and places them somewhere are investment funds. They're capitalizing on assets, not labor. Their goods are money. What the Government predicted as a condition, as regards the level of the core capital of the investment fund management company. Otherwise, I have to say, this is exactly the same concept as the concept of the Voluntary PIO Act, which was on the agenda last year. There are pension funds and companies there to manage these funds. It's the same concept. Here, in Article 7, the level of capital is defined in a different way than yesterday, when we talked about that law and it is said that the monetary part must be at least 200,000 euros in dinar equivalent. We didn't cover it with the amendment, but we covered this part of the security guarantee that always these funds will exist in the account, so that society could be responsible for the obligations and possibly for the damage caused to the members of the investment fund. So it's responsible for some risks, and it's a risk for the company's business, and if that company that manages the investment fund does a bad job, it's going to cause damage to the investment fund members and then it's going to have to be provided some responsibility based on the guilt of the one who caused that damage. The first two positions are correct, and attitude 3 says, "The management company is obliged to ensure in its business that the monetary part of the basic capital of society is always at a level that is not less than the dinar equivalent of 200,000 euros." It's a good provision that guarantees that with these means that must always exist, it doesn't matter in what form, but they always have to exist to meet society's obligations effectively based on responsibility. However, in the final position, and that is attitude 4. The government suggests that in the course of business, the company's financial share of capital can also be held in securities with a maturity of up to one year, whose publisher is the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia. This is an exception, where in the short-term debt charters the existence of these funds is practically ensured. All we're asking is that between the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, the fact that they can stick to short-term debt charters issued by territorial autonomy units, local self-government in the Republic and other legal entities guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. Something similar exists in the limits and possibility of the investment fund's allocations, where the fund's assets are allowed to be engaged in charters of the value of these issuers. We do not know why, if it is a larger guarantee for an investment company, why such a form of asset allocation would not also be the same guarantee when it comes to investment fund management companies and the monetary part of their underlying capital. We don't see what the difference is. A team before, if you know what society should do and what an investment fund is. In order to avoid confusion, the investment fund should be one account to which citizens should pay the funds. What citizens? Those who have the means. What means? Those who represent their surplus, and they have no idea how to spend it. Why are they paying them? To preserve the substance or possibly to increase those resources in some way. What's their increase supposed to be? It's certainly bigger and more than they've given those funds on the bank's savings. If banks give an annual interest rate of 5%, probably the revenue expected should be at the 5.5 or 6 investment fund. Or he intends to secure a strategic position on the security of some immovableity. I have to tell you that there's a big unknown and a big risk, because we had something like that with insurance companies. These companies are part of their capital or capital managed by them also invested in real estate. There they kept the substance and provided funds so that they could meet the obligation when there was a secured risk in immovableity, so the prices of a square meter apartment that leads to their bookkeeping were 10 and a half 15,000 euros per metre square metre. So that's what you're going to have here, and if it's going to happen and whether it's going to be, it's going to depend on the control organs. When a little more serious business control was made, several of them were seen, they had a square meter of housing purchased by the insurance company to provide funds to pay for them, and there is a square of 10,000 and 15,000 euros each. It was an ordinary laundry room, so a balance insurance company doesn't stand so bad, and it's very good because it doesn't meet its obligations, it doesn't pay for damage, or it runs long procedures and difficulties, and so the funds were withdrawn. So now to return to this amendment, I see no reason why the monetary part of the capital and the investment fund management company could not be held in debt securities of value, whose issuers are the units of local self-government, territorial autonomy and other legal entities guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, they are in the same rank as the short-term debt charters issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia. This should be supported by those MPs who, in some ways, participate in local self-government, because so local self-government will provide additional funding, not only through investment funds, but also by investment fund management companies. All those local self-governments who are interested in forming an investment fund on their territory are likely to support such an amendment. I do not see any reason why what is a security guarantee for an investment fund will not be a guarantee of capital security and the investment fund management company. What's the difference? Maybe the difference is, and we're going to have quite such amendments, where we're going to talk about one system, how it's going to be networked into the projection of the financial flow and control of all the financing in the Republic of Serbia, and you're going to see after how similarity and convenience are interpreted in an even worse way than in yesterday's value-market law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27072	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is quite obvious that this law was written by the same persons as the Law on the Market of Securities of Value, especially when it comes to the privileged position of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank on the market of securities of value and here, even in this law, the two participants in the securities market are favored. Just an explanation of the legislator of the Law that the Republic, or the National Bank, is a safer guarantee in the securities market than the value and that it can therefore be their charter of value part of the founding capital, can be denied in several examples. First, the one who wrote such an explanation would have to look at the Budgetary System Act. Each unit of local self-government and territorial autonomy has its own budget. If it issues debt securities, it is required to set an item in its budget – a special account, a sub-account, however you will, on which there will be funds for the payment of debt securities. Furthermore, it is necessary again, regardless of local self-government, the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia to issue debt securities of value, when it comes to units of local self-government and territorial autonomy, and I don't see why their debt charters of value could not be the subjects of the founding role of a shareholder society. In the following examples, the Commission for Securities of Values is once again referred to in Article 8. It is she who has certain powers in implementing this law, so it is at least surprising that you did not accept the amendment yesterday, where in Article 3 we asked that the powers of the Commission be mentioned only in a certain law. We already have here in Article 1 of the Securities Commission, paragraph 1 of point 6 and it is competent to implement this law. Why, then, did you repeat its jurisdiction for the implementation of this law in the Law on Charters of Value? This law has not yet been passed and the question is, if it is brought forward, will it be in this text as you have suggested. It is the right of the Members of the People to define this in the day of the vote. First, the proposer must take care of this, when writing a legislative proposal, to which all the law is called, and not to refer to laws that have not yet been passed. In Article 8, paragraph 3, which has been proposed in the amendment of Stevica Dedjanski, which submitted it on behalf of the SRS, the 3rd point reads: "The management society is obliged to meet the minimum conditions of organisational and technical competence prescribed by the Commission". Back to heading 1: "The Management Society is obliged to hire at least one manager for each investment fund managed by and one authorised internal auditor employed indefinitely. "Isn't that the personnel training? Yes, it is. What if the Commission defines in its sub-legislative act other personnel training? Will that sublegal act be in collegiate with the law itself? They will, because you have already given the Commission the right to violate the law itself, which regulates one matter. What does technical equipment mean? As far as I know, that matter should be regulated by law. Technical equipment, for example, is the fiscal registers Act. You've passed a whole law to force market participants who work with cash and their services and goods to charge for it, that they have to have fiscal cash. Yet it had to come before the messengers of the people, that the messengers of the people should declare it. So there's a special law on that. It was later amended by the Value Added Tax Act, but essentially this technical training was regulated by law. If we remind ourselves of the tobacco law and the sale of tobacco reprocessing, there were technical conditions prescribed. There were yesterday words about it, even for the trafics that will be engaged in the sale of tobacco reprocessing, so you instructed that there must be a sanitary node, separate entrance for unloading goods, separate entrance for manipulation, selling goods, and you even went so far as to predict which vehicles you could carry tobacco and tobacco processing. You even regulated what must be written on those vehicles. You mentioned that there's nothing else that can be transported except that. The whole area of work that is not so important has been dealt with by law, and now it is the Commission that will regulate some relations with sublaws and other acts, who will be able and who will not be able to meet technical conditions and the ability to organise itself as a management society. Furthermore, when it comes to sublaws, they can change very quickly and easily. One session of the Securities Commission is sufficient and this changes. After a while, the conditions may be tempered, depending on the situation as necessary and in that it is the problem when something is regulated by sublaws and is not the subject of the law itself. That is why I propose that this amendment to Stevica Dedjanskog be accepted, especially for the reason that Article 8 is regulated which is human training. We can also give powers to the Commission which can challenge the adoption of sublegal acts which are contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27074	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27075	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The draft law, with a proposal to delete Article 10(4). I would read that view, it is said, "Extremely from the position of the 3rd member, bank and insurance company with the majority state or social capital can be the founders of the management company." So here we have something similar to what we had in the Bill on Securities Market, when it comes to the privilege and monopoly of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other state bodies. Whether the law itself will be enough to establish the so-called law. the economic mile necessary for this form of organization to come to life with us, and the question is, what is the problem of all those who plan to deal with this business in the future? In order for investment funds to come to life here, many more conditions should be met, the country's tax regime improved, then accounting and comprehensive law. It's not a good solution to overwrite laws from abroad. In order for these funds to function in Serbia, it is necessary to create conditions for their liquidity, ensure that good stock companies are listed on the stock market, and better manage the business of audit and brokerage houses. The stability of the currency, the creation of a stock market, on which elite Serbian firms would appear, is also capital strong, is also one of the essential conditions for investment funds to come to life. If the market is empty and public companies' actions do not appear, investment funds will remain empty and have no capital to trade with. The negligible number of strategic investors, foreign direct investment and increasing revenues from copyright privatisation seem to have convinced the authorities that we have "delivered the Emperor to the duvar" in this sphere, and are heading towards the establishment of investment funds. The emergence of investment funds in the current privatisation, actions so-called small shareholders and actions from the state action fund are seen in the presence of investment funds such as "Salford", it is in the Canary Islands, which are otherwise present in the dairy industry, then "FPP Balkan Limiteded", as many others, but they have an inconspicuous structure. In countries where legislation does not commit to the structure of its capital, it makes it transparent, investment funds become dangerous players for the state. I hope the MPs in the voting day will accept this amendment on Article 10, paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27076	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27077	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's look at what it looks like when this government and its representatives are working on the securities market and what happened in the past. This is about the fact that a domestic legal entity with a majority governmental or social capital or any other person associated with it cannot be the founder of a management company, so it is said in the following position, whose erasure is proposed: "Extremely from the position of the 3rd member, bank and insurance company with the majority state or social capital may be the founders of the management company". The amendment is rejected for reasons, it is said, "The proposed position brings all domestic financial institutions to a level playing field. It would not be justified to exclude the largest domestic banks and insurance companies currently holding the majority state, or social capital, because they represent the most significant domestic participants in the financial market." There is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, because these are the biggest banks and insurance companies in the privatisation process. To remind you what it looked like earlier, I have repeatedly repeated this after this pay phone, and who knows how many times I'm going to repeat that – "National Savings Bank" was in the majority ownership of the Republic of Serbia at the time when she was paying off old foreign savings bonds, until she gained the right to pay off and buy out old foreign currency bonds. As soon as it was real, the state lost most of its ownership in that bank. Of course, thanks to such a situation and such speculation, owners, at the time of the majority part of the "National Savings Bank", thanks to the monopoly position of the "National Savings Bank" have earned huge money. So they earned, not to say how they bought those old foreign exchange bonds, which their real price on the capital market was, who could buy it all, and so on. Because the National Savings Bank had lists of citizens who had old foreign exchange bonds, because they applied for them, it provided these lists with personal data from the bondholders, i.e. phone numbers and address, and they were persuaded to make contact with a particular person or persons, legal or physical, to sell these bonds at a far lower price than the nominal value of the bond, and because the money could be obtained immediately and the state guaranteed payment of two or more years. Because "National Savings Centre" at the time of acceptance of the job was mostly owned by the state, the real owners became Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, exploited that closeness with Mladjan Dinkic and earned huge money from old foreign savings. Now the question arises, if this position 4 contained in the bill is kept, it means, when these banks, thanks to such a law, establish management companies, they will get again from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and suddenly the banks become private. Until banks become private insurance companies, they should not organise management companies. And anyway, as you are, if you have time, you will sell these banks and those insurance companies in the face of your friends and thus become owners or co-owners of these same banks and insurance companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27078	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27079	Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, and above all the citizens of Serbia, I want to respond to a poster that appears in all the cities of Serbia these days, which is a poster - a warrant, which contains pictures of MPs from your cities. The authors of these posters are Mr Branko Pavlovic and the president of the union, namely the NIS Trade Union, PTT and EPS. What you see in front of you is a great shame, something like this never happened at the darkest time of Milosevic's regime, and neither the government nor the opposition was persecuting the MPs like the MPs in this country today. Which is why Mr Branko Pavlovic calls us and puts a reward for us between 3,000 and 15,000 euros, and the message is: "Find him and tell him how to vote! ". I will explain to the citizens of Serbia why this is demagogy, what Mr Branko Pavlovic is offering us, something the government has promised Serbian citizens by voting the NIS Act. The government, working exclusively in the interests of its citizens, like all MPs here, whether they are MPs of position or opposition, said it wants to sell these companies, but also to achieve the price, so that citizens' actions are worth it. Mr. Branko Pavlovic believes that actions should be sold now, so who gets and how much they get. This points to those who have the least in this country: teachers, teachers, doctors, medical staff, municipal officials, judges and court staff, officers, police officers, employees of public enterprises and pensioners. The gentlemen Mr. Pavlovic listed are demagogues and lies. Mr. Pavlovic must justify 300,000 euros as much as his fee is to do this job. You will get your actions and they will be worth it and that is the next step in what the government has promised its citizens. You've seen us work in your best interests and we won't allow this kind of thing. As a folk MP, as an individual among you 250, I feel angry and used, someone we've allowed to address from this pay phone, used it, and here, my colleague shows all the other warrants, each of us has an APB, and I know it, and soon the citizens of Serbia will know that, because they're dividing in some cities, and in some of us they'll just be dividing. So this is something that Mr. Pavlovic is doing and that he will surely be saddened by me personally, and I suppose from all the other MPs. So you can ask Mr. Pavlovic everything that's important, I'll give you his cell phone number that I just called, and the gentleman hung up on me, because there's no argument. He said, "This is nothing personal." This isn't personal either. I'll read it twice. The author of this text, this poster, Mr Branko Pavlovic, is worth 300,000 euros for this job – 064/1356-583. Once again, for those who want to ask him where their money is, out of those 300,000 euros there can be added – 064/1356-583. I'd like each of my colleagues to pick up the phone and ask him what I asked him to do, see if he's gonna hang up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27080	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? The word has an MP, Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on investment funds. It is, in fact, a member who regulates the content of an application for the authorisation of management companies, as well as criteria for the similarity and reliability of a person who acquires a qualified participation in the management company. Several amendments have been submitted to this bill by the SRS parliamentary group, which speaks of the fact that this member is quite poor, inconclusive and vague. In particular, I request that point 3 point 7 be deleted by amendment. It is, in fact, the part which regulates all the documentation needed to be attached to the Securities Commission when applying for persons intending to set up a management company. In that point, 3 is said, among other things, to require proof of the origin of the founding capital. What does the legislator mean to prove the origin of the founding capital? In the opinion of the SRS parliamentary group, this matter has been regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the provisions proposed to these members of the law are completely excessive. In fact, the Securities Commission does not have the capacity to deal with money laundering issues. Over a year ago, we got a Commission to stop money laundering, which only formally exists and whose job it should be. Unfortunately, like many other commissions formed, they serve only to hire party personnel who are in power, and they do not deal with what they should do and what they do in their job description. In fact, it's quite clear why you don't want to. It's the tycoon that wants to rob Serbia. This is an ideal solution and this law is an ideal basis to allow tycoons who robbed Serbia to legalize what they have robbed through the stock market for years. The explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for refusing this, as well as by most other amendments, is really funny. I don't know if there's any point in having the government answer that way to the MPs of the SRS anymore. It's better that you don't answer at all and explain why you reject the amendments to the SRS, rather than write such ridiculous and unsuspecting explanations, so I wouldn't be surprised if you said no for some next amendment because it was written on Tuesday, not Wednesday.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27082	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27083	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday I said a few things about General Stankovic. I brought you something you wouldn't believe. Namely, General Stankovic, the unfortunately general, the defence minister, a CIA agent, said there was no war crime in Holmec, so he mentioned names and said people were wounded. Here, I brought the birth certificate from the dead. Now you'll hear everything. People were killed on Holmec, the exact date, with the date when the TV was recorded on Austrian television. Namely, ladies and gentlemen: "Social Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, excerpt from the book of the dead. In the home book of the deceased, for the home area of Prevalje, 1991, under order number, I can't read Slovenian, so don't be angry, "prinek Ješić name Zoran, sex male, day, month, year and hour of death –28. June 1991, honey 04:13." So, very precisely written at what time and when. "End of death Holmec, day, month and year of birth - 7. Nine. In 1972, Pančevo, the last permanent residence of Sakula, Svetozar Miletic 18, father Jesic Milan." – "Maletić Goran, 28 June 1991, 04:13, Holmec, date of birth 30. 3. 1972, last permanent residence – Novi Sad, Shakespeare 32". - "Simunović Antonija, June 1991, Holmec, born 19. 8. 1972, Mostar, the last resort of Jablanica." It's obviously a Croat. So I brought it just to show you. Perhaps the Slovenians invented death certificates, and perhaps the agent decided to release someone, even though he was killing Serbian children. I'd like someone to explain this to us. I'd like one of you to tell us if this is true or not. Most in the world, I wish I had to apologize tomorrow and say, "I'm sorry, I made a mistake," because that would mean we have two lives more. If that's not true, then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let the CIA agent read the skin on the spike, because after that he'll have to answer, and not to answer to the MPs of the National Assembly, but you'll have to arrest him at the moment. Also, I brought here to see what the Swedish NGOs say about The Hague tribunal. Today it would be necessary for Vojislav Seselj's status conference, at 2:15 p.m., to decide on the trial, but you can see how they care for people held captive in the tribunal. You have seen what has made Milan Martic sick and what is the attitude towards our people in The Hague tribunal. The Swedish NGO, on almost 40 pages, speaks clearly and shows that they have two nurses and one doctor there in two weeks. Is it such a concern, is so much money leaving the United Nations' account and so much money being paid by certain states that such a concern would be about detainees? I don't think so, I think this is a big problem and our country has had to react to this. As for these posters the lady spoke of earlier, I didn't see them, I don't know whose idea it was. He says, "Find him and tell him how to vote. ". Does that mean someone's gonna come after us? I don't know who's going to chase me, and if he chases me anywhere, I'll catch Branko Pavlovic. It's funny to some, and some are looking forward to it, but that kind of insolence in my life really didn't happen and I didn't see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27084	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Member of the 10th National MP Ivan Radic? Here you go. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27085	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is, therefore, that, in Section 7, point 3, with a request for authorisation for work, it is submitted "proof of the origin of the founding capital. "Now these evidence may be more, it may be that some money was inherited, legally earned, paid taxes, reported it, etc., but now I wonder why we set up a Commission to prevent money laundering and whether this proof of the origin of founding capital might be from some exotic island, why not? So, a man can raise money, bring in confirmation that he raised it from the bank, make a payment. How are you going to argue that this report is incorrect? Very difficult. Is that proof of the origin of the capital? In a certain way, the money was in the bank, though it was in the Virgin Islands, the Seattle Islands, but still, in the bank. And the question is, when are you going to ask people like that who have bills in these banks where did they get that money, how did they even make that money? Why do we even have this Commission to stop money laundering? She even has a right, you gave her the authority to ask for a report from both foreign banks and those exotic islands. Did the commission ever ask for a single such report, were the Serbian tycoons asked for reports, did anyone wonder where the president of the National Office came from so much money, where did he get the founding bet, that he wasn't from some exotic islands? Has anyone wondered where those 450m euros ended from the robbery of Serbia's oil industry, when Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic were sickened by Serbian citizens? Or, simply, if someone decides to start a management company, to bring in a confirmation from a bank that's in Seseljski, Cayman, Virgin or who knows what other islands from different offshore zones, and you say – the money's perfectly fine, you see he came from the bank, the man paid the money there, there the bank kept his money. And where did that money come from in that bank? It's a different story. It happened 10 or 15 years ago, and we have no right to investigate it. Then why did we set up a Commission to prevent money laundering? If this is to be done now by the Committee on Papers or by this law, then you are exempt from the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering in this area and is exclusive to the competence of the Securities Commission. So, we're going to have two completely parallel state bodies doing the same job and asking the question again -- and what if the Money Prevention Commission says that money is not legal, it is from the Sessel Islands, it is from the bank, but we don't know how it got there. Until it's proven, that money's for us just laundered there. And the Securities Commission says, "No, no, with this bank confirmation, it's all settled." That's the problem when you write such laws, when, I suppose, in that desire to put as many of your people as possible into the authorities of the administration, you insist on making such a circle of people who will protect you and when you fall from power. You are a bit of an exaggeration and you are making parallel organs that should do the same job, so it will most likely look like the security of Cedomir Jovanovic -- he has his own, he has his own state, and they are fighting each other here in the halls of the Serbian Parliament. You'll probably be able to get one job, one job, the other job, the other job, the other one find it illegal, the other authority will say it's legal, so whoever does it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27086	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27087	Article 10 lays down what all should contain a request for the authorisation to work and what is applicable to that request. In point 7 of this Article, the Commission notes that there is a need for the Commission to assess the terms and conditions of the investment fund management company, and that, if the conditions are met, it is to adopt a solution to allow the investment fund management company to operate. Now, specifically, about the amendment. "According to the application for a work permit, it is submitted: (There was a speech about this earlier, on the subject of the amendment. It is much better to say only – the confirmation of the competent body, to see that the funds are clean. And now there goes what's covered by this amendment that I'm explaining. ) 4) rules of operation of the management company and 5) organisational diagram of the management company. "This amendment requires that those two dots be deleted. Why? This is all happening before the management company and there is, so it doesn't exist, there's only a founding act of people who want to build a company like this, a society, a closed stock company. This is the organisational form prescribed by Article 4 and the conditions for registration with the competent authorities which manage the company register is that the Commission should grant a work permit. Now, the rules of the management company's business, and if it were to be written, at this stage of the company's establishment process would be simple paper and these rules as to how the company should operate, should be found in the founding act, since it is a closed stock company. So, in advance, it is known who the founders are, who the shareholders will be and who the founding act regulates their relationship with each other, and they describe why they form this form of investment fund management company and give basic indications which rules to adhere to, so that, in one provision of this bill, it is given as an authorisation, i.e. it is determined to represent the authority of the Securities Commission, that it prescribes the rules of business. You don't know what business rules are going to be around here. This will be an act that is inapplicable at the time when they bring it to the Securities Commission. It'll be just a piece of paper that'll fit the future society if they get permission to work, to do business. It's completely unnecessary. This is where you put it, you saw for yourself, the conditions that someone needs to meet to get permission to work, are set up so flexible that they can be interpreted as who they want to be. So point 4 of "business rules" is inserted, unless there's any other reason why someone's not allowed to work, to say: you didn't quite write these rules. These rules are not applicable at that time, because the company only starts working when it receives registration from the competent authority where companies are registered. This procedure, which is covered by Article 10, provides evidence, documentation, or something which constitutes a condition for subsequent registration when that company acquires the property of a legal person and, after registration in the register for companies, only then can it begin to operate. Until then, it's all something preliminary, internal. Only between the founders. Fifth point – "Organization diagram of management society". First of all, I don't know what a diagram means. No Albianic, probably he's using that term more in his mathematics, but I don't know what that could mean here, the organisation scheme of society, the way businesses are organised, is society divided into sectors, etc.? Please, probably the first society to be formed in accordance with this law, I'm absolutely sure they won't have more than 10 employees. That society just makes a decision and makes some papers. All end banks, stock exchanges, etc. You have a provision where this company can pass on to a specialized organization. I don't know what kind of diagram this is, then, scheme. The Internal Affairs Act, it can only be brought to the moment when someone becomes a legal person. This is the preliminary part. If you'd said some elaborate on justification or an elaborate on feasibility, I could understand that, but here it's listed and everything that's listed isn't in function, if all the conditions are met, that it's something serious. You have to know, whenever the law sets something up as a right or as a possibility, so it's conditioned by a large number of conditions that have to be met, there's nothing. That's completely infallible to you, the one who proposes the law makes it clear. I'll put in a large number of conditions, but I'll apply them selectively. In the practice of the Ministry of Finance, we have a situation that they're a sharp saber, Milo sabers, they're all like that. In practice, however, it does not matter. In practice, they treat pets that way, though, are now much more honest. We'll report to the next members, where there's a very significant impact on all of this on the artistic impression, which they would say, because they've introduced into the bill the figures of style, the pirates and the feelings. Of course, the text, the law can only become more serious if these amendments are adopted. This here, which is written, only allows someone to have arbitrary access to the decision-making process, whether or not to be allowed to work. Since it's so obvious, it would be a shame and shame for the SRS if we didn't react. However, we have the most experience, as far as these jobs are concerned in Serbia, so we simply have to warn you, and for ourselves, for the citizens and for those who got in line with the provisions of this law, they must know that these conditions guarantee only the selective approach of the one who decides and who determines whether the conditions are met. So, again, I have to remind you, in order to apply this, you're going to have to change the Securities Commission. I've already heard who will be there, the tycoons will be protected, and the small shareholders and those who have little resources and want to place them, protect them through an investment fund, won't get some god-knowing guarantee. You will see what will be the rope between the companies and those who have the majority participation, i.e. those qualified to whom we have just talked within Article 2, where definitions of what is qualified participation are given. We need to inform you in time so the citizens don't come to us tomorrow and complain about how they've been cheated. In time, I warn you that behind these conditions and provisions there is a great prank and protection of the interests of a few people. Believe me, it's in Serbia ten stakeholders, more or less connected.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27088	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 10th is also a problem for the motionary himself. So, in Article 10, there are conditions that someone should meet with a request to issue a license for the operation of a management company. The law itself is in collegiate with many laws. We had a law here that regulated the establishment of companies. It's even nice to say here, in Article 4. – "The management company is founded exclusively as a closed stock company. The management companies shall be subject to the provisions of the laws governing companies, unless otherwise specified by this law." Now let's see where that's different. It is already said in article 6, paragraph 10: "The Commission is making a decision on the issue of a work permit and is run by the Register of Management Companies". So all this work is done by the Commission. Then what provisions apply to companies? Why did we set up the Business Registers Agency? So far, this job has been done by trade courts. You said -- you're not capable, they have no idea the courts, there are possible abuses, the judges are corrupt, and you're in power. Instead of making judges no longer corrupt, it doesn't matter, keep being corrupt, but we're gonna take some jobs away from you. Then you founded the Agency for Business Registers. The position of the SRS was, if it can't be done already, or if you think the court isn't good for it, let the National Bank, the central bank, do whatever you want. No, no, this solution in the world has been applied. All right, you've passed the Business Society Act, you've passed the Business Registers Agency Act, you've given the Agency jurisdiction that it's the one who runs the Register, which issues work permits, etc. You wrote everything she had to have from that technical equipment and how to do her website, you even went into detail when it was the law. Management companies will not work for the Agency for Business Registers, but will work for the Commission, so why is it that it talks about the creation of a single Register of All Business Companies. Why, then, you passed the law and boasted that in one single register, all companies, even entrepreneurs and natural persons, would be engaged in certain activities. Now we have a Securities Committee and it will run some of its own special register, when it comes to management companies. Now let's see, it was in the previous amendment, submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, the story of attitude 7. Let's see what is said in this point: "With the application for a work permit, there is: 5) an organisational diagram of the management society; 7) evidence of organisational and technical training." Let's do this a little bit, and whether the stock company is an open or closed type, it means its activity, in accordance with the law, but when it comes to its internal arrangement, it's living matter that changes. I know, the G17 loves these diagrams, they used it in the 2003 campaign and they made them for "Lutra", Dusan Mihailovic, for Bodrum, for the bankruptcy of some companies, etc. So, for all the living and those are cartoon diagrams, how money was stolen. G17 came to power, and where are the proceedings against these thefts? The biggest success was the arrest of the President of the Trade Court, Kljajevic, but where they are real tycoons, he only worked for someone. It's not there. Those diagrams, where are they? Missing. Now let's go back to the organizational diagrams. Do you really think anyone, as long as there is this stock society, will maintain their internal organization as it had at the beginning of its work? He won't. If it is too expensive for him, he will decrease, and if his work is good, he will increase. That's not the final thing. It's living matter. Each director, in any company, if he wants his company to work successfully, constantly experiment, and constantly check his internal service and internal control service, until there's a solution he's satisfied with. You do not need consent to such arrangements, not even the consent of the Management Board, except when it comes to systematicisation, and only for public undertakings, if their sublegal acts are provided for. Someone explain to me, if there is an organisational diagram of the management company, then there is also a need to provide evidence of organisational and technical skills. The diagram itself is already some proof whether it will write Pera or some other name and some other story, whether they will have to bring their professional qualifications and prove the preparation, etc. It's living matter today, and it's often happening, so someone gets a license to work and work, hires the person he needs to perform that work. As soon as he gets a solution, he breaks his working relationship, a man works with hope, if he gets caught—he gets caught, he pays the fine and brings someone else to the temporary. You insist on things that aren't and shouldn't be so precisely defined by law. When it comes to technical training, here, let one of the promoters come out for this pay phone and say what this technical training is, what is proof that he bought a computer, that he has an account, that there will be standards for that computer? For the past few years, three or four generations of computers have changed. Are you going to tell them how big the hard drive must have, what hardware, software, etc. That'll be out of date in six months. Is there going to be one table or two, how many chairs, what kind of room is it? You're really exaggerating in some things. If a person wants to carry out a certain activity, if he meets that other regulation regarding his non-judgment or if it is necessary to have a specific calling or professional arrangement, it can be prescribed by law. People, only when it comes to technical training, are it envisaged by law and in which area, even when it comes to production and trade in life supplies. Why? So as not to endanger the health and lives of the citizens and nothing else. All this other stuff, when it comes to the office part of the job, if you want to determine – you have to have an office at "Sava Center" or "Genex's Apartments", or do you have to buy an office from Miodrag Kostic at the mouth – so you can do certain work? This can all be stated by the Commission under the legal acts. What can you do for them? Nothing. Why? He says we have the authority, by law. Just leave it alone. Do you want to determine the height of their chairs? Really, I understand when it comes to the grocery trade and it's said - the floor can't be ugly, it must have that height and it must have a cooling device and so on. But for office and technical conditions, I've really never seen it anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27090	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27091	It works for the public who's following this session, if anyone's following, just to remove one dilemma from the beginning. It's not some kind of cleavage, and it's not that it's something that makes someone "go to the end" that's very important, because the rules of business of these societies and the rules on which investment funds work aren't so controversial. This is a dispute where the state is wondering whether it is in the image of the Minister of Finance, the Government or some committee of values, where the powers are drawn up by building in the law quite undefined and arbitrary norms that enable the selectiveness of the one who decides, thus creating a monopoly and stretching some, and some are closing, or making it impossible for them to work. You see, evidence of organisational and technical training would have to be some act that's undeniable. We already have that in our legal system. There are inspection bodies that come out at the request of the party and determine whether the minimum technical conditions for the performance of certain activities are met, then there is a market inspection, and depending on the performance, a sanitary, possibly labour inspection, etc. However, here evidence of organisational and technical training is not that, nor is it what Mr. Arsic said, accounts that computers, chairs, etc. were purchased. You don't know what it is here. It's now being over-indicated to Article 11. In Article 10, there is a request for authorisation, and in Article 11, it is the issue of a work permit and it begins: "The Commission shall issue a work permit when it determines the validity of the request". Since Zoran Stojkovic became justice minister and Vojislav Kostunica came to the post of president, a term has appeared in our "valid" rights and has never existed before. It could be "legal" or "illegal". It says, "when it determines the validity of the requirements of Article 10 of this Act and when it evaluates." It must stand – when it determines. The state authority shall determine whether the conditions are met and may not assess whether they have been met. It estimates where she has discretionary rights. There's no right here, it has to determine if what's written in the previous article has been fulfilled. You'll still be estimating. This is covered by Mrs. Verice Radete's amendment and she's asking for it to change, so that instead of the word "evaluating" the word "confirm". However, we have submitted a few more amendments to this article, because what is written is really rude. Point 1) – "the origin of the underlying capital is clear and doubtless on the basis of the evidence attached". I guess it's been determined that the legal origin of the underlying capital. You do not potential the legality of that capital, but transparency, that the origin of the underlying capital is clear and unquestionably. According to this, it can be clear and doubtless that it's from an island. You are not giving a valuable court to determine, and we have covered it with the amendment by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic. Furthermore, point 2) – that the evidence referred to in Article 10(7) of this Act is credible. Evidence convincing? I can't figure this out. For twenty-two years, I've only been doing laws and regulations, and for the first time, I find the word "convincing" in the law. That's never been done before. A man learns while he's alive, learns to know something and to be smart, and he doesn't learn not to know and be stupid. He says, "The evidence in article 10 of Section 7 of this law is convincing." That's the first I've heard of it. Who do they have to be convincing about? For Young Dinkic? What's convincing to him is not to me. You've convinced me of something, it might look like an art skating grade, an artistic and technical aspect of skating. There's a lot going on with you. Take care, all of you who set fire to the Federal Assembly, as soon as you fall from power, you will have certain actions. Next, this is all about destroying the state, they're not that naive. It's all CIA agents, credentials, confidentiality, similarity, etc. You've all burned down the Assembly and talked about the state being inconclusive, as it depends on power. You wrote all the regulations to depend on you. This little bit more of you, running from G17 plus, when you fall from power, you'll get worse than the Socialists on the streets on October 5th. Furthermore, item 1 point 4) - "on the basis of the information received, it can be concluded that persons holding qualified participation are similar and reliable". What would be similar and reliable? It's probably like someone with a qualified participation and if they have a G17 plus membership card. That's how I interpret what you wrote, I don't know how else I could interpret it. Who's like you? At present, one that is in the Youth sect is similar – G17 plus, and everyone else is unsuitable. When you were changing MPs, it says "G17 Plus Election List" – Miroljub Labus. The question is, do you meet the conditions of being in the congregation? There's no bearer of your list. Who's confidential? It's classified who knows how to keep a secret. A person with qualified participation, is it confidential, reliable, and who estimates it? A new securities commission based on information received? Who's supposed to give you that information? The chairmanship of the G17, the Executive Board of the G17? Who gives you this confidential information? What do classified information have to do with the conditions prescribed by the law that it can work? You're asking him to be reliable, confidential. You have what's confidential in Nis, was in the SPO, then in the DS, so he came to you again. How confidential and reliable is he, that Banana? He knows he's doing business with money, and he knows he's lying when he's on TV. He is trustworthy and trustworthy to you, like. Such regulations were not passed by communists after 1948. You can't find this in regulations. You'll find two provisions. First, if a police officer wants to marry, he has to get the captain's consent to marry his future wife, if he's not from the Chetnik family. That's what you write, that's what you wrote here. You say that on the basis of the information received, and I can put in a bracket (CIA, IMF and other spy organisations, led by Javier Solana), it can be concluded (young ones) that the persons (G17 plus members) who own the qualified majority (have more than 70% of the capital) are similar (financed by G17 plus and when the leg cannot work so it has to be raised, you know who) and reliable (they can hide all information from Mladjan Dinkic, how money is laundered and where are money from Cyprus). It's an interpretation, according to what you wrote. You can't do that to people, the state is a serious thing. The state isn't a toy, and you made it a toy with these provisions. Because if you don't agree with something, it can't exist. If there's anything contrary to Junior's interests, he's gone, he'll wipe himself out. If necessary, and the court will burn, the Assembly and the National Bank, all to be burned, for it is driven by urge, not reason, knowledge and love of the state, country, according to this people, but urge and some of his personal interests, engulfed in vanity. You know this well, and you will be the victims of his vanity. Finally, the last position, we covered it with the amendment, and we will talk about this: "Nearer conditions for determining the criteria of similarity and reliability of a person who acquires qualified participation, i.e. members of the management board and director of the management company, are determined by the Commission". The ideological commission, political commissioner G17 plus, is some new CK, which will prescribe criteria on which to determine reliability and similarity. You're asking us to vote for it rudely. We don't want to vote, but we'll let the citizens know. Citizens, you understand, it burned to the nail, because of the different combinations, the variants. In the government of the Republic of Serbia, some sit and look forward to deciding, when it comes to the referendum, that Montenegro is no longer in the community with Serbia. I call on the people of Montenegro to vote for the survival of this country. We'd better get rid of these criminals who are in power, save the state, but because of criminals and their interests, to tear down the state. Mladjan Dinkic now expects, wishes to break up the state, he conditioned this government in this assembly and composition, so he will remand himself to someone from the federal government, or from the Council of Ministers, I don't even know what it's called, that's what you did when you destroyed the state, and become an insecure and abnormal ingredient of the survival of this government. So these are all kinds of variations. I'm absolutely certain that whoever loves this country with 2% would never let this bill go into practice. However, Labus signed it and was then in the government, and Kostunica had to accept it in order to preserve this government. Probably he and his men know that this is nonsense and that what's written is dangerous, but they're much more pronounced than how they're going to rule. What do we got? Give in to this, give in to that: the state is torn apart. We can't let you down here. We have to criticize you, but when we have a basis for criticism. That's why we've submitted these amendments to distract the public. Under this law, a small number of people will work, at the top of the head of ten interested groups, variable composition and so on, and depending on how they argue and who they wink at. Vlahovic won't hear from Djelic now, and until a year ago, they were inseparable friends, just like Dinkic. He tricked him into this: "You come in, you come out and you're done." A group of young, beautiful and smart economists appeared to know what a transfer is, what capital is, and they're now making us sick. They're successful, business, smart. Look at those smart guys, what they're suggesting. When the elections are held, I will provide you with press-clipping, what you have criticised in certain laws of the red-black coalition, when it was in power, so I will parallelly, when you came to power what you have proposed, what formulations, and linguistic, grammatical and all possible criteria, what is worse. You won't get half a percent, remember. For two years, I've only been drawing you to this, to get out of the mouse hole, to make it clear to everyone. I'll do my best for a few more days, since this is your last session. We'll have one longer and you'll never be here again. After that, there'll be an election. I will take the opportunity to strip all of this to convince the citizens who put socks on their heads with guns entered the National Bank of Serbia at the invitation of Dusan Vlatkovic. I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27092	Time. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment by Miss Natasa Jovanovic refers to Article 11, which is completely unspeakable. In view of the fact that this member refers to the issue of a management company's work permit, companies likely to constitute investment units of tens of thousands of Serbian citizens, it is best to be seen on the basis of this article as far as this law is unsettled. It is absolutely right that Mr Krasic, for the authorisation of such a society, for the management of such capital, it is necessary to have significantly clearer regulations. Therefore, as regards this amendment in particular, it concerns point (1), where it is said, in this first part, that the Commission shall issue a work permit when it determines the validity of the requirement laid down in Article 10 of this Act and where it considers that the origin of the underlying capital is clearly and doubtless on the basis of the evidence attached. Obviously, we were saying something about it in Article 10, that the Securities Commission does not have the capacity to assess how clearly the underlying capital is defined, how clearly its origin is defined, and thus they have to deal with much more serious institutions. As my fellow MP Ivan Radic said, we have a Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which has never been brought to life and, when it comes to corruption, has been mentioned many times as an institution that can enable the reduction of corruption in our society. It is obvious that there is no interest in clearing up corruption in our country, so there is no Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Apparently, tycoons who have acquired capital in a suspicious way for years can continue, regardless of this clause in Article 11, to include their money in Serbia's economy. I think this possibility will allow the Commission for securities of value to assess on its own whether the origin of the underlying capital is clearly and unquestionably defined, to eliminate half of the competition, when it comes to issuing work permits. Such a formulation will allow some to obtain a work permit, and some will not, just because the Charter Commission will assess the validity of their evidence. So, another proof that the Charter Commission will be in the future a state in the country, and all that the SRS MPs have already said, I must add that so many discretionary rights are inadmissible for the commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27094	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27095	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, as in Articles 10 and 11 again, we have in the law a certain broad and quite clear provision of the powers of the Commission. It is already said in Article 11 first paragraph that the Commission shall issue a work permit when it determines the validity of the requirement laid down in Article 10 of this Act. The Commission is part of the government, the state authority and it does not have the right to assess whether something is in accordance with the law or not, but must clearly establish it. The amendment has been submitted to that member and to that part of the text of the designation. In the government's opinion, the amendment is said to be rejected because it is an unacceptable legal order, given that the same word that does not change the meaning of this provision would be repeated twice in the same sentence. So, according to you, when something is determined, it's the same as when it's estimated. I'm sorry if it's for article 10. The Commission shall issue a work permit when it determines that the correct conditions set out in Article 10 are, then it shall establish that the conditions are also met in Article 11 of this proposal. Although, in your opinion, it's a legal-technical editorial, but who can have an estimate? The assessment can have a football judge, a basketball judge, any other sports judge; it can have a director of a company, whether a job is worth it or not; the assessment can have a judge, whether Trade, Municipal, District, Supreme, Constitutional Court. Law enforcement bodies, meaning executive power, must determine, not evaluate. That's the problem with this law. If the assessment is incorrect, it does not withdraw any responsibility other than morals, and if someone makes the wrong assessment, then resigns on duty. If it finds and does not establish in accordance with the law, there is already a criminal liability for the unconscious conduct of business, etc. So if you already want to give the Commission some authority, then you're going to have to force her to use those powers exclusively in accordance with the law, because based on the wrong assessment, as far as I know, no one has been prosecuted. Maybe someone was obliged to compensate for the damage, but no one had ever been prosecuted before. Next, we have a repeat from Article 10. Therefore, pursuant to Article 10, proof of the origin of the founding capital is necessary, and in Article 11, the origin of the underlying capital clearly and doubtless on the basis of the evidence provided. Now you're repeating the same thing. In Article 10, it must establish, in Article 11, an estimate of the same thing. I was surprised by the response that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave to the amendment submitted by Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS, so it is said that the amendment is not accepted, because the matter governed by this bill is not subject to the regulation of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and therefore it is necessary to regulate it by this law, and therefore it is necessary to give the Commission of Papers the power to verify the origin of capital, since it is one of the largest participants in the domestic capital market. Now one question - what criterion and what legal powers will the Committee on Papers benefit from when checking the origin of money? What law, besides this one, will he call? It will have to be called to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, it will have to be called to the same powers that the Commission has to prevent money laundering. He will have to ask for the same reports from banks, tourist organisations, casinos, savings and other financial market participants as soon as the payment is considered normal. So the law already sets criteria when some money is checked. Even when you go to the exchange office and change 100 euros, if you're doing it in multiple exchanges, you're obliged to show your ID, so that report is sent to the Money Laundering Commission, because someone, my God, can go around 30-40 shifts today, so you figure out how much it is, so multiply by the number of days a year, and you'll see that it's huge money. Even those provisions are written in law. Even for individual payments that are in one day in multiple banks, even those provisions exist in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. So this matter is already regulated by law. Why are you burdening the Securities Commission with that? You already have the authority of the administration to take care of it. You've already boasted to these authorities of the administration, that these are people who are not party-defined, who are already doing this job, but they've been working on regulations and other sublegal acts, so you're not even going to change them, but you're going to put them in that Money Laundering Commission, because they already have some experience. Let me say that everything you said is true, but why now the same job has to be done by the Securities Committee. She has no experience with this, no such authority as the Commission has to prevent money laundering. It is absolutely certain that the Commission, in order to prevent money laundering, can more crediblely determine the origin of capital that is the founding role of any management company or any company that exists, whether it is a company, whether it is an entrepreneur, a craftsman, a natural person and a citizen. So that's already regulated by one law. Why is the promoter, and this has already become the manner of this government, making parallel legislation? We have not only in this area parallel legislation, we have in criminal law. If you are already passing one law, if that government really exists, if it is homogeneous, as you present it, as soon as one law is passed, at the next first session, you can make changes and add criminal proceedings, where criminal sanctions will be laid down for the violation of the law that was brought at the previous session. Criminal law isn't something that's mostly, in terms of invariability. Every society that develops develops, economics develops, unfortunately develops the possibility of abuse and committing crimes. Then why are you not supplementing this criminal law, but making parallel criminal provisions, which are often contrary to the Criminal Law? We also have in this law: if someone creates a fake picture of someone, etc. That's what you have in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and it says it's a crime of fraud. It is taxed for which the value of this is a criminal act of fraud, which penalties are provided for in relation to the severity of that crime, based on the value of the property obtained or the damage suffered by a person. There's no such thing here. If conditions are met, what law will be applied? The guilty or the one who individually regulates a criminal area? What law will be in place when it comes to preventing money laundering? Is the Charter Act of Value, Investment Funds or the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering? (President: Time.) There's time for the SRS, and you're running out of time faster than you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27096	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled by MP Milan Skrbic refers, in fact, to Article 11 of Article 1(2), which says that the evidence provided by Article 10(7) of this law is convincing. We have already talked about the fact that these credentials are not acceptable in one serious legislative project, but to explain this amendment to my colleague, Skrbić, it is necessary that you recognize in Article 10, Article 10, too, as regards the application for authorisation for work, the necessity, or the requirement to provide evidence of organisational and technical training. The evidence of organisational and technical training itself is not defined by this law at all, and it is not known what it is, but the issue of the licence requires proof from that Article 10, meaning evidence of organisational and technical training should be credible. This assurance provides the Commission with the ability to issue a permit for the operation of the management company. It is obvious that this assurance is necessary to bribe whether with a thousand, two, three, ten thousand euros, to be more convincing than the opponent. It is obvious that such legal norms encourage, above all, corruption, the will of individuals and the abuse of laws and that is what the SRS is up against from its establishment. It is necessary, and it is, of course, proposed by the SRS and my colleague, that you accept this amendment and that we avoid these irregularities, not only in this one, but in all the legal projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27098	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27099	Here, again, and this amendment refers to how the Commission should work. So it is said: "The Commission shall issue a work permit when it determines the validity of the requirement of Article 10 of this Act and when it assesses:" and part of the text which is deleted – "2) that the evidence provided for in Article 10(7) of this Law is credible. "Let's look at the evidence in Article 10(7). "According to the requirements for granting a work permit, it shall be submitted to: 1) a founding act of the management company." Now, which is proof of the founding act and for which he must be convincing. A founding act can be brought by an individual, by a congregation, etc. It will be confirmed by some signature, the seal is still missing, unless they're legal entities that are going to start a management company, but they can also be physical. So is the Commission going to do a survey with every person signed on that founding act? The only way to determine the validity is that, there's no other way. Let's see further – "2) evidence of the payment of the underlying capital to the bank's temporary account". Will a receipt like that be checked, asked for a copy, or would they simply seek a report from that business bank and in what way and with what powers? So the one paying the founding capital will have to sign the Commission's consent to check his account, that temporary or whatever you call it. You know, certain public administration authorities have the authority to control certain accounts, but these are accounts concerning public revenues, accounts from certain economic activities can only be controlled by inspection authorities and the procedure is already regulated by the Tax Procedure Act, the Tax Administration, etc. Does the Commission have the authority to ask the commercial bank to submit a report to it, is it true that this amount is actually paid in that account? No, he'll have to contribute to the consent of the persons who opened that temporary account and paid the money. So that's not regulated by this law. "Provestment of the origin of founding capital"; we have already talked about it so much, wouldn't it be best if the old Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering, so let the Charter Commission asked her for a report, is this really, in accordance with the law, acquired or not, or its origin suspiciously. That's the only way it can work, the Money Laundering Commission is the one who already has the authority to check every payment, you gave it the right to the law. Why are we now making a parallel law that needs to come into force? "The company's management rules"; now, what are the rules and who determines those rules, is that regulated by law? It's not. Should the Commission, under Article 11, ensure that these rules are in accordance with the law, business morality, etc? This is already an intrusion into the internal organization of a legal person, so let's call it a management company. For the Securities Commission, it is important who represents it before the law and other bodies. It may simply request, with a founding act, to indicate who the Director is and whose rights are limited or unlimited, but internal systematisation should not be subject to the work of the Securities Commission. The Commission is only interested in who is before the law and other authorities, who has the authority. "Organization diagram of the management society," and that's what we were talking about. What kind of diagram is that? So the director, so what goes under the director, who's the board of directors, is he going to have the Supervisory Board, is he going to go through the Assembly system, who's going to represent who? What are you writing about, what are the provisions that will be applied to the law, what are the values for the Commission to determine whether the organisational diagram of the management society is correct? Based on what? The management company still doesn't exist, it has yet to be established. What happens if public society changes its organisational diagram, does it lose his license to work? Because, my God, it didn't provide an organisational diagram to the Securities Committee. Either you control whether he really adheres to that organizational diagram, all question, or who guarantees that when he gets his license, he won't change the organizational diagram? This diagram may not correspond to the Securities Commission, but there are no conditions for it to be withdrawn from its work permit. That's the problem with writing laws. List of shareholders by name, name and address, i.e. a copy of the register of legal entities, shareholders of the management company, i.e. certified translation of the copy of the register for foreign legal entities. When it comes to the list of shareholders by name and last name, i.e. a copy of the register of legal entities, does the legislator know that the Agency for Economic Registers has not yet been able to register all legal and natural persons performing the activity. We even had amendments and additions to the Commercial Registers Act, where we extended those deadlines for registering economic operators. Finally, the proposed extensions were not sufficient, but were later kept silently grumbling that the Commercial Registers Commission did not arrive to respond to the requirements of the market for operators. How someone's gonna deliver a copy of the business register, when there's still no such thing as a business register as it's supposed to be. Again, we have evidence of organisational and technical training. When it comes to a simple independent trade, more competent inspectors come out to give someone permission to work and perform certain activities, each in their own area. It was both veterinary and market and sanitary, etc. How is the Commission going to implement this now? Will the Commission have its own inspection service that will go from office to office to check if it really has a certain height, does it really have that equipment that he has provided as evidence, a list of that equipment that attaches as evidence? I see that, if you do not accept amendments to the SRS, the Commission for Charters of Values in the Implementation of this Law will have a great headache that such a law will really live in practice and I believe that it will take a lot more time than you have set in the transitional and final provisions, that the Securities Commission will regulate it with sublegal acts, even though you could regulate it by law yourself, or the Proposer, if you think that it only cares about law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27100	Anyone else want a word? National MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27101	It is often followed by this speaker, and in the interpretation of the law, and now that the amendments are very important, spoken and quite correctly, that this law is very important, which I fully agree with, a law that should define a future very important segment in the society of capital and in general in the economy and finance, which is also necessary, in such a developed, organised, legally defined way and that they exist, that they live in this society, as well as in all other developed societies that we probably seek. It is out of this specificity, the need for such a law, from the specificity that this law regulates once very sensitive things, that the law has solutions that, in part, have relatively unusual forms, in the sense that they may not be present in other legal proposals and solutions. Investment funds are one phenomenon in our financial sphere, something that will bind to itself quite a capital, at least we all hope, and above all, the legislator, as well as this law-making parliament. It should happen that funds are tied to themselves and a great interest in investors, not only those who have a lot of money, but also citizens who don't know how much money, but they have a part of the money they want to invest. Investment is expected and how it strengthens through investment funds, not only investment from abroad, and we need, as a country, in a long-term strategy, to have as much investment from abroad as possible, but also to collect through such investment funds the investment funds of the citizens of this country themselves, through this investment, to fertilise their capital somewhere, to put them into circulation, to invest, and to invest from this capital, as citizens of this country, individually and organised in different ways, to have some kind of profit, to live from it. I don't speak rhetorically or completely empty, I just want to point out that it's very important that this law has a certain, slightly non-specific legal solution in that kind of legal technology. That is why, even here, at least that is how I understand some of the bill's proposals, a solution is inserted in Article 11 that the Commission determines certain things, which is also its obligation. It's what this law and some other laws give as a right, determine some things, but what has often been pointed out here has the possibility to assess, not to determine, but to carry out an evaluation. The assessment is something that is not a direct legal obligation, nor a legal option, but it is necessary when such things are very important that it exists as a specific position, a binding position, in a way, and the Commission which should control a very important part, a large amount of money, and therefore to control the obligations that certain bodies mentioned in this law must have for that very reason. What's mentioned, and I think it's ultimately about this, to point out, is that in the previous Article 10, in point 7, the Commission should be able to assess, because that's the only thing it can do, it can't determine some things, what's given it as a possibility, that the evidence in this Article 7 is convincing. "Convincing," also a bit of an unusual term, but it gives us, or gives the Commission, a kind of obligation and a right to, in accordance with what it gets as a mandate from those who invest, do right. So, to assess whether there's a founding act, a management company, as it looks. Of course, it's important that we know what it's like to be a founding act and whether it really applies, even in some form, in the right way, to what this kind of society is meant to be, or an investment fund. Also, management company rules, of course, that the Commission should assess, even if it is a form again, what are the rules of business, because these people should have, on behalf of a large number, probably an investor, and with a large amount of money. The Commission should nevertheless see what the rules are. It's something that's very specific, though. Also mentioned is an organisational diagram of the management society. It's probably form again. She can be changed. I completely understand, I come from the economy, I know how it can be changed, whether it can be respected or not, but the Commission still needs to see what the diagram looks like in the initial initial work itself and whether it can show the seriousness of what the investment fund should deal with, or whether that permit can be given to someone or not. Also, evidence, that is often mentioned, about organisational and technical training. It won't be that, I'm almost convinced, the story of chairs or ceiling heights, I hope they were some notes that were more rhetorical. Nobody thinks they're going to do this, but some of these technical skills have to be shown as evidence, especially of seriousness and willingness to control or manage the investment fund the way it should be done. Those who invest can believe that what is done is done seriously and in their favor, not to their harm. Also, the list of persons to perform the tasks of the portfolio manager, the authorised auditor, does not have to be something that the Commission will assess, but I think it is really good that through this law, through this Article 11, the Commission has one kind of obligation to state its position and to be a little more serious about assessing whether someone can deal with such a large and responsible business, such as the management and establishment of an investment fund. I know there's no law on opening files like that. So, the Securities Commission won't be able and there's no authority to ask this law to put something like that on her mind. I believe that Article 11 paragraph 1 is point 4 – that "on the basis of the information obtained it can be concluded that persons who possess qualified participation are similar and reliable", that is, in practice, inadmissible. So, some of these conditions must be met, or the data will be provided by the Ministry of the Interior or by the BIA, or the Commission will establish its own branch to deal with spying on some business morality, business or something like that. If you meet one of these three conditions, the Securities Commission may fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 11(1) of point 4 of this Article. Otherwise, it cannot or will simply be assessed on the basis of whether someone belonged to another political option earlier, which the political option now, how many political parties have changed, how close it was to the previous government, and how close it is to the current one, whether they are in good or bad relations, etc. The very provision that the Commission collects information, and not provided for by the law in which and from which it collects it, gives the Commission the right to commit certain abuses, because at some point it may say – we could not obtain some information, we knew that something was wrong, but we could not obtain it, and therefore we had to give consent, or permission to work, because it was not intended by law to receive that information. I believe that the Commission for the implementation of this law will have a lot of problems, especially when it comes to some definitions that are not practical at all applicable and I believe that it will often be used to change the commission that is not similar and reliable. Therefore, you failed to apply the provision in Article 11(4) and should no longer be members of the Commission. That's why we're going to propose to the National Assembly, or to the competent assembly body, the Charter of Values Act has passed, to replace you, and how these provisions will be implemented is not being carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27102	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27103	Here, we are coming out of Article 11, which we have already said a lot about, and this amendment by colleagues Zlatan Jovanovic refers to attitude 4, where it is said: "Station 4 is deleted". I'd read Section 4 so you could see how absurd that attitude is. "Nearer conditions for determining the criteria of similarity and reliability of a person who acquires qualified participation, i.e. members of the management board and director of the management company, shall be determined by the Commission". Once again, and yesterday I said, and that stands after all we've heard about the Investment Funds Act, it's obvious that the Securities Commission is all-powerful, the entire financial market we could have left to the Securities Committee, not to deal with it here and not to waste our time and taxpayers' money trying to fix something that's extremely bad at first. I would say that the argument provided by the Government, which mainly refers to the fact that it is in line with European Union directives relating to financial markets, is quite a smut, often incorrect, and the fact is that the European Union institutions themselves are quite unhappy with this bill, and you could also read it in the press. Many of the institutes that were to contain this proposal of the Investment Funds Act, above all on the securities market of value, which is systemically, the basic law from which the other laws we are going to discuss today, are not in line with the will of international institutions, and apparently the world recognized that these laws were made in the interest of individuals and individual groups, lobbys on the financial market. If that were not the case, today we would have a much better offer of stock exchanges, we could count on big-class companies of type Elektroprivreda Serbia, on actions related to "Mobtel". I see that you're selling the "Mobtel" in a tender, instead of doing as much action as possible to boost the financial market, because the first-class action raises the price of not only large and strong enterprises, but also those with weaker and worse financial performances, but obviously, the government has no intention of doing anything about it, to come to a more serious law. Bad macroeconomic indicators, including a poor economic environment, do not go hand in hand with such a law, when the law is passed so vaguely and vaguely, when there is no intention of consecrating the law, to move away from some norms that are adapted to the possibilities of the financial market today, it is clear that we will not be able to count on any improvement from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27104	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27105	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, MP Zlatan Jovanovic, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment requesting that Article 11 of Article 4 be deleted. Let's see what it says in that attitude. "Nearer conditions for determining the criteria of similarity and reliability of a person who acquires qualified participation, i.e. members of the management board and director of the management company, shall be determined by the Commission". The explanation given by Zlatan Jovanovic says: "This matter is already regulated by Article 12. The bill, therefore, does not require any sublaw. "The government's reasons for not accepting this amendment are detailed in the sublegal act of the Securities Commission and in accordance with the directives of the European Union which regulate this area." So it seems that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that when something needs to be rejected, they immediately call for European Union directives. Show me this directive where it says that the Securities Commission, by means of a sublegal act, edits which persons are similar and reliable. Does she really exist? Even if it is, and it exists, I don't think the European Union will mind having something regulated by law, not by sublaw. It's an even higher standard, stricter, even better regulated an area. Now, if you already have experience from the countries of the European Union, which you have not copied, you have put into law, and what is said in Article 12, which can only be the basis for applying to the Commission's work. Therefore: "The management bodies of the management company shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing companies, unless otherwise specified by this law. A person who is not legally convicted of criminal acts against labour, business, property, judiciary, public order and legal traffic, official duties, bribes and corruption, as well as criminal offences and commercial offences established by laws governing the market of securities of value, privatisation, activity of insurance, banks and other financial organisations may be selected as the director and member of the management board of the management company. "Are these criteria for determining the similarity and reliability of a person? They did. What sublegal act, why a sublegal act, could something in a sublegal act be contrary to Article 12 of this Act? You got it. Which one is closer to being regulated by a sublegal act? All possible types of crimes you listed, even introduce business crimes. So it's not criminal legislation anymore, it's a business offense. So, someone there, for a commercial offense in 1992 or 1993, because they didn't report the compensation you abolished as soon as you came to power, won't be able to be in a society like this. He won't be able to be a director, nothing, for a simple economic offense that essentially didn't cause anyone any harm or gain property benefit. So all the possible species, all the restrictions you could have invented, you put them on. What is left for the Commission to define the criteria of similarity by means of a sublegal act, the reliability of a person who acquires qualified participation, what is to be regulated by a sublegal act, whether or not to determine the number of shoes, height, weight, what is left. Will he possibly determine that on the basis of whether he was Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vojislav Kostunica, Mirko Marjanovic? What is reliability, are these criteria? What kind of sublegal act, what it's going to look like, is the problem when you write the law, and it's been in the process since 8 September 2005. Why didn't you give him a more serious public hearing? Why didn't you, because you'd get safe remarks and suggestions on a law like this, you could at least think about it. This is how you go out to the media, we write this law and that law, he regulates it here and there, we solve all the problems, the law is great, and I believe that some people really think it's great, but when it starts to comb in the assembly session, first in principle, and then in detail, and then on committees, it's not exactly ideal and enforceable anymore. When it happens in the Assembly, now one logical question, what will really happen in its application, because there is a combing of the law even more rigorously, there is just going into that tiny worm, as our people say, to determine what can be applied in the law, and what cannot. You have already set the criteria in Article 12, so Article 11, this last attitude is completely unnecessary and therefore we suggest that it be deleted. Do not in one law, in members who go after each other, create such a problem, give the Commission powers that do not belong to it and which are already regulated by law, and this Commission should establish, by sublaw, something that already exists in the law itself. In such a way, it is avoided that the National Assembly should give consent, and in fact adopts the law and simply one authority of the state administration, based on the powers passed by the Assembly by the vote of this law and by not accepting such amendments, will take over the work of the MPs. It seems to me it is the purpose of this executive government. So that the Serbian Parliament should be just a voting machine in the service of the Government of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, because all the laws he writes and which are so, give him the right to be considered a man above the law, above the Constitution, and this can be achieved in some countries that are in anarchy, but in a country that is a Republican type, who has democratically elected bodies of the legislative authority, this should not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27106	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27107	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 13(2), after the word "zakona" is proposed to delete the rest of the text. Article 13 refers to giving consent to the selection of members of the management board and director of the management company and it is quite clear in the first part of the position that the Commission is making decisions on granting consent to the selection of the proposed members of the management board and directors of the management company, on the basis of evidence that the conditions laid down in Article 12 of this Act have been met. This Article 12 is quite sufficient, it prescribes the conditions necessary to meet these conditions in order to come to an agreement on the selection of members of the board of directors of society, and if we look at Article 12, you will see that a large number of attitudes define these conditions. Therefore, it is quite unnecessary to supplement – "when it is estimated that the proposed members of the board and the director are similar and reliable". Again, we are going back to the problem of the ominous assessment of morality, similarity, management and management of the investment fund management society. The fact is that, as far as morality and management are concerned, it is not legal regulations, but often control of the work of the management company, and often control the work of investment funds, and that is what the Securities Commission should insist on, and the question is whether it is professionally and technically qualified to carry out all these controls, to adopt this illegal sublegal act accompanying this law. But how control is carried out will also result in the work of management itself, because management is often used by the ignorance and ignorance of the promoter, to abuse only the management society and to gain enormous wealth for this management chamber. Such examples are common, as well as examples of their accounts being filled in by foreign banks. From how some portfolio manager will assess what securities of value he should invest in the stockholder's money, he will also depend on the company's performance. For all of this, it is possible to ask for financial counter-services from owners and from the majority shareholders of a company. There are plenty of examples in our environment, and this should be insisted by the Securities Commission, that this is not the case. We need to have a financial market that enjoys the trust of all citizens, all potential investors, and a moral, honest financial market does not come with the help of the Knjiz Milos affair, the C-market, possibly when it comes to Toza Markovic, where we have a lot of problems. The institution itself, the Securities Commission itself, is collapsing. The main problem is to stress the importance of control and to pay particular attention to the Supervisory Board when operating a management company. Supervisory committees are very often in the position of company management spokesmans, not to worry about the role of citizens, but to ignore and overlook the obvious illegalities and possibly, inefficient spending of investors' funds in funds. Therefore, I think it is quite unnecessary to supplement this sentence, which Mr. Milovan Radovanovic noted well, and that his amendment is in place. The Securities Commission must be much more serious about controlling the work of all institutions that monitor the financial market, and not about such caucus institutes, complements relating to similarity and reliability, some discretionary rights, dissuasion and the financial market itself, and the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27108	Anyone else want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is really no way to explain this kind of perseverance of the proposings, when it comes to similarity and reliability, and Article 13 says: "The Commission agrees on the selection of the proposed members of the management board and directors of the management society. The Commission shall adopt a decision to give consent to the selection of the proposed members of the management board and director of the management company on the basis of evidence that the conditions laid down in Article 12 of this Act have been met." Against this part of the text, the applicant for the amendment, MP Milovan Radovanovic, has nothing. The part he suggested to delete is "and when he estimated that the proposed members of the board and the director were similar and reliable". Once again, for the sake of the public, I'm going to read what Article 12 provides for and what are the conditions. "For the director and member of the management board of the management company, a person who is not legally convicted of crimes against labour, business, property, judiciary, public order and legal traffic, official duties, bribery and corruption, as well as criminal offences and commercial offences established by the laws governing the securities market of value, privatisation, activity of insurance, banks and other financial organisations may be elected." He goes on to say, "The director and member of the management board of the management company cannot be a person who is: It is still said: "The director and members of the management board of the management company must have a high school preparation, with the director and at least half of the management members having to have at least three years of work experience gained in the performance of the value charters" so that the number of jobs is that I do not read the whole article 12. These are the conditions that should be sufficient for someone to get consent from the Commission. Furthermore, the word - "estimated" that the proposed members of the administration and the director of the administration are similar and reliable, is now given to the Commission the right to adopt a sublegal act and then to assess, rather than to determine, means on the basis of its free assessment to determine whether a person is similar and reliable in carrying out a single job. Even in the next position, it is mentioned how this assessment can be done, but that is what we will do when it comes to amendment by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. In this case, the Commission is therefore taking over two types of authorities which are regulated by the Constitution. With the creation of a sublegal act itself, it assumes competences from the legislative authority, which is the Serbian Parliament, by producing a sublegal act, to carry out what it already belongs to, but assumes another jurisdiction – jurisdiction of the judicial authority. Only a court can, based on an assessment, make decisions, and it is often estimated that the witness will be more trusted. That has to be explained in some way. What the Commission is going to estimate, nobody knows, because there is no sublegal act, and the law is regulated, even in Article 12, and it's pretty strict, that I don't know what else in this sublegal act can be found, which provisions will further increase the criteria whether anyone can do the job or not. The explanation is the same as the previous amendment, and it is about - that, in accordance with EU directives, similarity and reliability are resolved by sublegal acts of the Securities Commission. First, I do not believe that the EU has exactly such directives. Secondly, I don't think we would mind raising our standards, being stricter than the EU directives themselves, because it would prove that in some things we are more serious than they are, that we have gone beyond them. Perhaps tomorrow, based on our experiences, they will change their directives, because neither theirs is the Holy Scriptures, they change it and adapt it depending on their needs and what they want to accomplish. The only reason for not accepting is a directive that, frankly, I don't believe exists, and even if there is, as it is, I don't believe the EU would mind if we didn't solve things by sublaw, but by laws themselves. If we go back to Article 11, that the Commission should and should obtain information whether a person is reliable or not, we get another form we give it, we have given it legislative authority, judicial authority, we are now giving it part of the executive authority that is regulated by other laws – the Interior Ministry Act, the laws governing intelligence services, etc. So, all of this we give to the Commission which, in essence, only needs to implement three or four laws: the Charter of Values Act, investment funds, the takeover of stock companies and the Law by administrative procedure. I may have forgotten some law, but these are in principle laws that are important for the functioning of a state, but not so much that the Commission would play both legislative and judicial and executive authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27110	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27111	Thank you. Article 13(3), MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has proposed that item 3 be deleted. I would have to read this point, because when I read it, you'll see how pointless it is and how unnecessary it is in this bill of law, and it just completes this story that the MPs of the SRS have been trying to prove for the last hour, how unspoken and unserious this law is. The Commission may, if necessary, request the proposed members of the Board and the Director to come to the interview personally. It is problematic first that the Commission can assess what is necessary, for whom it is necessary and for which it is not. This is about a legal entity. This legal entity also has some rights and it is quite inappropriate for individual members of the administration to be heard in front of the Securities Commission. True, the government has given some solution to allow the Commission to collect additional information through direct talks with the proposed members, which concerns business reputation, professional knowledge and experience. This is an explanation of the Government, but it is more than obvious that everything necessary to the Charter Commission is of value that an assessment by a member of the administration can and can be made by written means, to further request information from each proposed member individually. That wouldn't be problematic and it's possible to do it in writing. We are only left to ask after this formulation, after such an attitude, what is the motive of this hearing, on the basis of which criteria would make the Securities Commission come to a better conclusion, more precisely the correct conclusion than the written possibility, unless some of the personal qualities of the board members are assessed, whether it is its beauty, eye color, age. These are all very problematic views in this law and have a significant impact on the equality and equality of all citizens of Serbia. Such provisions, such institutes or possibilities should not be put into legal projects, should primarily rely on the professional competence of management members and this is the only guarantee that the management company will work in a legal and legal manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27112	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27113	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have promised, so we are coming to the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who filed on behalf of the SRS. It refers to Article 13(3). It's a bill of law. I will read that view again and the government's argument: "When it decides to give consent under Article 1, the Commission may, if necessary, ask the proposed members of the board and the director to come personally to the interview." The government's explanation of why this amendment is rejected says: "In the process of granting consent to the selection of the proposed members of the management board and director of the management company, it is necessary that the Charter Commission adequately assess the proposed members of the board and directors. It is not about free – discretionary assessment of the Commission, but about the need to allow the Commission, because of the importance of management companies, to collect additional information through direct talks with the proposed members, which relate to business reputation, professional knowledge and experience." Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my previous presentation, I have stated that we have given the Commission the jurisdiction of the legislative authority, which means that they will produce sublegal acts that have the power of the law when they are in place. I said that the Commission can even do a job that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, this is an informative conversation on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Commission, as it says in this explanation, can also act as a judicial authority. To me, I have to say, for the period of the one-party system, it was only then that it was not the Commission but it was the Committee, so it was an assessment of whether anyone could perform a certain activity or not. And what were his criteria? I don't know, probably colleagues who are my age and those who are older than me know it, and these younger ones can read a little books, especially the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, so they'll see what the criteria mean. Now, the Commission is getting information and that – "on the way of direct conversation", so there is already interference in the work of the Ministry of the Interior and in the work of the judicial authorities, "with the proposed members, which relate to business reputation, professional knowledge and experience". You know what, if you write something like this, then you have to stand behind it, if you've already written and you haven't thought about it. In that direct conversation, will you put candidates on a lie detector, a polygraph or what's it called? He can tell you whatever he wants, he can bring in the paperwork – I worked at that company and abroad, she's in broker business. In which place, it doesn't matter, he brought a confirmation, he can tell you whatever he wants. He's been working for a while. Next, business reputation, so will any criminal or thief tell you he's a thief and a criminal? He won't. "Professive knowledge and experience." Well, professional knowledge and experience are not seen from conversations, but based on the attached documentation that the candidate gives. To me, it is all the same, that the proposer of this law might have imagined that, for example, in the Law on the Ministry and Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it would have been regulated that, before the National Assembly has agreed to elect the Prime Minister, or the Serbian Parliament, all candidates with the Prime Minister in column one by one, and at Slobodan Vučetic in the Constitutional Court to assess whether they are reliable and similar in the work of ministers, the Prime Minister, etc. If matter is so important to you and you're getting into little things, then let's also write it in the Government Act. Let's put that on, let's go to the Constitutional Court to prove that they are capable, reliable, that they are similar to doing the job of the Prime Minister and Minister in that government, just hard, counting on what the President of the Constitutional Court, like your Constitutional Court, is there anything that can be assessed and done under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, law, law, etc., because this government still bears the pain of the five-octobar revolution. You still have some personnel from the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, ruling this country. From a time when Serbia didn't even have a Constitutional Court, when you couldn't ask whether the Constitutional Charter was in accordance with the Federal or Republic Constitution, whether the Republic Assembly was exceeding its powers by giving its consent to the Constitutional Charter. Here, in a few days we have a referendum in Montenegro. I'm sure the mobster and criminal Milo Djukanovic will run away with his head after this referendum regardless of Montenegro, and I don't know how you're going to behave when this government falls, especially I don't know how these people of yours are going to behave in significant state functions. However, you are trying to extend their lifetime by naming people in various authorities of the state administration, or by proposing laws that the term of office will take five years. Only the President of the Republic takes five years. It is perfectly normal that the authorities of the administration have as much time as the authority that has put them or proposed them. The National Assembly has been mandated for four years, the government of the Republic of Serbia at best for four years, and that's the end of the story. With these and similar laws in a certain way you just want to, and when you fall from power, you still exercise power through certain authorities of the administration. Do not hope that you will succeed if the SRS wins 126 and more MPs, and as you rule, it is easier and easier for us to get more than 126 MPs in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27114	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of Nemanje Sarovic to Article 14 is extremely important, because it shows an important difference between the concept proposed by this law and what the SRS expects from this law. She, above all, expects the responsibility of all participants in the financial market and for this very reason I will read to you the amendment submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. We believe that point 3 in point 1 should be deleted, and that this problem should be determined by a special law. As regards point 3, the whole member refers to the withdrawal of consent for the selection of members of the management board of the management company. "The Commission withdraws consent for the selection of the director, or member of the management board of the management company, when it finds that," and in point 3) says, "has committed a serious breach of the provisions of this law, the rules of business, the security and risk management rules, or, in other ways, is more difficult to compromise the interests of members, i.e. shareholders of the investment fund managed by that management company". I think the problem of the responsibility of the investment adviser and the management of enterprises is of paramount importance that investment funds will be brought to life at all, and that there is very little space in the law, which shows the indetermination of this law against those provisions that are quite descriptive in this particular part, where we should have a much clearer regulation to encourage investment and prevent any abuses that often occur, especially in these undeveloped financial markets, as in our countries in the environment. In order to strengthen confidence in these investment funds, the SRS proposes that a special law, which should follow this investment fund law, regulate the obligations of law and sanction the behaviour of investment advisers, as well as the management of the investment fund management company, because, as I said, safe business is extremely important, aids the development of the financial market and promotes the trust of citizens, potential investors, as well as small investors, in the financial market. Unfortunately, there is often a situation in investment funds, when it comes to smaller funds where the operating costs and commissions that the management of certain funds grabs to themselves are greater than dividends, than the profits of that fund, that this is being falsified accountingly, shows in a different way and that even through the nominal value of investment units, there can often be a major robbery of those assets that the citizens invested in the investment funds themselves. That's why it's very important to keep these funds safe, and I think, as far as this legal project is concerned, it's very badly done. The most common problems arise in the mutual trading of investment funds, where they trade among themselves at prices that are more than officially on the financial market, on the stock market, and also the tariff rate on which they charge their services, the tariff fee, if sufficiently controlled by the Securities Commission, can significantly damage all investors in investment funds. Therefore, the reason for this law and how it exists. A serious problem for the existence of this law was made by a failure to propose such a law parallel to the Investment Funds Act. This whole legal project, and the way it is, can be significantly compromised by the behaviour of investment advisors and management.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27116	Anybody else answer for a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27117	Ladies and gentlemen, just as broad powers are given to the Commission when giving consent to the selection of directors and members of the management board, so Article 14 gives it broad terms and broad powers to withdraw that consent, so it says Article 14 - "The Commission withdraws consent to the selection of directors, i.e. a member of the management board of the management company when it finds that: 1) the decision is made on the basis of untrue and incorrect data; (Someone has falsified certain documentation, received consent on the basis of the falsely displayed situation, on this basis we have no objection to losing consent, or permission to work. 2) In the meantime, he stopped meeting the conditions laid down in Article 12 of this Law." (The conditions are that he is not legally convicted of crimes against labour, businesses, property, justice, public order, legal traffic, official duties, bribery and corruption, as well as criminal offences and commercial offences established by laws governing markets and securities of value, privatisation, insurance of banks and other financial organisations. That's quite enough. 3) implement a serious breach of the provisions of this law (and this is already stated in Articles 12 and 12), the rules of business morality, security business and risk management rules, or in other ways, more difficult to jeopardise the interests of members, i.e. shareholders of the investment fund managed by that company". Now, is there a law on business morality written somewhere? Is he anywhere? Is it published in any official messenger? Is there a regulation on business morality written? Is she in any official messenger? This looks like that decision made by local self-government based on a constant city conference on how local self-government officials should behave. That's bullshit. Basic morality has mechanisms to protect itself from and insist on this business morale. We'll be back later. "Conserve business"; and what kind of security business is that? He comes to work every day? He's not late for work? Don't leave work early? To work overtime? And "risk management rules"; and what rules? There's a risk in every business. In each contract, where both sides have a desire to make a profit, under certain conditions. And what are the conditions, to earn both sides. Under certain conditions, when market disturbances occur and cannot be expected and predicted, often neither party earns and are both at a loss, or earns one and the other, etc. What kind of business risk is that? Do you think it is a business risk if the media is constantly pressured against the National Bank of Serbia to carry out dinars, that it is necessary to comply with the price in the EU, that the value of the euro should be increased. The governor of the National Bank, the finance minister, goes public and says, "No, there's nothing there, there's not going to be a grant, it's not going to fall." On this basis, the man makes a decision and is aware of the business risk, based on a statement by officials. Get into business, for some smudge, as this government is ready to work, and especially when it comes to dinar jumping and falling, just a dinar falls and loses on the market. Will that director be sanctioned for that? I believe the Commission will say that you shouldn't have listened to the minister or the governor, you're a man who's an expert in that, and you have to predict that the dinar will fall. Is that the risk that a director and a member of the board should take on themselves? Furthermore, "or, in another way, it is more difficult to compromise the interests of members, i.e. shareholders of the investment fund managed by that management company". Now, how does that work out? It's a matter that gets rid of itself. The management company lives on commission and based on the management of certain investment funds, it lives on that basis. If it's insecure, unreliable, unprofessional, unskilled, do you really think someone will give them their money and trust them to manage it and make money? No one will. Will management company owners hold an incompetent director who will manage in a certain way and their money, or make a living for them? No, they'll go after him first through the mechanisms that exist and are regulated by the company law. You only give consent to the selection of directors, and their mutual decision by shareholders is whether the director will be appointed to the assembly or will be done by the board of directors, i.e. whether or not the assembly will resolve the director. The management company's owners will certainly intervene, because they are the most at stake. They lose their business reputation, lose their profits. That's how it's on the market. The competition market regulates who's good and who's not. Who's capable and who's not. When he's a business morale, but when he's not. They only regulate themselves. On every market, there's worth of paper on the market, there's a struggle for survival, there's a fight every day. It is certain that no one will suffer incompetent, morally inappropriate, who do not comply with the rules of business morality, security business and the rules of risk management. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, She won't even give him a chance, she won't make it to the Commission to assess it. They'll settle it in two or three minutes, and they don't need it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27118	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 17. The amendment was submitted by counterpart Vojislav Milajic. This amendment fully shows the indeterminateness of this law. The fact is that through Article 17, conditions are given and it is fully clarified what is meant and what is regulated by the rules of business of the management company. There are some nine conditions to be met, and a completely unnecessary position 2, to which my colleague Vojislav Milajic has submitted the amendment and which is that, after all this I have already said in advance, the closer content of the rules of business is governed by the Commission. Thus, in addition to all the rules set out in Article 17, the Securities Commission gives itself the right, possibly through some additional rules, to more fully regulate the rules of business. It is broken by some basic entrepreneurial logic, because the decision to get into any business, even if you form a management company, implies that you need to know the rules of business to get into that business risk. It is unnecessary to leave to the Commission discretionary rights which may significantly violate the rights of individual management companies and create inequality between these companies. Therefore, I propose to the MPs that in the voting day, in any case, they accept my colleague's amendment, because it is necessary that we get as clear as possible and as precise as possible the law on investment funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27120	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27121	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, part of Article 17 regulates the rules of conduct of the management company and what is being arranged. In paragraph 2, we return again, it is said, "The rules of business are being governed by the Commission closer". That part of the text, Item 2, MP Vojislav Milajic asked to be deleted. The government, like all other amendments to the SRS, and the previous ones, and those still under discussion, refuses. The explanation says: "The law prescribes basic criteria that should comply with the rules of business, as they draw closer to the content of those rules by the Commission. The rules of the management company represent the basic document on which future operations of management companies are based, and therefore their detailed content must be subject to the regulation of the sublaw of the Commission". If you really believe that this is the case, if it is the basic document, as you say, then it should still be regulated by law, because if these are the basic documents, and the laws are, the basic law is the Constitution and all the other laws come from that law, you can't expect that some basic document will come from a sublaw. There's a good reason for that, a sublegal act is not difficult to change, and it's basic matter that regulates something, at least that's how you prescribed it. Does this mean that the Securities Commission will, from case to case, from need to need, amend these legal acts, and even as you say, base documents based on the future operations of the management company. Let's go back to Article 17 and read what the rules of the management company are. "The operating rules of the management company shall be governed by: 1) the operations carried out by the management company, the conditions and the manner in which they are carried out; (This is what the substance that enters the internal regulation of the management company itself and can be defined in the founding act, in the internal rules, and may also be used by the Statute if it is necessary for someone, if the owners of the management company consider that they need the Statute. Will the Committee of Papers now determine what everything there must be written? I think it's still the inner rights of the owner himself. ) 2) mutual relations between the management company and the members, i.e. the shareholder of the investment fund; (This could already be called mixing and in the very way of making a deal, because here is one business. The management company manages an investment fund or other fund. Will the Commission enter into details of their mutual agreement that must be regulated by written agreement? I don't think the Commission should have that power to enter the written contracts of two participants in the securities market of values, funds, etc. Does this mean that the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, will every time enter into any debt-trust relationship when a cooperation agreement is concluded? Of course not. Leave that part of the job, it's a job of interest. Both sides certainly know how well to protect themselves, especially to protect their interests. ) the way and conditions under which board members and management employees can invest their resources in investment funds managed by a management company; (There is already a problem and this provision should not stand in law because conflict of interest is possible. Of course, management members and management employees know that which investment fund they manage stands and, of course, they know how much they can earn in this business outside their core activity, and their basic activity is to manage investment funds, not to invest in them. ) 4) administrative and accounting procedures; (We already have from the same promoter the Accounting and Audit Act. The Commission is already in the Accounting and Audit Act. It's regulated by that law. It's completely unclear what you want with it. It means that the Commission is closer to determining what administrative and accounting procedures are. This is regulated by the Accounting and Audit Act. Whether to rewrite the Law or to bring it closer to the Law on Accounting and Audit, whether this one is elected or remains old in force and suffers some changes. 5) control and security measures for the processing and storage of data". Believe that, when it comes to business banks, you have not yet determined what control and security measures are to protect money or securities from the values they have in their vault; (Since we now have electronic payments via the Internet, it is still not some sublegal act regulated, of course that banks protect themselves, and here management companies themselves will protect themselves better than the Commission. Be assured of that. It's one of the conditions of survival in the business they're dealing with. 6) internal control system’. What's that supposed to mean? The internal control is the control which the competent legal or natural person, who has the ownership or management part, orders employees when internal control is to be carried out. If this is already determined by the Securities Commission, as well as the conditions of how it is done, then it can no longer be called internal control, but external control, because it is imposed by a state body. Now it's only a matter of whether the state authority will trust that control of the worker and the person who is being controlled, or whether it's going to send someone in charge of its portfolio to carry out that control. In any case, whoever's doing that control, any competent inspection, employees of that legal entity, if ordered by a state authority, can no longer be internal control.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27122	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. We end the morning part of the debate. Resume work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27123	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will continue our work, just a moment to wait until they come down and the MPs who possibly want to participate in the work. I'm gonna have to ring the bell a little bit more, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, one more good day. We continue to work and at the very beginning to inform you, according to Article 85, paragraphs 1 and 4, today we will only work until the debate is concluded in the details of the item on the agenda, so the proposal for a law on investment funds, and extremely, as I announced yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, will continue on Monday, at 10.00 p.m., a debate on the details of the 9th point of the agenda – the Act on the takeover of shareholders, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In contrast, schedule your time and organize your participation in the work. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment refers to Article 21, and Article 21 regulates the keeping of business books and drawing up financial reports. This amendment sought to clarify the first position of this law, i.e. to remove from that first position the sublegal act prescribed by the Securities Commission. Even in the morning, we held a debate on the Commission's competence to give this law and, in the opinion of Serbian radicals, it is obvious that they are too large. Allow me, I would still like to read this attitude, because it will become more and more clear to you. It means, "The conduct of business books and the assembly of financial reports of the management and investment fund company is carried out in accordance with the law governing accounting and audit." This is quite all right, but in that position it is added "and to the sublegal acts of the Commission". Under point 10 of this session, we have the Accounting and Audit Act, and it was quite inappropriate that, when the proposer has already proposed one and the other law, and it is therefore inappropriate to include parallel legislation, not in the law, so I think of this one on accounting and audit, possibly the management obligation of the company in relation to accounting and the financial report. I therefore believe that this is how an unnecessary space was created to amend the Accounting and Audit Act and that it was quite enough for this matter to be regulated by the management company to insert into the Accounting and Audit Act, and we expect it to be on Monday or Tuesday. I want to say that we already have, unfortunately, one agency, that is, an institution that has completely derailed the control of the state authorities, which is the Privatisation Agency and, as a member of the Privatisation Committee, I am quite well addressed to all problems. The fact is that the Agency for Privatisation, as a state in the country, all citizens of Serbia are aware of the robbery, kidnapping, and any excessive authority, any institution, and this is about the Securities Committee, is causing discomfort, not only with me, but with most SRS MPs. I believe that the proposer had to define more seriously the position of the Securities Commission, but apparently the tycoon lobby that rules Serbia, thanks to the Privatisation Act and the already mentioned Agency, has earned huge money. Interest in the Securities Commission and how great it is, in the future, we will have the opportunity to identify the Securities Commission through this prism of the Privatisation Agency, because in the same way as how the Privatisation Agency has left many citizens without shares, jobs, robbing the capital of workers, small shareholders, will also be handled by the Securities Commission. The interest of the Securities Commission is evident in designing itself as an institution that will have huge discretionary rights and will depend on the ownership structure in all businesses across Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27125	Anyone else on the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27126	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 21(1), it is said: "The conduct of business books and the assembly of financial reports of the management and investment fund society is carried out in accordance with the law governing accounting and audit." So, one law is in the process, a debate is being held in principle. But in the draft law, there is this basic law on accounting and audit that is currently in effect, so that the question is asked what is the matter with this text in this amendment, which was submitted by MP Zoran Antic, and is required to delete "and sublegal acts of the Commission". In the very proposal for a law, it is already understood that this law will be adopted, the Securities Commission has its own powers under the Accounting and Audit Act, and it regulates certain material which is not regulated by the Accounting and Audit Act itself. It's more of the technical part about the plan, to bring our plan in line with international accounting standards and so on. That's why. However, in the proposal itself, the Commission does not affect the way the financial reports are calculated and drawn up, and that is the problem. So, will this sublaw act be in accordance with the law governing accounting and audit or not. If the Proposer had a desire for this area to be regulated in accordance with the Accounting and Audit Act, it would have been written in the bill itself. However, the obligation to make sublegislative acts of the Commission implies that it will be in application of the Accounting and Audit Act or that sublegal acts for the conduct of special books of the management company will be in accordance with the Accounting and Audit Act and that their way of accounting and drawing up financial reports will also be for the other legal persons who draw up the financial report. Even the National Bank only asks for financial reports in one part, which are for banks and insurance companies, because of the specific nature of their business, mostly because reserves, deposited funds, etc., incomes they make. However, this is about revenues that are exclusively from service activity, which is the provision of services, i.e. the management of investment funds. I do not see why management companies would have a special way of compiling accounting and financial reports, and why they would have to determine the Commission for Securities of Values, especially because we already have the applicable Accounting and Audit Act, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a law that is in the procedure, which the majority of the Assembly hopes will be adopted as it is proposed, along with those amendments that the legislator has adopted. The Commission should not be allowed the opportunity to do the work of the National Assembly and the members of the Commission to do the work of Members of Parliament. I believe that there is a will with the MPs to maintain their integrity and not to transfer their powers to the authorities of the state administration, especially in such areas as trading charters of value, because in this way both the Assembly and MPs are losing their integrity, in fact, this whole business that we do is slowly beginning to lose its meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27127	Since it sounded offensive, it certainly did not lose its meaning, and I must defend the dignity of the congregation. At the same time, I ask you all to defend your ability to briefly and efficiently, in the interest of all, those who propose amendments and those who explain them, explain the amendments, because I know that all the proposings are capable. In any case, it does not affect the agenda today, because we will certainly only work until the debate of this point is completed in particular. You know what the word of the President of the Assembly from this place means. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 21st and all other members showing up the word "exterior", the amendment was submitted by MP Mita Avramov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had one name in our legislation for a long time, and this began with the adoption of the Law on the Supreme State Auditory Institution, and this is the first time we have mentioned the word "exterior control", in this case "exterior review of financial reports", so that lawmakers, especially when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should pay attention. We can forgive that for some national MP or a group of MPs, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not. So, we use our own words in proper decline. The word "exterior" is a word of foreign origin, not for now in Serbian, such as many other words. It is not in the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we use foreign words, especially those that have not yet been able to find their place in our language. With this amendment, submitted by MP Mita Avramov, the word "exterior" has been asked to be replaced by the word "sex" in the corresponding fall in the word "sex", which translates it. There are no real reasons why the legislator did not accept this amendment, because in some subsequent legislation and other legislative activities, it would pay attention to this, even in those laws that have been passed with such foreign words and foreign expressions, there would be subsequent corrections, to place in the proper decline the right word of our origin, meaning from the Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27129	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27130	My colleague Igor Becic submitted an amendment to Article 25. The proposal for a law on investment funds and proposes to replace the word "print" in point 1), (2), (3) and (5) with the word "proposal" in point 3. Mr. Arsic spoke of this a moment ago. I believe that these terms used in the laws should be more often taken into account in the Serbian language and use terms that are more appropriate for this matter treated by Article 25, which is a permit for investment funds. I believe that the proposal made by my colleague Igor Becic is much better and that it is quite logical that instead of the word "print", we have the word "proposal", so I would ask you to take care of it in the day to vote. This is just the technical correction of this law and I think it would help make the law more clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27131	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. I'm sorry, certainly not with the same argument, since both words are Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27132	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 25. The bill requires that the word "print" be replaced by "proposal" in points 1), (2), (3) and (5). The government's explanation is this: "Amendment is not accepted. It's an unacceptable legal order. The term "nart" used in the bill is commonly used in the practice of making acts of legal persons and is quite adequate to this area". I agree in one piece. The act's in the works while it's being done by a legal person. If the act is delivered to the Commission, then it is no longer a draft, it is a proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the ministry, has a draft law. He can put him on public hearing, but he hasn't suggested it to anyone yet. The moment he enters the consent procedure, he becomes a proposal. I don't see any reason not to accept such an amendment, because the very explanation says: "It's an unacceptable legal order. The term "nact" used in the bill... ". So, the law is in the process, it's become a proposal. The draft prospectus of the founding act, the contract to be submitted to the Commission is no longer a draft, it is there to obtain consent. It's becoming a suggestion. So it's not common for an organ to give consent to a draft, why would it need consent at all, it's a draft, something that might suffer to change some procedures, meaning something that isn't finally. It excludes the will of the one doing the draft is whether it accepts any suggestions or not. But if you're looking for consent, and it's still written here -- "a request to issue an open, closed fund permit. The Commission shall adopt a solution as required by Article 1 within 30 days of the date of submission of the request." In addition to the application for authorisation referred to in Article 1, the draft draft shall not be subject to the draft authorisation, as it is not possible to issue a licence, but on the basis of the proposal. The proposal can be rejected or accepted, and the draft is something someone is doing in his office for himself, until he brings out and directs it to the official authority. The moment he ends up with the official organ, that's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27133	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr Antic. MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27134	"Article 26 is deleted," my colleague Tihomir Đuricic's proposal. These members are proposed to give the Securities Commission some discretionary rights to assess the objectives, the size of the investment funds and to say "and other essential characteristics of the investment fund". On the basis of this assessment, the Securities Commission gives itself the right to grant a permit, to assess the possibility of investment funds, and the previous Article 25 has fully defined what it takes to get a permit for investment funds. So this proposal by my colleague, to delete the 26th, is fully valid, because it lists some of the characteristics of the investment funds that are assessed by the Commission which are not standing and literally represents the issue of the Committee on Papers from values for the work of financial, or investment funds. In addition, the Securities Commission assesses the size of the management company’s share capital and estimates the possible sustainability of the investment fund management. So, it also requires portfolio managers who manage investment funds to have a license, that is to say for themselves, and that the interests of the members, i.e. shareholders of the investment fund, are adequately protected. In this third point, we can best see that the legislator himself in some way recognises the longevity of this law, that the Securities Commission protects the interests of the members of the investment fund. This is what we have been talking about all day, and we are trying to convince the representatives of the promoters, that they are too large and too broad of the Commission's values, when it has given itself the right to protect the interests of members, instead of doing so to clear and defined norms, on which there will be no abuse of these interests. In any case, I invite you to reconsider this article once more, dear colleagues. I think the amendment stands, and as it stands, and that these standards are given in Article 26. are completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27135	Thank you, Mr Antic. On the same amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27136	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 26 is, in a certain way, contrary to the law itself. Even if things get a little more tragic, it's the opposite of Article 25. Proposal for a law on investment funds. Article 26 – "The Commission shall issue a permit under Article 25 of this Act when, taking into account the proposed investment objectives, size and other essential characteristics of the investment fund, an evaluation... "Assess the word again." We were just talking about how the director of the management company could respond if he didn't properly assess the risk in which he could put a certain investment fund into some of his activities. So, the Commission, too, when it assesses, accepts part of that risk on itself. Very interesting. So, the Commission, as an authority of the administration, independent, who cares about the implementation of one law, cannot assess something that is not the subject of the law. The Commission may only determine whether the conditions laid down in Article 25 are The law also fulfilled on the basis of the fulfilment of the conditions to issue a work permit, i.e. to reject the request. Thus, Article 26. should only write – the Commission shall issue a licence under Article 25 of this Act when it finds that the conditions laid down in Article 25 have been met, not where it assesses that the level of capital of the management company allows the management of investment funds to be maintained. Based on what criteria? You cannot use criteria in EU countries or countries that have developed a value paper market for a long time. These estimates are unrealistic, our funds aren't so developed yet, even these state funds aren't so developed. Well, even the Health Services Fund must be complemented from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then you expect that the Commission, based on some of the experiences that are in force in the countries in the environment and countries that have and developed the securities market of value, will properly assess. Don't put the Commission in an awkward position. The Commission may, therefore, be given the opportunity to assess it, to make misjudges, and then someone has the right to ask the question of responsibility for the commission's work. Simply, their answer can be – we were unable to get the right assessment. The same is true, if someone suffers damage by refusing a permit, the Commission is guilty, and if he could not establish a fund, he could not make a certain income and he suffered damage. It's part of the risk of all those who want to participate in the securities market, to invest in funds, we need to be aware of that. The only thing the Commission's job is to protect the paper market from values and funds from abuse and speculation. It is the Commission's job to make sure that all participants have equal treatment before the law and on the market itself. This is how we put the Commission to be the one who's going to "blow and dress," but not on the basis of the law, but on their discretionary rights. Well, the Commission has no right to these discretionary powers. She takes care of law enforcement, makes sure that all participants are fully equal, that someone does not abuse the law, his authority or his position. That is what the Commission is concerned about. So, by meeting the conditions laid down in Article 25, the Commission's consent is obtained, not on the basis of their free estimates. Guys, where's that gonna take us? A request may be rejected by the Commission today, on the next day or after a few days, by a completely identical request. Then the party that also has the right to appeal, but you did not leave that right in the law, in the draft law of the administrative act adopted by the Commission, are final, possibly if a administrative dispute can be initiated before the competent court, but that already demotes potential shareholders to access such a fund at all. Therefore, I believe that this Article 26 should be deleted, and the committee responsible may, in no time, be recast to issue a licence by this amendment to the Commission when the provisions of Article 25 of this Act are laid down.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27137	Anyone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27138	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, another extremely important amendment, important from the position of the SRS, because the SRS believes that domestic investment funds should be used primarily to help the domestic economy, the domestic financial market. Article 29 provides broad investment opportunities that mean that these opportunities are extended beyond our country's borders and Mr Blazic's amendment suggest that these opportunities related to investment beyond our country's borders are eliminated under this law. In the first position, 18 investment opportunities are given – from debt charter from value, through action, to immovableity. We suggest that points 1 to 4, 8, 9 to 11, 13 to 15 be deleted from this text of the law. I'd read one or two so you could recognize what this is about. Point 4 suggests that money collected from Serbian citizens through investment funds can be invested in debt securities issued by EU Member States, OECD or neighbouring countries traded on an organised market in those countries. Or, for example, point 8) - "Chartes of values issued by legal persons based in EU Member States, OECD, or neighbouring countries traded in organised markets in those countries". It is obvious that today our economy and how it cubes with money, that it is also inequitable, to make up for the lack of its own credits, and this law on investment funds was intended to develop a financial market and naturally supply through the financial market, through primary trade, with extremely favourable, cheap resources and to enable us to get out of this misery and poverty that pressures us daily, pressures all citizens of Serbia, and it is quite illogical and inappropriate that the text of the Law provides an opportunity for domestic funds to invest beyond the borders of our country. And this is how we have a big problem with the liquidity of our market. That's pretty incomparable. That, through the new Charter Market Act of value, we allowed vanbersan trade, the owners of the actions themselves will be able to come out and offer their actions. So, there's going to be an increase in the offer of shares, and if in some way I offer capital, even through investment funds, where it mates, we're going to have an even more liquid market than we have today. Therefore, it is more than obvious that these points were not to be found in a member of the Law that we propose to delete. I would say that Serbia's economy is missing investments, foreign investments. I'm not going to say anything new unless I repeat that the professional public estimates that we need some 2-5 billion euros a year in investment in our economy to preserve that economic growth we had in these last two years, to avoid the debt crisis behind us. Therefore, it is obvious that such solutions that do not go in favour of our economy cannot be supported by the MPs of the SRS, and I am sure that all the MPs of the SRS will not vote, and I hope that by the day of voting, MPs from other parliamentary groups may be able to reconsider their views, because what has been given in this amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27139	Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27140	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it seems that the proposal's wish was, at least in reason, said that the adoption of these laws creates conditions for citizens who have free financial resources to invest, rather than today holding on to saving money at a certain business risk, but also with the possibility of earning more than they would get from the interest given to them by these same business banks. Let's just say it's, at least seemingly a nice wish. However, the money that our citizens already have should still be invested in the domestic infrastructure of the economy. I know the proposals' wishes, which is to meet EU directives, but our economy is still far from meeting their standards. The law, which regulates trade in securities of value, does not solve the problem of EU accession. Our economy, at least in some small part, has to be compatible with theirs. You can't do that without capital. Either our legal entities are going to be in charge of domestic banks under extremely unfavourable conditions, or they're going to be doing it with foreign banks that don't have their seats or the state is going to have to do it for them. The adoption of this amendment would ensure that both sides and those who have money and want to invest to earn something and the other side represented by the economy, which also has a chronic lack of crafts, funds for investment, for modernisation, for the acquisition of new production facilities to expand its performance. So that's what our domestic economy is missing. If this money were to be invested exclusively in the domestic economy, the possibility of a faster development of the economy would be far greater. Not only the possibility, but in the next few years it would produce certain results and not only would the economy as an economy have success. As production plants expand, production programs always create new jobs, where new labour is employed. The more workers he does, the greater the new value, the more the state benefits from it, the first in that section concerning health care funds, PIO, etc., the less the participation of the Republic of Serbia's budget will be. The budget itself will be better charged, where it leaves state space for its investments, because more workers will work and more people will receive the salary and spend to live. It doesn't take that capital of three or four billion euros, as estimated to have, to invest in foreign companies. They're already rich enough. Not a lot of people are going to benefit from it, and I'm thinking about citizens and these little shareholders. They will certainly benefit more if they invest in the domestic economy, so one of their family members finds a job in the same domestic economy and receives a salary. That is the only way, and at first we are not and we need to be aware, we cannot meet all the conditions that the EU puts before us. If we can't, then at least let's do it step by step and not do damage to our domestic economy, because only with it, provided it's developed so that it can deal with competition of foreign origin, at least on the domestic market, we can even fantasize about the EU. If we push our economy into the first plan, even just EU membership, it doesn't mean anything to us, we won't have factories and we won't have drives. We'll only have companies to exploit our natural mineral resources and who gets lucky to work here, and it won't be a large number of believe it, they'll be the only ones to provide the means to live, and even they won't be able to receive enormously large wages. Remember at Sartide, they say the salaries are regular, it's done a lot, but they're still small.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27141	Thank you. Anyone else report for the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Stefan Zankov, our colleague, has proposed an amendment to Article 30 and his goal was to implement as much risk dispersion as possible when it comes to investment funds. With this risk dispersion, we would come to a situation where investment funds operate significantly safer to avoid investment risks and that is what is in the nature of each investment fund, given the low level of education of our citizens and the fact that we have an extremely shallow market, that the offer of securities of value is extremely weak on our market, which places us in the commodity market, the financial market, the securities market. I think the amendment is quite all right, item 1 point 2) refers to investment in bank cash deposits. Stefan Zankov, our colleague, as I said, suggests that with 20% of the assets of the investment funds, he goes down to 10%. The proposal is that much more funds should be allocated to the economy, that the economy directly has the funds at its disposal and that it does not go through banks. Investment in bank cash deposits means, in any case, one inefficient use of monetary potential, because through mandatory reserves, it has a significant impact on the level of interest rates in banks. We already have a situation where the interest on the economy is unbearable. This has an important impact on the business of the economy and on the efficiency of the economy itself. As we all have opportunities, and above all the citizens of Serbia, let's see, it reflects on the full economy, and above all on the ever smaller and smaller number of jobs. In addition to these proposals, it should be stressed that investment funds are in themselves extremely strong players on the financial market, that over-influence of their capital to individual economic operators can be harmful. When these investment funds are withdrawn, and above all I think about foreign investment funds, we can expect serious problems for those companies, those business entities from which big capital is withdrawn. In view of this, I believe that the amendment is acceptable and that the amendment is aimed at helping Serbia's economy and making the banking sector less attractive.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27143	Thank you, Mr Antic. Anyone else report for the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that Dragan Zivkov submitted on behalf of the SRS, required that Article 40 of Section 3 be deleted. It's about advertising by comparing, because it's only allowed if it's concrete, objective, true and complete. The government's explanation for Article 40 says: "The advertising of the investment fund is precisely regulated and controlled, so that potential investors are provided with objective data on the fund. It is also of great importance that the fund advertising process be monitored by the Commission and to prevent possible manipulation and dissemination of false information." Is there anything that prevents the Commission from doing its job in attitude 3? It was asked to delete advertising by comparing. Do you know what that looks like? As if banks were comparing each other, which has more favourable conditions for lending or which the bank has more favourable conditions to arm money on savings with it. That's a comparison. What investment fund are you gonna make more money in? Is that objective? It hardly is, even the Commission that cares about it, hardly can hold on to objectivity, because it begins to have consequences that cannot be controlled, or you will have to close or you will have to close your eyes. Especially citizens have a bad experience with these kinds of advertising. So, when it goes into advertising, let it be and let it talk about its advantages. Of course, in a true and objective way, not to compare it with other funds, other ways of investment, because the team itself can be short-term and that they are right on some long track. The question is whether they are right and there are more ways to make provisions in this law despite the Commission's need to take care and let's assume that this job is going to work securely, there will be consequences that will get out of hand. You can see for yourself that today someone who has money can not only propagate one policy, but can even influence what culture looks like to us, only because he is able to pay for a particular TV show, billboard or buy the right to edit some shows. They control our culture, not only do they control it but they start to corrupt it, just because they have money. These gentlemen who have money, at least in one part, would be prevented from making more money in a very unencumbered and immoral way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27145	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem I was just talking about concerns the dispersion of the financial resources available to the investment fund, is Article 43, and this is the continuation of the SRS' pledge. The promoter considered this member unnecessary, given that we have already tabled a proposal for an amendment to go on a wider dispersion of capital available to investment funds. So here it may be problematic and the fact that this article allows the open fund to acquire more than 20% of the ownership participation, i.e. an action with the right to vote of one publisher, which is too high in the opinion of the SRS and for that reason, given that the eventual acceptance of the amendments made by the SRS to Article 29 would be unnecessary. Proposer, Mr. Milorad Krstin suggested that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27147	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27148	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in article 56, it is regulated how much the assets of an open fund are kept from its disbanding. The bill states that Castodi Banka has kept its accounts and documents open for at least five years since the disbursement of the Open Fund, in accordance with the regulations governing archive construction. The government, as a promoter, rejected this amendment with the explanation: "The proposed deadline for keeping the accounts and documentation of the open fund is sufficient in view of the tasks performed by Castodi Banka". I suppose the Ministry of Finance took part in this bill, as well as in the drafting of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration say that business documentation has been kept for at least ten years. That's what the ministry ordered for legal persons. So the company that operates has to keep its documentation for at least 10 years. Why can't such conditions apply to funds? And that's where you get a certain profit, and that's where you pay the tax. However, the bank that runs the fund is not obliged to keep that documentation. On what basis, if a later period finds that there has been an irregularity in the business of the fund, in the accounting of taxes, etc., and we have a law that regulates it, the tax authority will exercise control, or where? In the historical archives? The promoter, or government, should at least be careful that those legislative proposals they make themselves, make sure they are compatible with each other. In Article 56, we have provisions on how much documentation must be kept. The Law on Investment Funds and the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration states how much documentation must be kept. What law will be in place? When it comes to the Securities Commission, it will likely be the Investment Funds Act, and when it comes to the Tax Police, it will be the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Couldn't all of this have been in accordance with one law or two laws to be completely compatible? To say that there was a mistake in writing the law, it happens. Whoever doesn't do this doesn't sin, but if the MPs already point you to where you're wrong, then why are you stubbornly sticking to your solution, even though you see you're wrong. Or perhaps the answer should be sought in that the applicant of this amendment is the MP of the SRS, and for these reasons this amendment has been rejected. Given the experience that we have often submitted amendments to your basic laws, that you have rejected these amendments, and then after a few months we have had amendments and additions to those laws, where amendments of the MPs of the SRS were very much contained, with the difference that they were amendments and amendments to the law and that the proposing was the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that, when we are making amendments and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, we will find in these amendments and additions and this amendment, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS by MP Miljko Cetrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27149	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Lazar Cavic submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27150	Article 64. The Investment Funds Act deals with the Supervisory Board of the closed investment fund and the supervisory board's problems at all. The proposal is to replace the word "two-thirds" with the word "super-half". The big problem with the functioning of investment funds, looking at countries in the environment and their investment funds, is that the Supervisory Board is identifying itself with management or protecting their interests without taking due account of investor interests. That was the basic motive for proposing this amendment. This amendment would allow a meeting of shareholders to be significantly more easily convened by an over-half, instead of a two-thirds majority, which would also significantly affect better control of the work of investment funds. We believe that this way, with this amendment, proposed by my colleague, we can at least fix the possibility of controlling investment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27151	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27152	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this article 68th and the next amendment to article 69 is extremely important when it comes to the Investment Funds Act. So, it's about breaking the contract between...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27153	I'm sorry, please, I don't mind you talking about both one and the other at the same time for the importance, if I understand you correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27154	It's about breaking up a contract between a closed fund and a management company. So, there is a situation that the closed fund is simply not satisfied with the services provided by the management company, as well as the way the fund has the funds and requires a contractual termination of the contract. In the event of a contractual termination of the contract, paragraph 2 states: "The contractual termination of the contract referred to in Article 1 shall produce a legal fact as from the date on which the Commission approves the management contract with the new management company". The question arises, believing that it still takes a certain period of time for the Commission to approve a new contract, what happens to the fund during that time period? The law itself provides that business, or those urgent jobs, continues to be run by the old management company. In the amendment I submitted, I asked for Article 2 of the bill to be deleted. "In the case referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the castodi bank with which the company has concluded a contract, until the conclusion of a contract with the new management company and after obtaining consent from the Commission, and for the longest three months, it only carries out urgent tasks relating to the management of the closed investment fund." I add the new attitude 3, which reads: "Under the immediate affairs of this member, the tasks that need to be done are to be done in order not to cause harm." So, a bank that also manages in a certain way the fund's assets, in any case, is both human and organised and technically equipped to be able to carry out these urgent tasks. The Government's explanation says that the amendment is not accepted, as the draft law provides for continuity in the management of the fund, which clearly specifies the Commission's competences in this process, which enables the preservation of the fund's assets. "The provisions provided for in the amendment are too high for the reason that the contractual termination of the management and closed fund contract produces legal fact only after the approval of the management contract with the new company by the Commission." That's the problem. Which fund will change the management company, if it meets its requirements and does the job as expected, terminates the contract when it is not satisfied. You know the people's team that wins doesn't change. So, here comes the fact that the fund itself is not satisfied with its resources, is not satisfied with the way in which the management company manages and asks for a contract to be terminated. Now we have a situation that the management company can because it loses its job, and it is quite certain that another society will be sought, that a contract will be concluded with it, and what it is continues to do is run that fund. Will he be in his best interests at the time that this fund is leading in a better way than it has been so far? No, they'll probably lead him the worse way. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment prevents abuse by the management company, simply because there has been a contractual termination of the contract, and that period which represents a vacuum to find a new management company and the new consent of the Commission, i.e. to approve a contract concluded between the management company and the Investment Fund. So, during that period, the possible abuse of an old management company lost its trust fund management contract was prevented. I'm quite surprised that he insists on some continuity here. If he'd been good for the fund, there wouldn't have been an end to the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27155	National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 69th amendment. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27156	We have reached the end of this law and have reached the supervisory department and the Commission's competence, which is treated through Article 80. There have already been a lot of words on what the Commission's rights are, that opportunities have been left for the Commission to regulate certain problems or individual institutes in the area of investment funds by some sublaws. It was quite understandable that, through supervision, as the Commission's competences, it was possible in some way to control even the work of the Securities Commission. This is what the SRS, and before it was done by MP Bora Kutic, who proposed Amendment 2 – "In the exercise of his competence, the Commission is making decisions that are final", amended to read as follows: "against the Commission's solution can be made within eight days of the day of the adoption of the solution to the Ministry of Finance Affairs". I think it's quite logical that, if the Commission's discretionary values are of this kind, and they're too large, not only in the Securities Markets Act, but obviously in the Investment Funds Act, we'll also have opportunities to see through the takeover law that we have an institution that goes beyond what has been seen in our practice so far. It was quite logical that the supervision of the Securities Commission had at least the Ministry of Finance. That's what's been proposed by this amendment. I believe that the amendment is fully acceptable, in order to prevent some administrative disputes that could be initiated on the basis of individual solutions made by the Securities Commission and to speed up the resolution of any problems that might arise under the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27157	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27158	Dear People's MPs, my esteemed colleague Petar Jojic has submitted an amendment to Article 85. The proposal for a law on investment funds, by proposing that Article 85 be deleted. The proposed member shall provide for the punishment of a person who has declared privileged information and whose other person purchases securities of value or otherwise has securities of value. So he'll be fined three months to three years. We, the Serbian radicals, believe it is necessary to implement the unification of the Criminal Code. This pay phone has repeatedly mentioned that all crimes should be done and that they should stand in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. We believe, if it is necessary to sit and amend the law every day, but these crimes should stand in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Since the next amendment applies to punishment, Mr. President, I would take advantage of the possibility... (President: no one mind? Please continue the amendment to Article 86.) So on behalf of the SRS, I submitted an amendment to the Investment Funds Act, by proposing to be a member of 86. The bill is deleted. The proposed member foresees the criminal responsibility of a project publisher who intends to deceive investors by publishing false data, where a sentence of up to three years is foreseen. It differs from this previous one only in the sense that there is no imagination in the previous one, and here it takes a direct imagination, as it stands here, means intent, as the lawyers would say, consciousness in the will to commit a crime. So it's the same explanation. We believe that it is necessary to perform the unification of criminal acts, that they should only stand in the Code of Criminal Procedure, that it should be amended, if necessary and daily, which would achieve legal certainty, and ultimately achieve the agreement of the provisions of individual laws with the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the most important system laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27159	So this was the first explanation of the amendment to Article 85, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Is there anything else about that amendment? No, I don't. ) Then, with agreement, the amendment to Article 86, which was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment, but it is an opportunity for this amendment to point to the indifference of the Government and the Proposer. If we've waited two years for the Charter Market Act of Values, and then based on this law that we have to pass for another six months to implement it, it's quite incorrect to leave such a deadline to the Proposer to implement this law in practice. It's the same thing with the Investment Funds Act. It was supposed to be in the assembly procedure and applied at the same time as the Privatisation Act, which means in 2002. So far, the area has not been settled, how much time has passed, how many lost shares, how much small shareholders' money, how much small shareholders' capital has been disbursed, so that we can get into a situation where this investment fund law is passed and renamed within six months of entry into force. So it takes another six months for this law to be implemented in practice. As far as we're concerned, it's quite a 60-day deadline. With this amendment, we wanted to speed up the government's work and to highlight this problem, because it seems to us that it's really been too long and it's perfectly normal that the government has to work much faster, because the situation in the country and how difficult it is, especially when it comes to the area of the financial sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-19-0.u27161	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. I congratulate you all on your responsibilities. Since we have completed the examination of the bill's proposal in particular and since I find that the proposing representatives do not want to give the final word, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The ninth item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies will be discussed in particular, as we said Monday at 10.00 hours. Thank you all for your responsibility. Good-bye and good-bye.
