ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26902	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Dusan Prorokovic, Vojkan Tomic, Dejan Stojiljković, Miroslav Petkovic, Miroslav Jankovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC AUTHORITIES FOR THE Efficient PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT OF INTELECTUAL ACTIVITIES (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović, Meho Omerović, Mileta Poskurica, Zoran Mašić, Milovan Radovanović, Nemanja Sarović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zoran Krasić, Branislav Rankić, Milan Stevović, Vjerica Radeta, Paja Momčov, Sreto Perić, as well as the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milan Parivodic, the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia has a single manner in which it is indeed an exception. These others may be wrong, they don't have to, but he has such a custom, it has also shown now that there is no report by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. The fact that you, Mr. Minister, are always orni and in the mood to come out after every MP and comment on our objection, or the SRS amendment, is fine. Sometimes you go into some broader political form, again it's your right, you're a minister in the government, but it's really not right that we don't have a written report from the government of the Republic of Serbia with an explanation why the amendments are not accepted. It's very important to us that before you go out there, we would like to read what the government has said to us and what it disagrees with in our amendment. We've submitted a number of amendments to this bill to improve its quality and we don't see any reason why we have to take notes now or listen to what you have to say. There may be a situation where, in the middle of the debate, you are called urgently to go to the government, and this young gentleman next to you cannot go out for a pay phone and tell us why this amendment and that amendment are not accepted. It's not good and it's not right. This isn't the law that was written yesterday or the day before yesterday, our amendments, so you didn't have time. We only got the opinion of the Legislative Committee, which works as it does, usually on the edge of the quorum, but why did you have a problem with giving us an answer on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to submit amendments, to have it as a document and to have it in one, two sentences or more why amendments are not accepted? You were supposed to wait and postpone the discussion of the details until we received a written report from the government. However, according to our rules of procedure, we can also talk in this way, but so quickly and through many laws that went back six years, and during the DoS-Mali government, the chairman of justice is always able to do so by the Rules of Procedure, we go without a report from the Government. We need this official document, and it's our turn to answer why we don't have it, what your services have done, your ministry, who's had a hard time writing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26904	At a meeting of the Committee on Finance, held yesterday, the minister declared each amendment individually. If the minister has any further explanations... There isn't. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, we started from the beginning when we talked about this law and in principle, actually talking about how much there is no particularly strong legal prerogatives, to try to make this reading better, to fix, mainly from the point of view of giving the right intellectual property a special place and special meaning. It is difficult to take the impression from the member concerned of the amendment, as referred to in Article 2(1), where the integrated proposal stands – the provisions of this law apply to the production, transport, use and maintenance of goods and the provision of services. So it's pretty banal to the economic-financial sphere, to the fact that anything costs, whether it's financially and materially damaged and vulgarly determined that it's actually about goods, that everything is simply being subdued under goods. The de facto and the book itself, the authorial work of that kind or related rights that are derived from the current law of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro may in some way be subject to this, but there is no reason why we have not intervened in the article, except one sentence that determines the member and his first position – the use of copyright in the field of professional publications. It was somehow the least possible intervention, yet in a certain way, to make it known to a large number of people who are engaged in very difficult opportunities of scientific work, to issue professional publications available to the public in this or that variant and who are also available to the hands of plagiarists such as what our MPs will talk about later. It's about Professor Lilic, who took off really, virtually did a large part of the text of scientists who had already been deceased, who was unable to oppose it, etc. This law does not touch any such abuses or structures, does not give opportunity to anyone who sees such an irregularity, except that he is the author or bearer of rights and then goes through the inspector to seek protection. We tried, as far as possible in this law structure, to correct it by introducing some other institutions, some other ministries, some other bodies, as it stands in the bill, by giving them the authority to intervene, but of course we were not in a position, nor is it possible, that the concept of the law should change, that directly a citizen, a man who sees such an irregularity, without being a holder of copyright, can intervene. That is why we do not think it is a waste to find such a change in the attitude of Article 2 and thus to obtain one quality of this law and the possibility of intellectual law, when it comes to books, textbooks, professional literature of another kind, into which a large amount of intellectual work and effort is invested, usually unrewarded, is protected from any plagiarism. plagiarism, not only abuses against the rules in which the original quote, original photography, information, must appear, sometimes with the author's approval, because sometimes you can't take any pictures from the textbook, as it is regulated in the West, if you don't have the author's approval and consent, book editor, group of authors, etc. It's especially important when a group of authors is the bearer of a piece of work, some publications; then there you have often shared problems, because someone would intervene, someone wouldn't. The possibility of controlling abuse or unauthorized use in creating another professional work exists if it is about doctorates, about writing books, through so-called "doctors". reviews and mentoring work. Of course, the question is whether a mentor does his job all the time, but you can't regulate it by law, you can't send an inspector a mentor to check it out. We are fully aware that such a recommendation would not lead anywhere, to check whether it is possible to find such theft, but during the time of public awareness, public debate, someone might notice plagiarism, to do something, but if you say goods, it would be difficult to say that a master's degree, a doctorate of goods, is a professional publication, and then a defect and a feller was found in the goods, and then it could be intervened by an inspector. So one more subtle control is possible and then all of this needs to be introduced into the law, so as an unequivocal area where jurisdiction can be drawn later. That's why we think it's an opportunity, perhaps the minister himself, even though we don't know what the government's position is, finally, the minister represents, to give his opinion, to plead. We don't think we'd hurt the meaning and essence of this law with that one sentence of a few words, which makes a difference to all of this and determines closer and complements it. Still, it works more for the trade jurisdiction, the trade inspection, as you gave it, because it's the authorities that will be here. This is a little different, one more subtle control, where we'll see later the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Education, and where luck is that they once had any jurisdiction, because we wouldn't be meeting the plagiarists we met with. Of course, no one's ever done anything. There's a possibility of disputing doctoral thesis, but it mostly happens when revolutionary coups, on October 5th you tried it, and I guess there's also you from the rest of that DOS, you know how it went around universities, how you asked for audits of scientific professional titles, how many people lost their positions, how later the papers were evaluated by some other grades. It was a time we remember and we advocate it never happens again. The Serbian Radical Party would never question what anyone wrote in a period of five or ten years, when it won power. Then we saw a very clear plagiarism, about which other messengers would speak. You'll see that nothing could have changed, there was practically stolen one piece, prescribed, put in front of it, as if the man who wrote the author of what was said. It is a difficult mechanism of protection, these may be initial steps until this law is written as a law which is the original law of the Republic of Serbia and which is not a law that will allow the application of some three laws of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, so as some law on the application of the law, some kind of instruction professionally, because inspectors working on the ground will surely have these three laws of the state. What's only going to happen to the community, what are the positions of these laws, if it could wait, it'll all be known, and then one law is passed, so our copyright law, only then we need to pass it, and then we'll see what we can do, because criminal norms are being drawn up under this law, and in fact, it's all regulated by the law that we take as the basis for adopting this. So I want to bring an end to my discussion and ask the minister to simply accept our amendment. He will not later withdraw anything specific in the second part of the amendment that would question the spirit of the law, and that would then not be the will of those who eventually ordered such a law. It was mostly interventions that shouldn't, even if they were to some extent, so that they were mentioned, more through the criminal provisions of Article 38, and there's more to it... In Article 38, if you look at copyrights, as if they wrote: disks, music CDs, theater, play, film, and then wake up in the minds of an ordinary man and say something – well, it's to protect musicians, to protect American production, other co-productions that work on these fields, to create a sense of legal certainty for someone on the side, and even for some more influential lobbyists from our market. Of course, you can see why it's more influential, where it can get away with it, and we talked in a general discussion when we talked in the principle debate about how an inspector can be called on to make sure that there really is a violation in terms of the abuse of other people's intellectual rights. The introduction of this piece, even if it were something parallel and something already seen, would not make it difficult for the legal or the language position of this law, and we think it would be useful and would draw attention to those who continue to do so, to abuse other people's scientific and professional achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26906	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26907	To be effective: I reject the first amendment to Article 2(1), because it puts one aspect of copyright above all, and that is why it is systemically bad, and that is why I reject it. Amendment 2 concerning your amendment, I would be effective, so I accept it. Okay, it's okay, if you want to talk, I accept the amendment, it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26908	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26909	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the resolute minister is Mr. Parivodić and professor of Law School, and because he is a doctor of science and professor (he will choose him if the government doesn't fall) and since it is a law on protection and copyright, I expected, since we had a law on copyright protection, from the minister to immediately raise the question of responsibility of the greatest plagiar who ever appeared. I brought two books that Professor Vojislav Seselj published in 2000. One is called "Universary Professor Stevan Lilić as a dirty and dirty plagiarist", and the other is called "Stevan Lilić as an intellectual confidant of the current bulldozer revolution". Perhaps the title of this second book is the reason why the dirty plagiarizer Stevan Liliæ is not so far punished for the greatest theft. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all thefts are thefts, but stealing intellectual property is the worst form of theft and theft, especially when it comes to stealing intellectual property from a man who died a long time ago and cannot defend himself. Stevan Lilić is from a book called "Administrative Law" – which is the work of Professor Laza M. Kostic, a man who died in extreme misery in the refugee country thanks to this country from an earlier period and left a huge opus – stole and prescribed everything, there are some changes, you will see when I read something. He turned that book "Administrative Law" into "Governmental Law", not because he came up with it, but because the subject itself was called after that. To use this time to read you just one piece and see how far the intellectual range of this filthy thief, stevan lilic, is. Laza M. Kostic in "Administrative Law" says so, and I'm just going to read one piece to you... Otherwise, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm going to read all these parts, and I'm going to end up using every moment when it stays to defend the amendments of one of our MPs, to convince you that this one should have been locked up a long time ago. As Laza M. Kostic says, "As far as assessing the legality of administrative acts is concerned, any attempt to entrust that function to senior administrative authorities was without success." Stevan Lilić, as the "intellectual trust of the Bulldozer of Revolution", puts the word "but" in this sentence, and says this: "However, as regards the assessment of the legality of administrative acts, any attempt to trust that function to the senior administrative authorities remained without success". But his science. Laza Kostic goes on to say, "The truth is that if the administrative body is higher, an increasing number has a legal education official, those lawyers should be more solid and more secure someone they are lower." Stevan Lilić, after missing his creative and scientific inspiration, continues to prescribe from word to word, from point to point, and says, "The truth is that if the administrative body is taller, there is a growing number of officials with legal education, but they can never stay on the clean ground of law," said Stevan Lilic and remained alive. We had the opportunity to have him as our MP. Mr. Minister, I'm surprised to see you handing over these laws from the West, so why don't you hire Stevan Lilić to hand over everything to you? It's just that a man knows how to do a job. Although, maybe he needs to translate, so you need to find a translator for him. Proved master, two books prove which one is "intellectual." Furthermore, says Professor Laza Kostic: "The danger is great that legal consideration does not sacrifice partially or fully to political considerations," and then this "intellectual" says, "It is a great danger (it is not: the danger is great) that legal considerations do not sacrifice partially" etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that Minister Parivodić will consult Minister Stojkovic and Minister Jocic on this day and that tomorrow, if we do not, then through the means of public information, that the trio will inform us that the "intellectual size" has received a single room in the building in Bačvanska, so that he will not be disturbed until his inspiration is passed on to paper. Minister, it is a colleague of yours, but since Mr Krasic said they have not chosen you yet, there is your chance, drive Lilić away and there will be a free place for you to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26910	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. At the meeting of the Committee, a representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mileta Poscurica, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26911	Mr. Minister, I wondered if I should go out because you said publicly that you would accept that amendment. That's the second radical amendment in a row. If you don't accept it, we'll try to convince you that you need to accept it. In the description of the authority that controls the abuse or effective protection of intellectual property rights, where you've counted several ministries and the Broadcasting Agency, and I think the most important thing here is whether someone else's broadcasting or re-emissioning, and we've seen how effective it is, the whole of Serbia is shaking from the efficiency of that institution, we wanted to introduce two other ministries that we think have the same right as the Ministry of Health, at the expected efficiency and frequency of their activities, or maybe the theoretical need for them to intervene over what we wanted to point out, to give a particular aspect of the protection of intellectual property. Here, I've been waiting for you to finish the conversation, Mr. Minister. I heard, the public is not, the minister is mostly timed whether he will accept or not at the value of the amendment, but by whether or not we are attacking him or not. No one attacked him. There's a normal conversation here. The amendments don't spoil the meaning of the law, they don't spoil anything. But if the government is based on the amendments depending on whether or not someone is lurking, watching out, tattooing or attacking, it is also time for the public to hear it. Everyone heard, except that the microphones were one-way, so the public couldn't hear, and I'm honestly convincing, because the witness is, at least this part of the hall that heard what you said. We don't mind, don't accept anything, we'll change those laws when we come to power, so it'll really look like the law, not the regulation, and you'll use spite. What's the point? The point is to introduce two ministries. It would make sense that textbook, professional literature and other sensitive parts of intellectual property can, on such occasions, have their inspection bodies carefully followed and intervene. We don't expect that just a trade inspection or any other inspection, when he sees someone's textbook being sold on the street or near the university, in an alley, as an unbelief, a bad or a bad copy, acting as a slave, could confiscate goods. We want to give more meaning to that part of intellectual property than to the simple fact that it's about goods and that it's a quantity of 50-60 plagiarized Brownvald or this one or that. We think it's a more sensitive segment, where people with the experience of this kind, where, even if the indirect persuasion of users and professional literature, so the responsible students, those who respect other people's rights, could learn from their professors and normal mentors to respect other people's rights and experiences, to say, professors, that's what someone took off, you have it, so you see somehow, make the inspector, the cobajagi by official duty, come. We allow you to imagine such a thing under the bill. When I can't intervene the person who sees it, but the inspector has to do it for me, and it's not my doing, obviously the work of a colleague has been stolen, then there's the end of the story. Then how do you motivate an inspector to get off the chair and come, even if he does trade; he won't, he'll chase something else. We wanted to do it, and the other two ministries... (Milan Parivodić, from the post: I accept the amendment. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26912	Minister, come out for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26913	So, I accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 6 which gives jurisdiction to the Ministry of Education and Sports, through an educational inspection, and to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, through inspection. I accept that. However, since the Finance Committee has also given jurisdiction to one other amendment financial inspection and tax police, then only the numbering will change, to include both financial police and tax inspectors, as a special item, in addition to this fourth and fifth ones. It just needs editorial to fit in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26914	This is possible by technical regulation, as two amendments are accepted which are not contrary. The only problem is the numbering. Then when the technical order is passed, it'll just record itself. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment that the minister has accepted? No, I don't. ) National MP Sreto Peric submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 8a be added after Article 8. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the Minister says he accepts this amendment that I have submitted, my amendment reads that, after Article 8, Article 8a is added, because he is in connection with the previously accepted amendment, I just want to say a few words. The Serbian Radical Party submitted a total of 13 amendments to the law and was the real nebuloza yesterday by one MP when he said the SRS submitted amendments requiring the erasure of some members, contesting the scope of the law and saying it was too small and too large. It's just that it's absolutely not true. Here, you have seen that the minister, although he said at one point that the way the amendments are explained depends on whether he accepts it or not, accepted this previous amendment, that is, the amendment to Article 6 where MP Paja Momchilov suggests that four bodies (three ministries and the Republic Broadcast Agency) will be added to the responsibility for two other ministries, i.e. the inspection bodies of that ministry, so I assume that he will accept the amendment to Article 8a and Article 9a as well. How much of the parliamentary majority supporting the government is accompanied by the work of the Assembly, i.e. legislative proposals and amendments, could be seen when Mrs Verica Radeta, an MP of the SRS yesterday, had in her hand the opinion of the Government of Serbia on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, said there was no and no one in the order of MPs who supported this government had said that there was. She just wanted to check with what attention MPs of the congregation are following what's going on here. Of the 13 amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, only one amendment reads to be deleted, and this is what Ms. Natasa Jovanovic tabled an amendment to Article 22 and, of course, she will comment on when it comes to the agenda. This article is being speeded up by plagiarism and in order to avoid it, it has proposed that the member be deleted. As far as all the other amendments are concerned, there is an intention to correct the text of this law. We did not dispute when the minister in the analysis of the effects of this law said that the introduction of new inspection bodies would cause ex post costs, a new training for inspection bodies to control this area. There's the minister, I must say, he was right. But we suggested, that this be protected more effectively, that it be given to the Ministry of Education and Sports, as well as to the Ministry of Science and Technology that their inspections can control this part. The Serbian Radical Party intends, above all, to protect the authors, i.e. the rights of the author and to protect the state of Serbia, i.e. through the authorities to prevent an outflow of funds collected on the basis of taxes and other incomes for the Republic of Serbia. I suppose the minister has accepted this amendment, because it makes no sense to accept the amendment to Article 6, where the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Sports is justified, and that this, when we only add what competences are, is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26916	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26917	So I accepted the 8th. Now, we have two competitive 9as, which are not the opposite, so this 9a from the Finance Committee, we accept naturally, and this amendment to the SRS, we accept the same thing as 9b. That's the whole change in numeration, one is 9a, the other is 9b and we accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26918	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The minister has pleaded to accept that amendment. Does anyone want a word? An amendment has been accepted, would you like an additional explanation? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26919	Stevan Liliæ, the head of the Faculty of Law, did not just prescribe Professor Lazu M. Kostic. Professor Stevan Lilić also prescribed Professor Milkov, and now you see how much creative inspiration he has approached: let's say, for example, Professor Milkov's side of the 39th textbook – it is parliamentaryism in which the government has the advantage, the administrative and executive powers are united in a unique execution. Lilic has changed, however, not to 39, but to the 174th side of his book, it says so – it is parliamentaryism in which the government, administrative and executive authorities are united in a single execution. If you've memorized the sentence I just read and this sentence, the dots agree. He says Professor Milkov further – the powers of the federal government, unlike the federal assembly, are largely extended to the former state. The federal government educates and abolishes federal ministries and other federal authorities and organisations. It also determines their organization and the workaround. E, and then the inspired Lilic says this - unlike the federal assembly (that is, the scientific contribution of Stevan Lilić), the powers of the federal government compared to the federal administration have been significantly expanded. This is how the federal government, among other things, educates and abolishs the federal ministries and other federal authorities and organizations and determines their (here it has been – it determines, and here it is - and determines) organisation and work. Stevan Lilić, the intellectual gromada of the Revav school, besides the Faculty of Law he works at (you know, science doctors have the right to share their working hours in three, so that in three institutions or three companies they work on), he also works in the "yellow company". Thief, though, but his company didn't corrupt him, ladies and gentlemen, I mean that yellow thief company, he's already broken down into that company. He came from another organization called the Little Civil League or I don't know what it was like. Anyway, let's go back to Professor Lazo M. Kostic and his "Administrative Right" written between the two wars and prescribed as soon as Stevan Liliæ stepped down, learned 30 letters and grabbed the plaives. Professor Kostic says – in Germany, the first half of the last century, there was a distinction between clean administrative cases (clean administrative items are under quotes) and administrative and legal cases (under quotes). Stevan Lilić, who believes that science has advanced and that some things should change in this, says this: in Germany, even in the first half of the last century, there was a difference between, so he took down quotes, clean administrative cases, and, he took down quotes, administrative and legal cases. There's a lot of scientific trouble here until he's achieved this "professor" Lilic. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the intellectual elite is hard to come by; it's cream, it's the top, it's all that knowledge concentrated from who the nation needs, the state to draw energy, to live, to grow and make progress. Very hard to push, but you see, Stevan Liliæ has passed. If the science doctor, God forbid, someone decided to shoot, stevan lilic would die for nothing. He goes on to say, "Professor." Lazo Kostic – only these last ones could be the subject of legal consideration of more instance, and this one says – are only the others, as so-called. the disputed administrative (so-called He entered into science, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so-called Dispute administrative items, i.e. (yes, i.e. having) as administrative contingent objects could be an object (and contentiously introduced) legal examination of a more administrative instance. Professor Lazo Kostic spoke instead of an instance, because between the two wars it was said so. This is where Stevan Liliæ, I guess in a hurry, when he came across a scientific inspiration, crossed over, and he wrote a word that came from ′45. Let's put a little bit of a different word and write it down. He says so - disputed administrative items, Professor. Kostic says -- for the first time, they surrender to the trial of authorities outside the active administration in Baden in 1863. Lazo Kostic adds science to his contribution, so he says – controversial administrative objects. It is not these administrative cases that Lazo M. Kostic spoke of, but says – the disputed administrative cases are first handed over to the trial of authorities outside the active administration in Baden in 1863. Ladies and gentlemen, Professor Vojislav Seselj is a convicted fighter against thieves who are doing the intellectual part of the nation. In Sarajevo, he revealed, revealed a certain Miloš who literally prescribed master's work. That's why he had big problems, because he directly opposed Pozderac, Hamdi, Hakija, Branko Mikulic, etc. In Belgrade, he exposed an intellectual thief named Stevan Lilic, and the consequence is that he was expelled from the Faculty of Law. Is there any similarity between those who were with Pozderc and Mikulić and those who were with Djindjic, Kostunica, and I don't know who to list all 19 of them. Since I still have a little time to show your court some more pearls of intellectual inspiration from the moral and intellectual thunderboldozer of the revolution, called Stevan Lilic. According to Lazo M. Kostic – in Austria, the first beginning of the administrative judiciary contains a law on judicial authority since 1867. Says this thief Stevan Lilić - in Austria the first beginnings of the administrative judiciary contain law on judicial authority since 1867. I don't see the difference. Come on, when he was taking off his marks, taking off his quotes, putting on marks and quotes, that's where he could be seen and his contribution to science, but there's no one here. He says, "Professor." Kostic – it says that he who claims that by one decision the administrative authority has violated its rights will be able to seek protection from the administrative court in an oral debate which will be attended by a representative of the defendant's administrative authority. According to scientist Stevan Lilić, he says that he who claims to have been violated by a certain decision of the administrative authority in his rights (I read Lilicovo after all, I feel like reading what he is. Kostic wrote, too, but I must read to you twice), injured in his rights to seek protection from the administrative court in an oral debate which will be attended by a representative of the defendant's administrative authority and will regulate a special law. He says, "Professor." Kostic – the law was issued in 1875. Says scientist Lilić – this special law (special, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament) was brought (not betrayed, but brought) in 1875. Here with Professor Kostic says – he predicts for all Austrian countries a administrative court in Vienna whose business is normalised next year. Scientist Lilic says... There is no point, so that he predicts, but he is in one sentence, he succeeded thanks to his scientific abilities to combine two simple sentences into one simple, or complex, and says this – this special law was passed in Vienna in 1875 and provides for all Austrian countries a single administrative court in Vienna. In Hungary until before World War II, only in 1883 a financial administrative court was established, and in this case, Lazo M. Kostic... The whole sentence that I'm not reading right now. There's another scientist that Stevan Lilic didn't quote, I'm sorry, Mr. Krasic, he stole. It's not called a quote, it's called plagiarism, a thief, the greatest thief of all time who has crossed the threshold of an institution. That scientist's name is Nikola Stjepanović. Now I'm going to tell you: Stevan Liliæ started writing a scientific paper using the brains of professor. Nikola Stjepanović and Stevan Lilić's playplay and they started working together in one part and when the work came out Prof. Nicole Stjepanović... He's not here. Maybe he was in footnotes somewhere. Since my time is up, I'll come out on the second amendment to introduce you to further details of this shop.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26920	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26921	The basic problem with this law is that it is difficult for inspection authorities to determine an infringement of intellectual property rights. I would find it really interesting to have someone explain to me how the tax inspector might find that the copyright of a video was violated. I hear some of the most popular, the best, has some nickname Evil and something like that... Tell me how the tax inspector could determine that the video made through Dragan Djilas' agency is not a faithful copy of a video made by Evil for the production of "Brothers of Karic". I don't think the tax inspector would be able to determine that. Why did I say this? Because Article 12 begins with a premise for everything that follows in that article – the competent authority, if it directly determines that the right of intellectual property has been violated... So, market inspector knock-knock, good afternoon, let's see that product, yeah "Bambi," please, this is a fake. How could he determine that? How will he determine when it comes to books? According to the law governing the right and protection of the right of the author, who is there to determine whether the right of intellectual property has been violated, if we take those terms and describe everything that the law regulates. That's a big problem. From the point of view of these inspection bodies, author's work, ideas, the author's work is an ingredient of something called goods, if this works out to some slave in space. Some creator's coat is a slave, but it also contains something in its value that is the author's work of a fashion designer. I took this example because it's easy to understand and understand. Does this mean that when the inspector enters the store and, say, sees the label on who the manufacturer is, he should say – maybe it's not from that manufacturer, maybe it's someone in Novi Pazar just pasted that sticker. It is very difficult to protect copyright through inspection, because of the very specific knowledge needed. Inspectives may be used to protect authors if the traffic of such goods is prevented by the authoritative work of a third party. That's why it's good to have it all on goods or services. I know why you need this law to remove some ambiguities and misunderstandings with the inspection bodies. Many times the inspection organs are tied hands when they need to intervene. Why? In the course of control, they also find the dispatcher, etc. and for a large amount of disks, CDs, etc. We know what this is for. It will be hard for a writer to protect his authorial work through an inspection body. What inspector needs to read the book and see if anyone's copying anything? What Mr. Markovic was reading here, it is from the court records, because Stevan Lilic sued Vojislav Seselj for slander and, behold, he was represented by legal expert Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo and lost the procedure, of course. She lost her case, and even in the audit, she protested strongly against the District Court, as possible, since democracy prevailed, that someone dared not accept her appeal. Stevan Lilic had to publish his textbook's 50 corrections to make serious material mistakes at the university's advertising board. I would not recommend Mr. Markovic to read Lilić, giving him unnecessary importance. It is much better for the book to mention Gašo Knezevic, who broke all possible regulations, because when the teaching-science council did not want to take any action towards Vojislav Seselj, he, by the right supervision, brought a solution as a minister, caused a dispute. The only damage from this dispute was the judges of the Supreme Court whom God punished for apparently illegal judgment. It's famous and everybody knows it. Mr. Parivodic, if you think something needs to be done to protect intellectual property so it doesn't abuse itself, then I'm taking the risk that this looks like a principle debate. In principle, questions are being raised here as problems. These amendments can be treated as legal-technical solutions that need to improve this text of the law. Believe me, there is no amendment that can improve the second sentence of Article 12 — the competent authority, if it directly determines that an intellectual property right has been violated... How's he gonna determine that? There is no contract with the author, there is no consent of the author. I'd like to give you an example: there's a commercial going around every day, and I think the lotto's advertised, some guy's driving a car, and he's putting his hand on some grandma's leg. It's a stolen foreign video. The same video exists abroad. However, ours are much nicer than those from abroad, better-looking actors. I know, Minister, we can talk now, member of this, member of that, we can talk about it any way we want. We're talking about using an inspection here, and you have a two-spect inspection here: you have an inspection on official duty doing something, and I'm telling you right at the beginning, according to what you wrote, Art. 12, 13 and 14, which is a whole, something called procedure, you have a temporary confiscation of goods, and it can become permanent when the inspection informs the author and it is necessary to initiate proceedings before the court to protect its copyright and seek a temporary measure of confiscation of that goods and then wait, etc. This goes beyond the principle of the work of the inspection bodies. They temporarily confiscate the goods during inspection until the solution to the confiscation of goods becomes final. When it comes to such corrupt goods, the procedure is far faster. So this is going back to the stereotypes of how the inspection bodies are acting. The request of the party is only an initial act that the state takes steps from the jurisdiction of the state through inspection, and here because of this great problem and the fact that the inspection cannot protect copyright... How can she directly discern that someone’s right of intellectual property has been violated? It's impossible. They too will not be able to determine that someone's copyright has been violated and that they are taking action, etc. That's the lack of this regulation. It would be much better if you were precise, clear and loud in this law that this is a classic inspection regulation applicable to the transport of goods and services, because through the transport of goods and services, the one who is a plagiarizer, the one who steals the idea, is materializing his work. Legal protection of copyright is exercised in court. The inspection is tasked with stopping the traffic in the transport of goods and services, and by stopping that traffic itself, it protects the author. This law cannot protect the state. I'll give you an example. We've started a criminal procedure, and since they call us to keep mentioning names, I don't want to mention names. One big house and some big singers agree and make some contract and make it 5,000 CDs, so I've said out loud what number is, and then from Bulgaria comes a far larger amount. The state is denied customs, tax and everything else. There the author committed a crime or a crime, or a businessman made his CD-cutting factory near Belgrade somewhere, and half of the government went to the opening ceremony and everyone knows that only 10% of the factory that came out, came out under papers, and 90% past the paper. Do you know that they plant these CDs where you're going to throw them and break them and crush them? Why – let those 2% out there for the public and drive over here and finish the job. You should protect the author from the author himself, not his authorial work, but the traffic. Therefore, this law cannot satisfy the quick and effective protection of intellectual property rights. So you gave that system. This amendment we have submitted refers to what Mr. Poscurica said at the outset, and that is why I do not want to enter into these details. This applies to professional books and makes one whole. You can say it's covered by attitude 2, so you don't accept the amendment, etc. This amendment makes one logical continent with previous amendments when it comes to professional publication and professional literature. I draw your attention to the inapplicability of this regulation because it comes from the wrong premise. The first premise, that the inspector has established an infringement of intellectual property rights, is now absolutely impossible, because no inspector will do so. The inspector may find out from the papers that there's no entry documentation for these 5,000 CDs, so he'll temporarily take it. He can, and he doesn't have to inform the author. He's done his part of the job, he's pulled it out of illegal traffic, and he can do it by tax regulations, and I think it's 130th and some member, temporary seizure, permanent seizure, and the end of the story. He can inform the author, but be careful what is the purpose of this notification – he has established illegal traffic and is driving him under the Tax Administration and Tax Procedure Act. He can say that no intellectual property rights have been violated, and some other inspector may say that it is illegal traffic, but it is also an infringement of intellectual property, so let the author know that he has to go before the competent court, to seek a temporary measure and to file a lawsuit. You know that well, since you represent the authors, that's what you said at one of the last sessions. You have a lot of knowledge in that area. So, at the same time, more solutions are possible, and even in this process, it is possible for the person who put this in illegal traffic to come up with a document and achieve a court settlement with that author. Then the question arises in which function is the temporary confiscation of the case, whether it is in a function that the state fulfils its obligation, does not allow illegal trafficking, or is thus abused by the state by the authors and plagiarists that their agreement before the court is blocking the state in certain things, and that solution of temporary confiscation will never be final. We agreed, as an author with a plagiarizer, I agreed to share it, 2,000 be yours, 2,000 be mine, etc. You can't stop that deal. You're even allowing the author to protect his copyright in this way. In my view, the protection of intellectual property is much more acceptable to other provisions that speak of acting on demand. I think they have a lot more ground in the Copyright Act, but we need to be aware of another situation. The inspection isn't a means of proof for the author. We need to know that. When an inspection gets a request from a citizen, it's usually some kind of application application... And the application is because the inspection works on official duty, conducts the procedure under official duty. On the basis of the application, citizens' notifications, it only gets elementary information to be involved in some procedure, and here when you say on request inspection goes and checks, so it becomes practically an author's means of proof of any kind of procedure, and it doesn't even have to take some measures out of its jurisdiction. I think you've had to add this matter in a different way to the Copyright Act, you know what I mean. I think you had to build it up, and this -- to establish an IPR breach, I have to tell you that inspectors can't do it, they don't know they're doing it, and they don't need to know they're doing it. They need to deal with the business of getting out of the illegal traffic of goods and services what is illegal, to prevent it, to seduce order on the market, and already this protection needed by the owners of these rights is something that could be resolved in court, because if a mistake occurs here, it's a great shame for something that might even be legal, and there are no such protective mechanisms here. When the inspection is used for something that's subtle, and copyright is something subtle, it's like opening a house with a bulldozer. The inspection is simply not the kind of organ that has this subtleity to know if this is the work of Laza Kostic or Stevan Lilić. However, when it comes to Stevan Liliæ and two bulldozers, it is not a mistake. It's going to be a big problem in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26922	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26923	I don't think there's anything simpler than for the market inspector to go to the flea market and find a variety of "naked", "mildness", "bos" and other things that are so price and quality recognizable that a blind man can just feel the quality to recognize what the original is, let alone see. We are greatly benefiting from inspection; in Knez Mihailovo, in the main shopping street in Belgrade, on the spot, this goods are being taken away and that is the point. On the other hand, when you have finer injuries, such as copyright violation, which you are talking about, then the author of the works or those of those persons who are in charge of fostering the memory of that author, such as the Academy of Science, can launch an initiative and mobilise an inspector, but only in situations where the commercial use of that piece is concerned in the sense that it is printed in hundreds of copies and placed on the market. When it comes to a photocopy used by a student for his own purposes, there can be no inspection. You have, say, one situation that, besides law school, there is one photocopier in which you have all the textbooks of law school, decorated with plastic spirals, and rarely anyone who buys original textbooks, because for a third of the price or half of it to buy and the student is normally getting along. In this situation, the Faculty of Law can send an inspection and empty that photocopier of these injured acts, so that it has very practical applications sometimes on the spot when it comes to obvious, and secondly, these inspectors will certainly be trained in identifying copyright violations. In particular, financial inspectors and tax police will be trained to identify whether there is a licensed programme in the computer or not. It's not a big philosophy to recognize it, it just needs to have a proper sticker and it's known that it's licensed. It's not that complicated, and you'll see it will work very effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26924	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26925	Of course I'm not happy with the answer, because you've taken the wrong examples again. At first I said, it's no problem when the inspection controls the traffic of goods and services, so it finds something illegal. You took a nice example, flea market, where there's some "naked", you're looking for documentation, the seller doesn't have that documentation, and obviously it's illegal, and I agree. But if we put that example into function of what you've written here, and that's the initial sentence of Article 12, that he's found that it's also an infringement of intellectual property rights, tell me who he's going to notify by the position of the 2nd or 3rd of that same member, who is he going to notify on behalf of the Nyk firm, who is he? It is the protection of intellectual property, so you do not know your law, you say in Article 13—the competent authority, in the case of Article 12, of the infringement of intellectual property rights and of the measures taken, informs the rightholder if his address is known. You know who he'll notify, "Nick" Serbia, "Nick" Belgrade? Who's that? You don't know, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26926	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The representative of the committee's proposal has adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26927	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, are members of the 14th and amendments that we have submitted to what counterpart Krasic was talking about. Simply to explain what this is about, I will quote the position of Article 2, which we have submitted the amendment to. Paragraph 2 reads: if the holder of the right within the time limit laid down in the preceding Article of this Act does not deliver a judgment of the court which determines the provisional measure, the temporarily withdrawn goods shall be returned to the person from whom they have been withdrawn, or an act temporarily prohibited from the exercise of activity shall be put out of force. We suggest that following the word "no delivery" we add the following words "to the competent authority with evidence that it has initiated proceedings to protect its right against the court of jurisdiction", and further as it goes. Therefore, in Article 14 of this Act, it is necessary to add that the temporarily withdrawn goods are returned to the person from whom they were taken, and the act prohibiting the exercise of activity puts out of force if the holder of the right does not notify the competent authority, with due evidence, of the initiation of a judicial procedure for the protection of his or her right. In certain cases where the right holder has initiated proceedings within the legal period referred to in Articles 13 and 3 of this proposal of the law, and within that time-limit, the decision of the court has not yet been taken, it could delay, until the court has taken a decision in the procedure in which the goods are taken, the return of the temporarily withdrawn goods, or the imposition of an act prohibiting temporary exercise of activity. I think this clarification could define, I would say more logically, this bill, to make a clear distinction between what you wrote and what you're referring to in Article 13, when it comes to assets or goods taken away.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26928	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll try, Minister, later, since I saw that you got wings and that you were very encouraged last time there were few MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, so you were attacking Serbian radicals, you were very wise and smart. This amendment should be accepted for the simple reason why it is said in this article that the right holder is obliged to, at the request of the competent authority, and in order to determine the infringement of the intellectual property right, without delay and compensation, provide information and provide assistance to the competent authority, including technical expertise, equipment and facilities. Our amendment excludes this "without delay and compensation", because this is about damage, this is about the victim, and then there's a problem with the abuse of the competent authorities in the real intellectual property rights holders, because in this case they'll have to prove ownership of their property. Such a solution is flawed, because the competent authority that could register under official duty could do so without reporting a damaged person, a group of persons or an association, and then it is amazing that the damaged party is carrying all the consequences and all the problems involved in proving the damage to its intellectual property. It is, imagine that, even in this more complicated process, as the minister says, someone is asking the members of the Laza M. Kostic family to prove; how much money and how much money and what it takes to prove that the prominent informant Stevan Lilic is a great thief, and that is obvious to anyone, without great harassment, it can be determined. Namely, the man took and prescribed the entire textbook "Administrative Law" from Laza M. Kostic, and today he falsely presents himself at the Faculty of Law as a professor. They still call it those from these anti-Serbian TVs, such as B92, to be their analyst, to explain to them what is happening today in Serbia, how decisions should be made in our country, what is it that we have to do to have full respect for the legal norms and the functioning of the legal order, the rule of law, which is one of the most common orthodox thieves, the man who stole it. Someone was once surprised when we talked about this guy stealing intellectual property, when we said it was worse than murder. This is really worse than the murder, so what he did was a prominent informant, prominent Democrats Stevan Lilic. So, he thought that the books of one of the largest Serbian lawyers, historians and sociologists, one of the most persecuted people after World War II, emigrant writer Laza M. Kostic and his opus were forgotten, that there was no control, so he took the whole book "Administrative Law" and literally wrote it, just to add one or two sentences that you can't say that from word to word he wrote. Then you see what democracy you brought us and what thieves came after October 5th. That's why you should accept this amendment, you should accept it because you see what thieves, forgers are like. One of the known media counterfeiters, therefore, journalists who love to lie very much, has created a table today where it says – the DS has zero dinars of costs, you know, they do not participate in the work of the Serbian Parliament. Today you'll see what a liar they are and what a liar they are. I'm expecting about 12.30 hours, so today I might be in the afternoon, and maybe in the afternoon, I'll get to know the public how much the working hour of the Democratic Party's representative costs. I think it's the most expensive working hour on the globe, that I've never seen anyone earn that much in my life. I don't think Bill Gates makes as much an hour as Dusan Petrovic, Shuki plasma and others make. So I don't think anyone on the globe makes as much money as they do and you can't read it in the papers, and what to do now. And, in the end, or something before the end, I see today in the paper, threatened by a CIA agent, publicly threatened me by Zoran Stankovic. Doesn't he think I'm scared of him? He says I'm going to be chased by the government's authorities. As if it were my first time, I can't wait for both the prosecutor and that big brave hero, all of them can't wait, just let them do their job, and the CIA agent will have to answer for what he did against Serbia. I'm not naive to say anything like that without knowing what I'm saying. Most of you know I'm right. There is one more thing I cannot say to the citizens, and some of you already know – what will be Zoran Stankovic, whose witness he will be, what dirty work he is involved in, what he is doing against Serbia and the Serbian people. It will then have to become a public matter and then some others will not threaten me with a long-standing prison sentence if I bring out all the details of his anti-Serb and dirty work. Just you, Minister, do your job. I can't wait, I just hope he doesn't run away from the court after that, like some others did as soon as they came before the judicial institutions. As for this government and the minister's statement, since I'm following what he's saying in public, there's something very clever about the Te in Novi Sad, and he says he doesn't know the Ministry of Mining, he doesn't know about the investment of "Technopromexport", so the construction of the Te in Novi Sad. Why don't you tell us what law has been broken? Why don't you say that this Russian firm can't build, why don't you say that the Russian ambassador is involved in some dirty business? Why do you laugh in front of your B92 and the rest of the media? Woe, we do not know, we will see, there is none of it. What doesn't have any of that? In September, they'll start building. It seems to bother you. That you're not going to take down the Russians what they're making, with so much investment, with 5,500 people who are going to be employed in construction, with 550 people who are going to work there? Or you're having a problem with some kind of contact and some kind of connection made in everything by someone from the SRS, so now - we don't need money if they come from Russia or if they're not good for us if they have anything to do with the SRS, so that's a terrible problem. Is that what this is about, Mr. Minister and the other ministers? We're waiting to see you say - Mr. Alexander Alexei doesn't know what he's saying, Russian ambassador. It's not clear to a man what happened. Tell us the opposite of which legal code is something done, name one thing, so let's see what the problem is. You don't know, nobody else knows. To tell the unaccompanied viewers: I walked with Igor Mirovic and we met one from Novi Sad who criticized it on all mouths, all day in all the media he attacked, from one of the opposition committee groups. Otherwise, it represents power today in Serbia. We meet him, and he laughs like crazy at flour. I don't even know him, the first time I've seen him in my life. I'm sorry, I can see Igor saying good-bye to him. The man says -- what you're saying, what you're attacking when it's all clean, it'll pay tens of millions of euros for city building land, it'll benefit Novi Sad greatly. Let go, he says, you see I'm crazy. It really was. I'm looking and I can't believe it. The next day I read again in the paper to say the same thing. I expect this inspection surveillance, Mr. Minister, to start right from law school, but not from making it harder for students to buy scripts or photocopies because their parents don't have money, but from law school, let them kidnap Stevan Liliæ first all of what he has earned by falsely representing himself as the author of the book, that the thief then goes behind bars, as someone who committed one of the most immoral, if not the most serious crimes. That'll show how dopers end up in prison for thieving, so stealing intellectual property, and it'll all be incomparably easier. Then the election comes to you, Mr. Minister, and after the election, we'll see everything in the papers, which, who, where, and in what way, will end up in the assembly benches, and what, where, where, who and how the authorities are going to prosecute some, and not because someone tells them that they're CIA agents or this and this, not because of a different opinion, but because of what they've done, robbed and robbed Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26930	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26931	Ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate, we mentioned, by the way, that somehow that Article 16 comes in front of these others. Okay, that's possible. It's like if medical books were written – pre-diagnosed therapy. Here you can see in article 16, what will, acting on request, be done by the competent authority, and then there is only one application, and then we can work it out. We see in the later articles 19, 23, 24 and 25, as if they had replaced the place. Maybe it was done in a hurry, theoretically it could go through like this. We do not intervene to replace the place with members, but to eventually refresh this member, to put those words of "expert publications", what you have said, Mr. Minister, and to set an example of what could happen at the legal and the mass of other universities. That wouldn't be a problem if the students from the professor would get such books to copy. It's with the knowledge of the author and it's okay, but there's a problem when it's done outside the knowledge of the professor, off the needs of the students. There's someone in there who can get a photocopy. Even many textbooks are given in the electronic version, you can find manuals and other professional literature on the site. Some of it was asked of me, I gave my consent, it's unspeakable. When consent is yes, it is a clear thing, it is put on the site and then it is no longer an abuse, but it needs to be created such a site, with such explanations that support the problem. Then when it's not given, when it comes to the very expensive professional literature that's being plagiarized, which may sometimes be done too quietly, because it's mostly foreign literature and until we have ratified contracts, which aren't implemented, that we protect foreigners. We weren't even willing to do it, we didn't need to, we saw how they returned to us. I don't think we're going to protect them with this current work, but generally, when the law is passed, some things have to be put in place. Therefore, the possibility of preventing and banning the distribution of such professional literature is useful for the author, especially for a group of honest people who actually do so and who do not have the means to finance it. You know that colleges are also a little involved in funding textbooks; they're going to sponsor funds. Professors who don't belong to a group of honest people are able to do, which is not to admit, ask students to bring in the original book they bought from him or his assistants, put in a stamp and date of purchase. In fact, for free of that plagiarism, someone just smitten themselves, children can buy it, they can't even borrow each other. To this extent, the abuse that teachers can do very often to improve the sale of their textbooks, by combating plagiarism, is being developed. After all, it also makes it difficult for students. It would be very useful if we adopted this, so it would be known that it can't go into it without authority, and if you get the authority from the author's teacher, the author's group, that in this way it's cheaper for students, then it's a different story, with a sticker, with evidence of author approval, it's a pie thing. This is most often in our practice and cannot be determined. So I think if you could adopt this amendment, nothing special would change the meaning of the law. The application procedure is one part of the topic that we will discuss later, through other members, because acting on request is practically already bringing in the holder of copyright, the holder of the licence, the stamps, etc. in a complex procedure that he can get out of quite a hump. But it is not the subject of this amendment, but of the following, which can be concluded that something must be done to change the existing solutions that have been given by law, so that those people who are right, who are quite right, will not succumb to the possibility that the court, within a short period of time, will not give them a final measure to protect their rights, and that they bear the costs again, and that the bank deposits and other financial costs, the vis-à-vis facts that they were objectively right when they sought protection of intellectual property. This is one of the first steps that we can help intellectual property owners to preserve their rights, and the possibility of being kind to those who cannot, according to students, according to other subscribers of their works, can always be regulated by the Copyright and Related Rights Act, and finally by this so-called. By law, we don't think this would significantly extend the law, if you adopt it, and change the meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26932	On the occasion of the amendment, Mr. Vukic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26933	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as you know, we keep our promises. Listen, Mr. Albianic, this is very important. So, Serbian citizens, to see how they lie to individual media and to see how you're being robbed by certain political organizations. Namely, they say – costs zero, total costs over a period of 1. 01. 2006 to 31. Three. 2006. I would never move this argument, ever, because it was usually used by the wicked and backward political forces in history, around the cost-effectives, unless it was passed by the law, of course. Retrograde, as they would say, the forces of chaos and madness. You see, the Democratic Party has spent two hours and four minutes in the National Assembly in the last six months. The two hours and four minutes cost Serbian citizens a total of 12,319,094 dinars and 93 pairs plus 5.513,925 dinars. Eighteen million cost them two hours and four minutes. So, I haven't seen a more expensive watch in my life, and I don't think there's a man in the world who makes more money than Democratic Party MPs. For the DS Group, the clock is nine million. Did anyone hear that? I think together to gather Drogba, Bekam, Ševchenko, Ronaldino and Henri don't have as much as Dusan Petrovic, Shuki Plasma and others, so watch. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, as far as the national team is concerned, I think it's our smallest. Of course, we have one problem, which is more of us than everyone else. I must inform you that this will seem to be your problem in the next term. It doesn't have to mean, it's true it's going to be, so it doesn't have to mean anything. Imagine, people, how this country would have failed if they'd been here for 15 hours. Their 20 hours would take 900 million, mother born, who would pay for it! Please, Mr. Obradovic, don't call them anymore, Serbia will fail if it has to pay them by this hour, we don't. We might be able to pay some Zigic and Stojkovic, but to pay Henri, Chevchenka, Beckham and Bill Gates together, and sit as an DS MP, I don't think there's anyone there. You say two left legs, even with two left legs, something good would be done for the country, but I don't think they're up to their feet or Serbia. As I assume that the press conference will not pass on to us today, I am taking the opportunity to invite all citizens who have the right to vote in Montenegro to take the referendum on Sunday, to vote for the survival of the state community, to beat the separatist bloc, not sovereignism, as they call themselves. Since I see that there are many who hate Serbia here in Belgrade, even among the followers of the seventh force who would in any way support the separatist movement of Milo Djukanovic, to anyone who hates Serbia, to anyone who hates the Serbian people – let him do what he wants in life, but let him not pass it on to our citizens and to our people because our people need to stay and need to live in one, I cannot tell a single one, because it would be a synonym for a unitary state, but whatever it would be good, but let it be common, let it be if you want the state community, just to live in one country, because we don't have a reserve country here or our people in Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26934	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. People's MP Momir Markovic came to the floor. The remaining time per amendment is five minutes and 15 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26935	Mr. Chairman, five minutes at a time, I will read both books and hope to convince the minister; in accordance with the current law, let the gentleman take certain acts to protect copyrights, especially dead people, and to pack this thief behind the lock. Mr. Minister, you have a law that was passed on May 15, 1998, published in Official Journal of the SRS number 24, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, under which, even if we don't pass this law, you can calculate yourself with thieves in the area of copyright. Let me help you out a little bit. So, he prescribed dead professor Lazu M. Kostic, he prescribed Professor Milkov, he prescribed Professor Stjepanovic. Here, take another look at the work, the great work, the author's work by Stevan Lilić. Let's say, for Professor Milkov on page 39, we read -- it's a parliamentaryism in which the government has the advantage, the administrative and executive powers are united in a single execution. And the author Lilic says so -- it is parliamentaryism in which the government has the advantage, the administrative and executive authorities are united in a single execution. You see how much authorial inspiration there is at one point in a world-class intellectual, top intellectual. He even put a point where it should be put, that is, where Professor Milkov put it. And he says on page 39, and now his sticky intellectual power is coming... On page 39, Professor Milkov's textbook says – the powers of the federal government, unlike the federal assembly, are largely extended compared to the previous state. The federal government educates and abolishes federal ministries and other federal authorities and organisations. It determines their organization and their workaround. Now listen, Lilic says – unlike the federal assembly, the powers of the federal government relative to the federal administration have been significantly expanded. So, it's not largely, it's largely expanded, so it goes on to say (and there's no sign of Milk), the federal government (there's no sign of Milkov here), among other things (there's no sign of Milkov), educates and abolishs the federal ministries and other federal authorities and organizations, and determines their organisation and workaround. Three dots he managed to pack, though for two, there's no room, but it doesn't matter, that's the authorial part of Mr. Lilic. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry about what I said to Mr. Lilich. By the way, two hours, Mr. Chairman, standing the card of Natasha Micic up, she came, she attends, though, we don't see her, but she was there, and those two hours will pay fat for that pricer Mr. Vukic spoke of. But we go on, when we copy Laza M. Kostic, that is, says Professor Kostic – the Constitution is a direct source of law for the authorities of the administration when they can and must base their acts directly on certain provisions of the Constitution. This is only when the Constitution explicitly gives authority or determines the duties of the Authority of Administration. In "Administrative Law", a textbook for the law school of Professor Dr. Laze M. Kostic. In the case of the defeated professor Lilic in "Governmental Law", the Constitution is a direct source of law (and here - the Constitution is a direct source of law) for the authorities of the administration when they can and must base their acts directly on the provisions of the Constitution. This is only when the Constitution, explicitly establishing the authorities of the administration, empowers and determines their duties, as well as determines the forms of control. Professor Parivodich, sit at the same table with a man who, first of all, has no morals. Second, he doesn't even have this much intellectual in him. The only thing he learned to copy. Professor Parivodich, I'd be ashamed to sit with people like that. I'd do my best to make sure that man gets what he deserves, and he deserves years of prison. A much bigger prison than murderers without premeditation, because this was done with premeditation. (President: Mr. Markovic, you're five minutes out. I'd like to thank you, but I need you to say no to me this minute that I overstepped when I get out next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26936	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Milovanovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milet Poscurica, and then by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26937	So if there had been something like this before, this kind of amendment intervention that we're doing, maybe someone would have stopped, some interested party, Lilić, from flagrantly taking someone else's opinion, someone else's scientific knowledge. Of course that's theoretically possible when you create some kind of prerogatives, circumstances. We wanted to say the amendment – the final version of the professional publication, the master's work, the procedure, which is why they need educational inspections, etc. Of course, I don't need an inspector, if he wants to do his official duty, to read it, no one should even have the authority to do it. We don't think that university autonomy and education are broken by the fact that inspectors have to read the final versions of professional papers, it would be terrible for someone to make a commitment, but if it is, we've moved on to when he works on request, when the interested party comes and says – my textbook, my work, my work, my friend's work is plagiarized, copied, taken my opinions, my ideas, my knowledge, my patents, my stamps, all of it, this man took, it's in the stage of preparation for publication. Then, on application, he can, regardless of the consequences the applicant will have, which he believes his intellectual property is damaged, to pay, and we have seen that there is a lot of financial interference with the exercise of this right. Yet it would create an inspection of a certain formal possibility to intervene. First of all, it doesn't make precedents, it turns textbooks itself, it can, like any interested person, and you know, a doctorate can listen to anyone, not just a man from the profession, anyone who can, completely people off the books, get to know the problem or want to hear it or the phenomenon of the defense is public, so that even an inspector can disguise himself, who defends him. We didn't want to modify any intervention, but the possibility that when an interested party or author, if he's alive, because it's very delicate, find him, if he knows the address, if the residence is known and if the man is alive... What if it isn't, then the whole side is out, like in the case I'm talking about. Then we should have some relevant interested institution, we heard, the Academy of Science, for example, or the College of Experts, etc., editorial boards, publishers, someone else interested in keeping that right, to remain as it is, to propose, to write a request, cannot suggest, an inspection to go into the control of whether it is or not. That's why we wanted to make this intervention so that when we put in the closing word, someone wouldn't roll over other people's professional papers and somebody's primary manuscripts, do stupid things, intercept people in cabinets, turn the goods around so the laws don't get abused. We just wanted to be more specific about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26938	National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment submitted by fellow Milovan Radovanovic, that point 1) is "specific, if it refers to one specific shipment, or quantity of goods, the final version of the professional publication, or", should certainly be accepted because, you heard from the presentation of the professor. Pokukica, absolutely uninstructed to consider something that is not the final version, regardless of whose authorial work it is. When it comes to such a fraud and a thief like Stevan Lilić, you know in advance that he has no initial or final version. He steals, takes everything at once, signs under it, and, of course, that's why he's a dirty plagiarizer and a fraud, and there's no dispute. At this point, I am sorry that Minister Parivodić is not in the O.R. because I answered, as this is also about the amount of goods to be identified as her identity, or origin. The minister just said something that doesn't have to be true at all. It has even been shown on our market and on the European market, that I am not speaking in the Far East and the Far East, that goods made not by license but by faith, a fantastic copy of the originals, absolutely cannot be recognized in many countries. He, who had just said – to the touch it can be seen, that the knower did not know which stamps, he listed earlier "nak", "lakness", "fish", etc., that the expert couldn't establish it, because in such an original way and with such credibility they were copied and sold as originals all these products and the final version was actually such, so he was absolutely wrong when he earlier claimed that someone could see it with a naked eye. It's not those crocodiles that are in diameter of two to five, where it says "fish" or "num" incorrectly, which appears on flea markets and what people buy, because people are poor, the country is in huge misery and poverty, and they have to be supplied there, they can't buy the original product. I'm not talking about authorized distributors of these goods, but let's say in some sports equipment stores that sell these original goods you can see and find out, in fact, if you look closely and you understand that and if you know what you need to look at, that and how well a copy is done, it's almost identical to the original. It's the same with perfumes and all the other goods. There's no end to it, and it's actually something that no inspector, and especially layman for that area... The inspector who comes to the scene, who in his life didn't own an original brand, can't face what's original and what's not. For him, everything that's about the original maltene is the original, and I'm not talking about these incredibly well-produced copies. Later, if there's a chance, I'll do it again, because the minister isn't here right now, but I believe that you, a young colleague, are going to tell him what's really true.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26940	Anybody else answer for a word? (Momir Markovic, from the scene: Do we have any more time? You have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not my goal to bother you with these long quotes from one book and another, but my goal is to finally make this government, if it's decided to clear up with thieves and crime, it's already gone once, because it's been six years since this was established, and more than 15 years since this thieving has been done. I want an existing law called the Copyright Protection Act to be applied. As a National MP, I ask the Minister, the Ministry of Justice, that not only me, but the National Assembly inform, first, why here for five or six years is known, and nothing has been done, secondly, what will be done and when Stevan Lilić, an intellectual thief, will receive an adequate reward for the work he has done, and the appropriate reward for this is a long-standing prison. I'm talking about three authors he prescribed from. Is there anything in this scientific opus called Stevan Lilić that he personally did, except maybe he signed and certainly signed these other people's books and signed payment orders for these works. Says Professor Stjepanović... And, unfortunately, he's dead and he can't ask for copyright protection under your law, and according to previous law, his descendants can ask for fat compensation from this criminal sitting upstairs in a law school cabinet. This is how Professor Stjepanović says – the only group of related jobs that a man is unable to perform on his own. As long as there are jobs that can be done by one person, the organization as a phenomenon related to the related work of a larger number of people is not needed. Lilic says this again at the moment of inspiration, intellectually, – under the task is the group of related work operations (it is not business, ladies and gentlemen, it is work operations with him and it is his intellectual contribution to science) which one man is unable to perform alone. As long as it's work operations, not jobs that can be done by one person, the organization as such is not necessary. It says – only when it comes to work operations that require the coherence of the work of a larger number of persons, the need for organisation arises. That's what Lilic says. Professor Stjepanovic says – only when the phenomenon is related to the related work of a larger number of people, when it comes to jobs that require the harmonisation of a larger number of persons, the necessity of the organisation's creation occurs. It's not an necessity here. It's a necessity. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect you've already prepared some of these inspectors who'll grope to determine whether it's an original or a forger, that you've prepared that other group of inspectors who just need to put two books next to each other and read sentences and compare whether there's something called the intellectual property of the previous author. Professor Stjepanović says – that one job would be done requires taking a number of actions, and this is a group of conflicting body movements. Further dismembering the movement is of interest to the scientific organisation of work, reorganisation, machinery and automation. Resavac Lilic – to achieve one task, i.e. In order for a specific job to be done (see how much science has been put into one sentence only) it is necessary to further factor into a number of actions and body movements of people who perform specific tasks. Just to see where he is here, Mr. Stjepanović dropped that too – people who do jobs, and here Liliæ put it in, he says – people who do specific jobs. Further dismembering actions as physical movements of people is not this occasion of direct interest, because this deals with disciplines such as the scientific organisation of work that it has for the purpose of achieving rationalisation. Isn't this interesting to you, Minister? The religion is also about Lilic's science, and you're reading the papers. It's not working. Let's move on. I apologize for taking a little time. The internal administrative control, Professor Stjepanovic says, is the control of senior administrative authorities over the lower superior and the subordinate. It appears spontaneously and develops without legal regulations and regulations. In particular, it was developed in police, in this particular state, at first one control of administrative activity in general. Then says Lilić – Internal administrative control is the legal control of senior authorities over the lower (this is added, this is his personal product) assumed over both subordinates and on the basis of hierarchical authority. Internal administrative control is also called hierarchical control, as it stems from administrative systems that rested on a purely hierarchical principle, the work of administration was in principle not regulated by law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it stands out this seven minutes we've had under this amendment, we can do another 77 amendments and 77 times 15 minutes, and it'll be a little bit more to explain how much a thief Stevan Lilic is. It is now seen to be a protégé and these authorities, as well as the previous ones after the Bulldozer of the Revolution. We SRS lawmakers expect, Serbian intellectuals also expect, putting in a cold and dark place for this thief not to break down further and that the state will finally start to deal with plagiarists, thieves and finally start protecting intellectual property. It's a much smaller problem if someone on their home computer cut a singer's CD, so he listens. This directly destroys the foundations of the state. With this cleared up, then we'll tell you – gentlemen, you've started fighting crime. Until then, we'll be wondering if 55 CDs sold some poor women out there at the market, which is a felony; until then we'll talk about peripheral things, and trains will pass. Until then, we'll talk... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... About the little things, I thank you, and we're gonna get past spies, so-called. various NGOs, we will pass the Kandić women, will pass by Minister Stankovic and his additional affairs related to some foreign intelligence services.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26942	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, if you did not want your attention so far to focus on the portions of the books he read, which are pure plagiarities, Mr. Momir Markovic, I think it is time for you to now on one such case, or this particular one, because the MP, Professor Dr. Zoran Mašić, in his amendment to Article 18, is just talking about one of these cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26944	I'm sorry to interrupt, but Mr. Mašić's amendment is next. This is the amendment of the Finance Committee, but you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26945	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26946	You have referred to Mr Mašić's amendment, and this is the amendment of the Finance Committee. Go ahead, you have the right to speak of every amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26947	Then I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26948	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26949	You're right, Mr. Chairman, I beat you to it by thinking there was no other amendment and I can't know because I don't have a report from the government or the board. It is a serious matter because of the lack of Article 18 in the position of 1st, what Professor Zoran Masic suggested, precisely because of this plagiarism committed by the dirty forger Stevan Lilic, professor of Law Faculty, your colleague, Mr Parivodić, who continues to have that status there and who dared even during the testimony of Prof. Vojislav Seselj commented on his presentation in the Hague case at the time he testified in the trial as a witness to the defence now killed Slobodan Milosevic. It's amazing that any of you colleagues who have the opportunity to cooperate with him or to see him can ever forget this kind of misdemeanor he's committed. It does not surprise me at all because his followers, i.e. those who think in the same way as him from this mafia yellow organization, such as Tadic, Gilas, Sutanovec and others, falsify history, falsify everything about Serbian heroes, Serbian heroes, various vomits and lies every day. When it comes to this and when it comes to applying, we believe that this amendment provides that the application of the right holder should state as evidence of parts of the professional publication or work in general, which is the case of the administrative right of the late professor and the great Serbian scientist Laza M. Kostic, whom he has rehabilitated in a certain way by Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, the very fact that his closest relative, his grandson, has transferred rights to Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, to collect the works and everything that he has recently received for life, "The Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", and not for Stevan Lilić, the dirty and the subject of plagiarism, uses Professor Vojislav Seselj, without any right to put his whole work in the House. It's amazing, Mr. Minister, that you didn't want to accept this amendment. Professor Zoran Masic, a university professor, is probably out of caution, on behalf of the SRS, not only because of this case, but also because of many who are undiscovered, and the question is how many there are, has submitted this amendment and asked for something to stand for. So, for someone against the law, against morality, against any code, which is indeed one of the most serious crimes, used someone's publication, someone's book, someone's author's work and scientific work, we believe that, in the quote of this request, it should stand, in order for the competent state authorities to clearly compatriate to see and recognize all of the works or parts that are plagiarized. That's why Dr. Masic submitted this amendment and you should consider, since you haven't given us an answer in writing why you refused something like this, which would bother... You won't read any of that in that daily newspaper. You can only read all kinds of nonsense and various inscriptions that are directed against the SRS. Or if you came to this unfortunate defence minister's statement that he would ask the state authorities to react because Alexander Vukic said he was a CIA agent. Yes, we'll repeat everywhere and in every place, directly placed in that place, with the emergency and the request of that freak Carla del Ponte. You'd better listen and look at what we're saying, and we suggest you improve the text of the law. You don't have to be sassy or vain. If this amendment has been written by Professor Zoran Mašić on behalf of the SRS and has offered you the opportunity to make it easier for the competent authorities to do so, by asking whether or not it is part of a publication, or part of a piece, misused, you can say nothing, to come up with some explanation that it is not necessary, and to act like that – to read the paper while MPs explain the amendments to, according to us, parts of the bad law, we will generally vote against it, but to try to convince you through the amendments – not to be polite and cultural, but to really put us in a situation to use a lot of harsher words. Now, Mr. Minister, it's 12.20 hours. That you are a hardworking and hardworking man, and you should be, because you are a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you were supposed to get up this morning at 06.00, have coffee, wash and shave, get dressed and go to the first trade or ask someone to do it, by 07:00 a.m., all the newspapers to read, so you can come to the National Assembly and if you have learned something smart and useful to use it from the Assembly's pay phone or if some journalists ask you in front of you, and not like this to prepare for a briefing in the middle of the session, it really doesn't make sense, without considering the text of the amendment that Professor Masic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26950	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. The minister has accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26951	The minister has accepted the amendment, but because of this bench throw, I have to take this call, and even make it a minister, I can see there's no Blic. So, Minister Parivodić, your impudence goes beyond all limits today. It's inadmissible, act any way you like, if you think you're going to piss us off and eventually stop talking about this, of course you're not going to make it. It's not nice, and when you accepted that first amendment, our colleague Paia Momchilov's amendment, before that I called you from the bench and asked you what amendment was accepted, because I didn't hear the chairman well, and it was previously about the amendment of the Finance Committee. I asked you this perfectly normally, and you turned around, and I said nothing, and I thought I'd accept it, but the more you attack me, the more I get the idea of not accepting the amendment. Minister, these aren't amendments to your grandmother. These are amendments to this law and you represent the government here. You must not act like this and you have no right to be angry at the MPs, at what we tell you. You may not love us, you may say that in your MP's club, in some of your circles, but here you must act as required by the function of the civil servant you perform. And what you're reading is also talking about you. For your information, ministers, the SRS MPs from this speaker speak to the public of Serbia and we speak to the public of Serbia and the public of Serbia know that the minister sits here for three hours, that he works for a good salary and reads the newspaper here. I didn't say that, I didn't give you "Blic" to get a little more information, but to let the citizens know that you read "News", "Kurir", now you get "Blic," and if it's missing we'll get more newspapers, don't worry. So, no matter what the minister has accepted this amendment, he may change his mind in the meantime, because now I've made him a little bit more angry, I'm just going to say a few sentences about what counterpart Momir Markovic is reading today from Professor Vojislav Seselj's book, and these are evidence of the plagiarism of Stevan Lilić. I found something interesting here, I couldn't believe it, but I made sure that, unfortunately, there were some intellectual misery in this room, and these are MPs who could laugh at such serious things. Stevan Lilić is a dirty, dirty plagiarizer, proven by the Supreme Court's decision in the process where he was defended by human rights fighter Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, and that is what is after Ratko Mladic, she seems to like such a handsome man. This Stevan Lilic is today president of an association called "Democracy Laws". One of those lawyers for democracy, I can see that even these days, and perhaps the minister has read, commented on the situation in this House. I remind you that he was one of those MPs who was in legal error in the last session, a professor of legal science in legal error, then resigned; then some citizens were MPs who were not elected and who were not on anyone's list, so he changed his mind again and returned to the Assembly. So, such a man dares to comment on some things and decisions of some committees today, etc., and he is also famous for that, Krasic said, wrote on an apology board to students for plagiarizing some parts of his other books. Like when in elementary school a teacher tells a student who was bad – go out on the board and write "I'm bad", so Stevan Lilić 50 times wrote an apology to the students for cheating on them on the ad board. So I'm really surprised that you reacted the way you reacted, some of you, not all of you. Another comment, Minister, when Zoran Krasic explained the amendment, so he talked about plagiarisms that could or could not be established by the market inspector, then you explained how easy it is to go to flea market and to determine the plagiarism of clothing items there. But it's not a good thing you took a flea for example for two reasons. The first reason is because people who have education are working on fleas, people who have lost their jobs, without their homes, without their homeland, who have come here to Serbia, or who are born and live here, who have been fired, and are forced to sell clothing items on fleas. On the other hand, there are a lot of people who buy on flea market, and these are also citizens of this country, who can barely buy them on flea market, even if it's plagiarism. Of course, I don't want to say that I support plagiarists in either clothing or anywhere, but you haven't been able to set an example in a country where so many citizens have difficulty living, where there are so many povertyes and miserys; you can still touch the flea market and Chinese shops from here on out; and then you can kill them nicely. You should have taken an example of those CD compacts, which Krasic also spoke of, which are plagiarized by those who recorded them, and have a lot of money, easily earn money. I don't mind, because they don't steal anyone's money, let them earn as much as the people are willing to pay, but it is important that the job is involved with Mladjan Dinkic, your colleague, finance minister. He's the one who was importing plagiarized CDs and he's the one who damaged the state budget that defends against this people. You should know that, and you should have taken that as an example of the discovery of plagiarism, not the poor thing on the flea market, I mean the sellers and the buyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26952	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26953	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I apologize, I have been denied the error of the present presentation when I said that this thief Stevan Liliæ stole three authors: Prof. Dr. Lazu M. Kostic, Professor Stjepanović and Professor Milkov. Now, by listing the book, I find that Stevan Lilić also stole Professor Slavoljub Popovic, Prof. Dr. Markovic, Professor Rajko Kuzmanovic, we have been able to determine this year. So that I won't bother you anymore, or I won't prove to you what a thief is and how he stole all these people, I'll read only the final part of this book, and otherwise I'm telling the authorities that this is part of the magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought", number 3 of 2000, and that as evidence of the judiciary and the police can find this in the SRS. So, the SRS publishes this magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought". At the end of the book, Professor Vojislav Seselj says – the criminal exploitation of Stevan Lilić should be branded fiercely in public in order to destimulate all potential followers of his copying school in advance. They should be aware that the crime of this species is absolutely not worth it, as well as that it may happen to them to be embarrassed and morally ruined. As for the thief, stevan lilic, he'd have to go to jail. It is certain that Serbian society is in deep economic crisis and social misery. The crisis inevitably leads to moral collapse. Many immoral activities have become a common phenomenon in people’s everyday lives, and people have also been embellished by them, so rare public reactions are also the most striking examples of immorality. I have to stop here, so let me remind you of the Ericson affair, the "Knjiz Milos" affair, the Popovac affair, the candy affair, the "Affer affair"; how many affairs there are, we have a little time until lunch to list it all for you, so I'm going to keep reading. But with that state of social consciousness and spirit, we must not reconcile. Therefore, the disclosure of every amoral type of criminal represents a stonestone in the construction of the restored moral dignity of the entire nation. We will inevitably rebuild this moral building because no crisis can last forever. Therefore, it must not be allowed to turn the case of Stevan Lilic, who, with the help of undeniable forgeries, has come to the greatest scientific titles and university titles, into an example of reputation. Of course, all of this has an express political dimension. It is not by any chance that a man of such a moral code as Liliæev belongs to the fifth column. He is a member of a highly pro-American-oriented political party and regularly participates in the realization of all tasks that domestic NATO infantry receives from its Western bosses. "The traitor seems literally a traitor in every field. After all, what prevents the person who betrayed his nation and country from betraying academic morality? The ambiance in which Stevan Liliæ politically acts entirely corresponds to his character traits. We have this real menagerie of character and no-one, from a priest rider in his spare time and petty thieves, to formerly ambitious police informants and confident descendants of the Titoist executioners over the Serbian people. There's a total, simple, all the scum that could have possibly caused this Balkan climate, but one can't give a chance to raise a Serbian youth. The damaging consequences of their influence in recent years have been felt by the entire people on their skin. It is not their goal to help students master their studies more successfully and to qualify for their own lives, but to manipulate them for subjugating purposes, to cause political confusion and chaos. In the whole Serbian public, it should show what these national freaks and moral degenerates like Stevan Lilic are essentially like. Those with whom Lilic is in a firm political race are certainly the same as those with whom Lilić is a parliamentarian in undermining his own country." I'm talking, in this case, about the yellow company. "We must be ruthless to such bastards. When they find themselves in a pinch, they usually whine and write penitent letters, but since they have no honor, they can't even stand out with pride. Moral misery is always intellectual creation. As a established and proven plagiarist, Stevan Lilic definitely needs to lose his academic honor and must be hired from the university. This is the way to heal Belgrade Law School, its debt to the famous tradition of our intellectual ancestors, who founded it as a temple of science and patriotism." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the reasons why the question of this thief hasn't been put on the agenda for a long time, and why it hasn't been given a court epilogue is that probably there are many more in that intellectual elite who are dealing with the copying of other people's scientific works. If the inspectors you're talking about, Minister, were to train and move on, the question is how many more academics would be left without that academic title. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I ask this country to finally put the question of Stevan Lilić and his thief on the agenda before certain state authorities and that this thieving work finally be brought to justice and every other epilogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26954	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 22. A bill of law, where security means are spoken of. This is completely incredible, unnecessary and contradictory with Articles 17 and 18. There are many examples in practice, along with this one sentence of reasoning that I have submitted, where you can see that pirates and those who are enormously rich in other people's copyrights of this law and directly to this Article 22 will be even more encouraged to work in such a way, not to pay anyone, to crush huge money, and people who are authors of valuable works, which music, which scientific ones, can only observe, to enter court disputes with a uncertain outcome and with compensation that cannot possibly be in that amount of damage done to them. Mr. Minister, if we have already defined in Articles 17 and 18 of this Law, with the one really exceeding the proposal of Professor Zoran Mašić, who you have just said is not an argument, and I am telling you that it is, because what better you than to put in place a complete part of what is plagiarism, you are now stating here in Article 22 that it is necessary to provide the means for him who initiates the procedure, i.e. a request for protection of his copyright. As you explain, in paragraph 1, you say: "When a request for protection of the right of intellectual property is adopted, the competent authority may require the applicant to place a means of security in the amount corresponding to the amount of costs that may arise if the procedure is suspended because of the action or failure of the applicant, or if it is established that there is no infringement of the right of intellectual property in a specific case". Item 2: "The security fund referred to in Article 1 may be a bank guarantee or deposit paid to a special account of the competent authority". Mr. Minister, this is really amazing. You already wanted to make a law and come before the National Assembly with such a law, that is also the requirement of this Association Commission, which has hitched further talks with you, because you have thrown yourself into the hunt for famous General Ratko Mladic, but thank God you will not succeed in that intention, but they have written there well that they are not satisfied and that this law is necessary to regulate our market, to prevent piracy, to prevent plagiarism. This is standardization of thieving and robbery. If you, under Article 22, are the applicant of a request, then it appears as a damaged party... I just have to remind you, Mr. Minister, that a few months ago, due to similar problems, there was even a certain physical accounting at a Belgrade hotel. You now all those who do not have the opportunity and have no money, and ask them for a deposit, and here you do not know what is the height of that deposit or bank guarantee, to go into the process to protect your intellectual rights, simply push and say – no, you keep quiet and suffer, you create, be good songwriters, good musicians, be top scientists, leave works for future generations. Then there will be hohstuplers and frauds, such as this Stevan Lilić, or there will be certain music houses that will appear in the following way: in Bulgaria, in the Far East, where there are no checks by the competent state authority, where there is no way to determine what is whose copyright, in millions of copies they will copy, or that they are doing piracy for certain copyright works. They appear at the SRJ border with Bulgaria, have a customs declaration and what is our customs officer looking at? Our customs officer can only see that there are 100 or a million pieces of some CD compact. He will not, nor are these his rights as a competent state authority, to enter into the essence, or copyright. So millions, that domestic authors, who are priced without their approval abroad, or books or any professional publications, will not only have to be music editions, to enter our country, to our market as copies, or as pure pirates, and that those who have done so do not respond to anyone. Then the author will appear. Wake up in the morning, come out and see that his works are being sold everywhere, his anthology collections, what was authorized in some particular case by some music house or some media house that got the right of the author to do so. What's he using under this law now? According to Articles 17 and 18, he is initiating a request to establish his copyright. You still don't give it to him, or you won't accept it, the thing would be clear right away and any doubt would be eliminated and there wouldn't be a need to put this in point 1), if there was a procedural error or something like that, that you accepted Dr. Masic's amendment. This someone comes, the applicant requests, confirms his copyright in front of the court, protects them, comes and says: I am the one and the one, and what's on the market, what's a clean plagiarism, it's a pure crime that someone did. Please, go ahead, you are in charge, or it is your obligation under the law to do it, and you are telling him now – you can do it, but you have to have money. Em's suffered enormous damage and he doesn't know who he is, and he can't investigate any amount of this pirated copy has come into our country, you're still making him lay down bank guarantees for you. And with all that, if he doesn't prove it, and it's very common cases that the competent courts, the Trade Court finds out in favor of the one who's been dealing with the crime, not the one who's the authentic author of some piece, whether it's a book or a song, music, it doesn't matter, you tell him that he's going to end up paying for it. It's an amazing vicious circle, and these people are just gonna give up. You know, now someone can just think here from the MPs in the O.R. to think like that -- well, it's easy for these big music stars, they make so much money in concerts, they have all kinds of gigs, so if that happens, they can pay for it and make a guarantee. The question is why do they do it at all and who are we to determine or speculate with who makes what money, if he pays taxes here in the country on a regular basis, and if he has an audience of his own even though he has a pass. Why do these people do that? You know, when they get involved in such a project... Here, I know a particular case, but I'm not going to name it, it doesn't matter, it's mostly that story: Bulgaria or China or somewhere where in millions of copies of these pirate editions, this authorized house or author is going to start a procedure, and now he has to pass the money, even with all that procedure, he's barely finally doing any minimal damage to his copyright. This is 1:100 for the damage suffered, i.e. for the amount of pirated editions that are present on our market. And what does the bearer do directly, means the heir from the family or someone to whom that right has been transferred for certain works of our Serb giants? It occurs to someone here in this room, anyone, imagine, that the printed pieces are not printed and are not printed by any publishing house in Serbia. I personally tried to find it, and colleague Radet, Slobodan Jovanovic, you can only find it antiqueally. And now, let's say, they know a lot of people, and here I am now saying, and a lot of people who may have been interested in it before and who did it in some other way, that they don't have it, go ahead and print out the pieces of Slobodan Jovanovic. In all the bookstores, everywhere in a row, you go, sell, and then, you know, his heirs, those who are entitled to copyright, appear and say – wait, people, so as possible. You say - let's fill out this request, Articles 17 and 18. You still didn't want to accept my colleague Mašić's amendment, it would be unequivocally seen that it was an absolutely whole act, so it's not just parts, like this hohstappler and con man, this yellow Lilić wanted to hide it, so he didn't think he'd reveal it. He will not be revealed by Vojislav Seselj, who has everything in his small finger, who even when he sleeps, even though he is in the case of the Hague in the righteousness of God, knows all that he does and who is prone to deception and who is able to do what. And now, this someone shows up and you say simply – you have to lay down a guarantee, a certain deposit, I don't trust you. And until you prove you're right, and if you're wrong, you have to pay for it. This comes in a domain of insolence, Mr. Minister. The fact that you read the paper when the MPs of the SRS can't insult me at all, it's a matter of your education and your relationship, you're just a guest here. It's a long way to go, Mr. Minister, to make someone a MP. He should be the first member of a valid political party, as Stojkovic would say, that's his expression - valid, every day he rolled that expression from this pay phone, so to me, here's the rest of yesterday. If only you could be someone who's a member of the SRS, so they could choose you in the election, so they could verify your mandate so that you could work responsibly, responsibly, and honorably. Now, you're elected and you'll say you'll be Minister for that, and that's decided by the congregation majority, I don't mind. But since you've already been elected Minister, you must know that you've come here to control you and that we're some kind of supervisor compared to you as an executive official. We taught Dinkic that, you know. Once, twice he got a puck, once he came in jeans, the second time he came in a sweater, and so something optional, the third time he started to insult. It has to be disciplined. You, Mr. Minister, have not yet begun to insult yourself openly, but the way you think about these and too good arguments is something that will cost you in the election, or those who suggested you to be minister. I still don't know which political parties you're a member of. I know you're one of these factions of this yellow, once unique, option. Yesterday I thought at the moment that you were from the DS, and these say you are from the DSS; who knows whose you are, it doesn't matter, but accept this amendment to benefit those who need to protect their copyright.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26956	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The representative of the committee's proposal has adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26957	Thank you. Here, with this amendment, we are trying to seduce a little order into that part of interventionism that works, acting on request, the competent authority, or inspector. What did we propose with the amendment? Mr. Zoran Krasic suggested that Article 24 of Article 2 should be amended by informing the rightholder instead of informing him to initiate the procedure himself, he would do so on his own behalf. So, since the right holder passed a complex procedure in paragraphs 17 and 18, writing everything and everything, filling in various forms and proving that he was founded by his right and that he was injured by intellectual property, gave 15 days of time to the inspector to convince himself of what he was doing in paperwork, it was that even if there were things he could do more urgently maybe to make the inspector see, to confiscate goods, this, what and what else was suggested. So he entered into a procedure that was introduced by an inspector, a competent authority that was authorized by law to do so. Therefore, it is quite logical, if the inspection body has established and accepted the views, that it leaves no doubt expressed through Article 22 in which a potentially damaged rightholder will even have to pay for the bank's stock; it is taken in advance if, God forbid, his request is unfounded. Then the question is, in principle, what we were saying, whether the inspector was insecure, this one was giving false information, what is it then, if there is yet to be a likelihood that his request will be assessed as unfounded or as insufficiently accurate, incomplete, what is in the reason for taking money in Article 22. So, if you oblige the inspector to initiate the procedure himself in front of the court in person, and not to bother him, and indeed within a strange short period of 15 days, unlike the direct reason when he acts directly and not on official duty where he has 15 + 15 days... So, for 15 days, em has to run himself, I need to run an organ, so if he doesn't make the court's decision, then of course what's going to happen - he'll be guilty, his bank guarantee will be taken, the money will be taken. Whoever plagiarized it, copied it, cut it, stole the professional work or literature, misquoted it, and so on, it will turn out right again. Secondly, when I look at the reasons and reasons for the law being passed, you have already put this law, as you have baptized it, in order to quote, in order to create a legal basis for the competent authorities and organisations of Serbia to enforce laws at the level of the state community that protects the right to intellectual property, i.e. that citizens and economic operators are protected from having to go to court disputes and private criminal charges alone. So, you wanted to avoid it, and in the law you proposed the same thing again: that the rightholder must run everything, despite the fact that it's all clear to the inspector, he started the procedure, no more dilemmas, 15 days of reviewing the data he received from the holder and now he says, "Here you go, maybe you're damaged, go to court, in 15 days, make me the final decision of the court." He particularly talks about when this final decision comes, how long it takes, how up-to-date the court, will he be able to convince the judge of the correctness of his position, but the inspector gets out of the game. This drawout from the game is also financially supported, nothing will cost the state if the inspector is wrong, because this one gave a bank guarantee, nothing to anyone, will tell – you didn't fill out the form well, someone overlooked something one way or another. Only, an extraordinary opportunity that can be greatly abused on some occasions that will easily be created for those who are prone to manipulate laws and to find ways to abuse that fact, that circumstance, and therefore that the holder of the copyright of intellectual property is ultimately damaged. Because, of course, and everything to do, he can't expect a 15-day court ruling on a final act. Why, for example, is it not conditional for 15 more days to be given to them, why should we put in a different position those who go on official duty and those who go on demand? It's just incomprehensible. The man who has found and filed the request himself goes through a slightly more rigorous procedure; here the inspector goes alone and then hunts down on the ground something, obviously it's a suspicious thing and says – we're running a procedure, so here you are looking for the badges or some other books, or you who print the textbooks are looking for whether someone copied you, you have 15 days, so the court knows what it is, another 15 days, but turn around in good time. When? When to ask the inspector for another 15 days. He's not standing. When they don't get a decision 15, it's day 16, because in that day two deadlines stand out, as things stand out. Of course, you may have other laws in which you speak about deadlines, how long it will take, but it is certainly unclear and unfair for those who guarantee personal means of conducting the procedure by applying themselves to have only 15 days. In order to change that by the time we've stayed on those 15 days, we're going to get the inspector to press charges himself against the court, which means that the inspector is doing something fundamentally from what he found in the documents there. So, why would they hesitate to have the state authority in front of a state court, how did you baptize courts in state and para-states, start a dispute? It's enough that the intellectual property bearer is proof from point 18... There's a lot of evidence that's been numbered, and when he gets them all together and gives them up neatly and for 15 days, the inspector thinks about them, scales and checks and takes the measures he wants to take, no one defends him, and then he really thinks it's the right thing to do. It would be very fair and correct for these people not to put them in further procedure. That would be the point of Mr Krasic's amendment intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26958	Minister Parivodić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26959	So, in the amendment submitted to Article 24(2) by Mr Krasic, the SRS, Mr Krasic believes he is the competent authority, i.e. an inspection obliged to initiate proceedings for the protection of intellectual property rights before a competent court within 15 days. The explanation for this amendment is lapidarian, short, core and me completely illogical: "I hope the protection of intellectual property is in the interest of the competent state authorities above all. "So the market inspector has the greatest interest in the Serbian state not to show up counterfeit products, not to use computer programs without a license, not to appear forgeries of textbooks etc. This is a completely incomprehensible attitude to me. Why would it be in the interest of that inspector above the interest of an intellectual property rightholder? This amendment is so much more absurd that he orders that the inspector to conduct apparently litigation and litigation. Imagine a Serbian inspector who runs 186 litigation procedures parallelly, the state pays taxes for these procedures, these procedures are effective, after two or three years, and so our inspectors are dealing with litigation, in fact becoming some kind of public defender, no longer going to the market to see what's going on. The law ordered the inspector in Article 12(3) to submit an application to the competent public prosecutor, or to the infringement authority. We felt that his function of initiating procedures in front of other organs was to be completed. Mr Krasic believes that our inspectors should argue and that it is in their personal interest that they argue before regular and commercial courts and that the state pays or that they personally pay fees for this litigation. It's simple, it's a shocking example of this kind of intervention, one indifference, amazing, shocking. I'm confused with this kind of improvisation. Anyway, since of course I don't accept this amendment, I'm going to give the final word to this law. The Belief of Radeta, from the place: you can't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26960	We have another amendment, Minister, and a little patience. Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. You've got nine and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26961	I'll be much more efficient, Mr. Mikhailovich, you don't have to, just enjoy yourself, Mr. Mikhailovich. I was just finishing something with The Hague and I hear the minister come out and he's digging up. Let's see what the amendment is about. Mr. Minister has given such good criticism of this law that I give him credit. Mr. Minister, two hours ago, I tried to convince you that he wasn't a good member of your 12th position and the first opening sentence. You went out and you said I didn't know anything, that it was a very good sentence. That sentence reads... Of course, we've been having a little fun with these laws and amendments, obviously to run out, to see what it is, to let the public know what it is. You see how the minister defends Article 12 and attacks the amendment to Article 24 where Article 12 is prescribed. You'll see now, Mr. Minister. That's Chapter 1. It's official duty. It refers to inspection bodies that do some work under official duty. What are they doing on official duty? It says – the competent authority (it is those six inspection bodies), when it directly determines... The inspector personally at the scene makes sure. What did that inspector see for himself? That the right of intellectual property has been violated. On the grounds of Article 12, I said it was impossible. You said it was completely obvious. Yeah, that's how it was, it's a little funny, but that's what the minister said -- you touch, you see it's not a "nake." That's the situation. Then I warned you and said – Mr. Minister, when the inspection is doing a job for which it is competent, which is inspection control, it is not simple surveillance, but inspection, there is a big difference between administrative, inspection, etc., it acts by some rules and determines some facts. At the time, I told you that the tax inspector, I even quoted to you a member of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration where it was said to exist next to the office and so-called field control carried out by tax inspectors, means, in a sales facility, anywhere the traffic of goods is done and where they suspect that someone has suppressed tax or illegally traffic. They come and determine some facts, but they can determine the facts about traffic, about the legality of that traffic. They can't determine the facts of intellectual property rights. I can't. Just touch it, it doesn't matter. All inspections are carried out under official duty, no matter how many people report something, it's not a request, it's a simple application, usually a notice which obliges the inspector to carry out the procedure. Then I told you that this is pointless, that you need to protect intellectual property to leave that law there, and that the relevant provisions that can help protect intellectual property are primarily in the function of controlling the traffic of goods and services, etc. Don't get into that stuff, because it can't, and you said it couldn't. You got it. You predicted a special procedure and then I reminded you that 12, 13 and 14 members make one whole, and then this second one that goes to the owner's request, or the author is something else, another situation. Then I told you, it's not good for the author to use inspection bodies as his means of proof for another court case. You've challenged all this for me. I've been waiting for you in article 24, where I said – well, if it's official duty to do so, why not protect his copyright by official duty. Why did I write that? To throw you out of the picture. You went out and attacked the amendment to Article 24 and annulled Article 12. Shockingly, I watched it there, it was all recorded, but we had a bit of a shortcut to the Hague, so I said, let me go downstairs and say that 12 and 24 not only is the difference 1:2, but it has some logical connection. You've disrupted this logical relationship. You've completely disrupted that logical relationship. With this amendment, we just wanted to show how unserious the government was when it proposed a law like this. You've come out nicely, I've been rubbing my hands up and I've said - great, attack the amendment to Article 24 and I'd attack that amendment on Article 24. Now, let me tell you right now, the goal was to come here on your own and admit that what's in article 12 and the previous members is not good. Of course I'm grateful that you denied yourself, denied the whole concept. In principle, when there was talk of this law, we drew attention, but then you didn't read the newspaper and the computers: 126 and everything passes. That's a strong argument. It is the strongest argument in Serbia's multi-party system. Who has 126, has everything. Just to remind you, there is no difference in behavior from Bozovic's when he said – if I have 70 votes we will declare that the Earth is fourth. So, between that attitude of Bozovic, which I assume you have also criticised, because every reasonable judge had to criticise it, but you just confirmed that reason. It's 126 for you. Since we're about to end, and I have a few pages to finish there, so I won't be here until the end, I have one thing to tell you. The worst thing that could have been planted by the authors is this bill. Now let me explain. This bill will selectively protect plagiarists and those who steal other people's ideas and other people's works. Why? Because it enters a kind of galaxy of unspeakable provisions. With Article 12, I have drawn your attention – some traffic control inspectors can now choose whether to apply the provisions of their home regulations where they are authorised to control the legality of the traffic of goods and services, or to refer to this and this law. If the work of the chosen one is found, not you, but Dinkic, for the record, he has his sponsors in this mob... I get the impression when you come to explain some bill of law that someone who sits with you in the government is a terrible fraud. Why? They think you're a doctor of legal science, and you'll explain this best, so you have an eloquence, so you might as well confuse the MPs and the public with some expressions, titles, etc. The others are finishing the job. The Dinkic is in coalition with those who are making pirated CDs, proven to be known, two criminal charges have been filed. They've all got it right away. How are you going to protect the author from his forgeries? How are you going to protect Pretty Brenna, explain to me, Minister, why Beautiful Brenna would protect herself under this law, it takes this law to protect you, to protect her part of the smuggling and that what she smuggles does not fall under the influence of this law. If anyone else smuggles hers, then Dinkic will be hired. Then he'll be hired. This is not the law, and something else to tell you, now you can say, since we have a special tactics for you, we have radicals. This law has no constitutional basis. Who has the constitutional basis? The law...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26962	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26963	... The Law on the Protection of Intellectual Rights, the Law on the Protection of Copyright. He has a constitutional basis. If you wanted to hire an inspection, then you should have built up that law. You here have atypical provisions...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26964	Mr. Krassic...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26965	Two more seconds just.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26966	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26967	... atypical inspection order. I said a moment ago, and you've moved lightly, when any inspector temporarily confiscates some goods, items, assets used, or makes a solution to the temporary ban on carrying out any action that is disputed, but let it be, since it exists in the legal system, on the finality of that solution, the goods are permanently taken away. You are the institute that exists in all inspections, in the case of tax, market and others, when it comes to intellectual property, you have turned that final confiscation of inspections can only be decided when the final or judicial decision of the court to which it was executed is granted, protected by copyright. That's impossible. Here, one administrative procedure, inspection depends on the outcome of a court case. Galimatias. For what? To be selectively protected by just some. I gave you one example, all these commercials that spin on our televisions, that come from these three media houses whose head is these yellowish, Gilas, that idol, the second and third, etc., these are the biggest plagiarists. But there is no one to persecute them, no one to persecute them. They'll be protected by this law, and they won't be prosecuted. Thank you very much for challenging the amendments we have submitted to prove that the whole law has been missed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26968	The word has the minister of economic relations with abroad, Mr. Parivodic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This reminds me of that discussion, which was particularly fun for me, with Mr. Krasic, where we talked about what the mortgage was put on, so Mr. Krasic claimed that the mortgage was placed on the facility, like a roof or a chimney being placed on, and I claimed that the mortgage was placed on property rights. It took this debate a long time, and I always like to help Mr. Krasic clear up the concepts. Now I'm going to make another contribution to clearing up the concepts. Mr Krasic says to protect the author from the author, to protect himself, which in fact explains that authors, let's say, discs issue 2,000 discs legally and that's what they report, and another 10,000 are illegal. Everything the author has betrayed has been betrayed with his consent, whether it's legal or illegal, and therefore there is no, Mr. Krasic, absolutely no violation of copyright. It's a tax offense. So whenever the author issues an edition with his consent, there is no copyright violation, because he is the author and he can issue 100,000 copies. As far as he's going to report to the IRS, it's a tax matter, and it could be a tax offense or possibly a criminal offense, so you're not chasing the notion of copyright and tax offense. That's one cleanup I wanted to give you. The second clearing, where you are also confused, is the relationship between the measure that the inspector is carrying out and which in particular leads to a certain result on the market, which is the confiscation of goods under Article 12 and the initiation of any procedures that the inspector is carrying out. The measure is the essence, the chief activity of the inspector, and in order for him to do this work effectively, he, on the spot, resists those things for which, based on his personal judgment... And that, unlike your opinion, is very simple, you underestimate our inspectors, every normal inspector on the scene recognizes a bunch of counterfeits that can be found on our market. I don't know why you think it's so complicated if the kids figure it out, what's a fake, and what's the original. So he's got to be on the spot to absorb those things he's estimating with strong conviction that they've violated someone's intellectual property rights. If he had to turn to someone for any situation where a slave, which apparently offends intellectual property, would have to turn to someone and make a request, this one would have to flee from the street long ago, thus losing the full efficiency of the measures that the inspector should take to protect intellectual property. On the other hand, I return to the fact that you have actually suggested that inspectors conduct an unlimited number of litigation procedures and that the state pays unlimitedly and litigation to itself, from one item to pay the budgets, because it is in the interest of the inspector. I'm still in shock with that proposal, although you're trying to represent it as a single game that you wanted to get the rabbit out of the woods.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26970	I'm obliged to read something. National MP Natasa Micic has applied to be read, as she denies: "I demand that the statement of MP Momir Markovic be denied, given to the Assembly's speaker at the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session since 18 May 2006, that my identification card is in the registered electronic voting system". That is what Natasa Micic's Messenger gave. I assume someone was sitting in a place where Mrs. Natasa Micic used to sit. Mr. Markovic is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the other day I saw Natasha Micic's card in person. I haven't seen her in the Assembly in a long time, but the other day I saw Natasha Micic's card in her place. Therefore, it is neither the first nor the last time, until the elections, that not only Natasa Micic, but some others, their cards will appear, and they are not here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26972	Mr. Markovic, bring the free card here next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26973	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm receiving a salary as a National MP, not as an official of the Assembly. So either you ask or you go and get the card.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26974	Mr. Markovic, I'm telling you this because I doubt it, because you just wouldn't deny it if he did something like that. Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26975	Mr. Vice President, Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, was not in office today and has ordered you to replace him. You were obliged to warn Minister Parivodic, according to the Rules of Procedure, that he was acting in accordance with dignity and that he respected the Parliament's dignity, not in a way, because it is a condition for him to define medical experts, he is in shock, excited... What do I care what your impressions are, Mr. Parisian? You can't talk like that, and you can't talk like that, and you can't talk like that, and you can't talk like that, and you can't talk like that, and you can't talk like that. Here, he's not listening now. Wednesday, did it get a little drunk? Yes, it is. Go back to the bench, sit down so I can talk to the minister, I got it. (President: Please treat your colleagues with respect. ) It's an appreciation, and it's not an respect for me to fall in here in front of a man's nose, to be home to the minister while I tell him about the order in the Serbian Parliament, where he came as a guest. Mr. Minister, you can say that this is not in line with your concept, that you have a vision like this or a vision like that. What kind of mortgage law you have proposed to us, and it has come into effect, is surprised and baptized by builders in Serbia, and by banks they laugh at you with a ugliness. Find me a bank that will approve a mortgage on a building permit. Such banks are still missing in Serbia. Rearn by the banks here and see how it's someone who doesn't have a roof over his head, who should come and build, with a building permit to show up and ask for a mortgage on a built-up facility. None of these banks that give up housing loans, these mortgage loans, they don't want to do it. Now you're setting us up again some law that has nothing to do with the real situation, twisting the facts, Mr. Minister. On a specific case and on the mafia business of one person known in the world of esthera and of a minister who is connected to it, Mr Zoran Krasic spoke, and you talk about other things. Do you have the right, Mr. Minister, to record the Rollingstones CD and the Beatles? You don't. Neither did those who did so in Bulgaria for some domestic authors or others. That customs officer who tampered with the goods, and in millions of copies, those discs were on their way, didn't even see if anyone had copyright. You just said we're underestimating inspectors. We don't underestimate them at all. They got much better conditions for work when Zoran Krasic was minister. He was a trade minister in the most difficult conditions, God forbid that time would come again, but Serbia, in such conditions, during his ministry, is a modest man so he won't tell you what every Serbian radical was like, was a country and ministers had the opportunity to do their job, go to the field and do inspection work. Now you tell us nicely that the inspectors won't just do it, we underestimate them, they can recognize what a fake is. You weren't in the O.R., I told your young colleague, not at all, Mr. Minister, so much today are the copies of these originals that even the good acquaintances of a particular brand, whether it's a wardrobe, perfume, barely being able to recognize, let alone the inspectors who have poor salaries and who never in their life had a "pradino" purse, "mildness" blouse or "snake" shoes and say – I'm an expert and I found it. (President: You're out of time. ) Here, Mr. Mihailovich, I'm finishing up, but really warn the minister next time that his shocking impressions about the law are kept, then let him tell someone else, not us. Just talk to the argument here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26976	I'm obliged to tell you that I don't really warn you when you're being offensive and I don't think it's fair to ask for anything more than you do yourself. You've often dealt with insults from the scene, but since we're not at school, we won't be reminded of every sentence, and you're asking the minister to behave in the best way. Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26977	Now, since you are more than insolent, you do not respect the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman, under Article 28. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask that in the day of voting, the National Assembly declare that you have, above all, violated the dignity of the National Assembly in such a way as to address me and the MPs to whom you have given such an explanation. Mr. Mihailovic, you are the grandson of the famous and famous General Draža Mihailovic, but obviously in a political sense, a complete political dilettor raised you, and this is Vuk Draskovic. As he raised you, you are in such a party now, so is his party. Therefore, don't lecture me or anyone from the Serbian Radical Party briefing. We bring a nice education from home, that's what's basic, but in a political sense we've passed on to today's greatest Serbian hero, but surely the greatest legal and political practitioner of Professor Vojislav Seselj. You are better off keeping your mouth shut and leading the congregation the way the Rules of Procedure allows you, not protecting those who behave inappropriately, whether it's a minister or someone else who's collateral damage on the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26978	In the day of the vote, the congregation will certainly declare itself, and the viewers and the voters will be made aware of what kind of education it brings from the house. Thank you. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26979	Mr. Mikhailovich, I'll start with a quote, you know how it goes with the Rules of Procedure. "The proposed solutions," Mr. Parivodic, I read the law that you defend in the Assembly, "will affect all citizens and business entities that have intellectual property rights, because it will allow full protection of intellectual property rights by the executive authorities. The legal framework for intellectual property protection will be significantly improved. According to the current situation, the holders of these rights must themselves be protected through litigation and private criminal charges, and this law will allow for the direct involvement of the executive authority, when the competent authorities assess that such rights have been violated, on official duty or at the request of the rightholder. "Any reasonable person can understand these three sentences. The current situation is criticised here, and the existing state is – for the protection of intellectual property rights, the author must address the court. This bill, which is an analysis of the effects, which the government wrote, guarantees to the authors that the executive authority will save them from these sufferings and problems, that they do not need to appear in order to protect the rights of intellectual property to courts, will already... You want me to read it again? Let me read again: "The legal framework for intellectual property protection will be significantly improved. According to the current situation, the holders of these rights must themselves be protected through judicial disputes and private criminal charges", and this is today, "and this law will allow the direct involvement of the executive authority, when the competent authorities assess that there has been a violation of such law, by official duty or at the request of the rightholders. "Listen to me. I have waited for you again, the following sentence goes: "This will directly improve legal certainty, i.e. the position of the rightholder, which in Serbia will lead to increased domestic and foreign investment in transport and goods production, as well as the provision of services... ". So, please, you talked until half an hour ago about how this law solves everything, and from half an hour ago you're talking about how nothing works. When the amendment came to article 24, you changed your story. When that amendment came, you annuled everything that was the effects of this new bill. Secondly, you have freely approached the problem of how free the author is, whether 500 copies will put into legal traffic, and 20,000 pieces in illegal traffic; you have probably spoken from the point of view of his rights as the author, but you have forgotten about the state. So now I have to tell you, the inspection bodies exist first and only because the state is fulfilling its constitutional function. More widely, there are citizens and their interests, but above all, the inspection needs to ensure that the state's affairs are carried out in accordance with the law. And she's the only one who has one more authority over all the other organs that can temporarily do something that would belong to the court, but that temporary is caused by a situation of urgency, necessity, etc. However, you in Article 12. You are referring to the draft law on competent authorities, and you are referring to an inspector who has already found that there has been an infringement of the right of intellectual property. How can he determine that there has been an infringement of the right of intellectual property, when he is capable of being able to base paper only to determine whether there is something in legal or illegal traffic? You want to be funny, but you can't be funny. The inspection organs don't use these things under this pretext, because I'm going to tell you one thing now. If, for example, Leprechaun Brena as the author (the question is whether she is the author, but it doesn't matter) agree with the Press Comer that he will pass 500 copies of a CD legally and 10,000 pieces illegally, and the one from the Press Comer (I think he was in New Serbia, the one Grujic, and he's also a criminal) cheats beautiful Brena and Lepa Brena more quickly organizes summers on the Montenegrin coast with Mladjan Dinkic in the same house and says – Junior, brother, he deceived me, I know that there are some discs without documentation in the trades. It's not an injury. It's an abuse. Then Junior sends some of his chosen ones and they close the press commercial. For what? They have a temporary ban on doing business, and for what? Because Leprechaun Brena was injured as an author, and the inspector found that there was an infringement of the right of intellectual property, and there was a fundamental violation of the regulation on the transport of goods and services. That's what you're going to do with this bill. Gentlemen, you're protecting yourselves. They've had their problems so far when they write an inspection, so they say, "Please, they're selling my goods in that store and that store." Then some inspector says, "Well, let's go see, and some say, "I don't know, it's settled in court." That's what he said. That's what he did to you in court. He was right, just so you know. Remember, inspectors, whoever you send from the author to the court, you're right. If you follow this law, someone will abuse you again, as you are constantly being abused.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26980	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Finance Committee, tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 25a be added after article 25a. The representative of the committee's proposal has adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the chairman has instructed me to do some other work, I will try to explain this amendment, and then I will take a break, I'm afraid they won't make me pick up these papers during the break, as a national MP in the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, the MP, Mrs Pop-Lazic, on behalf of the SRS, requests that in Article 26(2), the "requirer" be replaced by the words "the competent authority", and the word "possitor" be replaced by the words "the competent authority". In order for the matter to be clear, I will read Article 2 of this article: "The applicant is obliged to compensate for the damage suffered by the person from whom the goods have been taken away because of the unfounded retention of the goods that occurred at the request of the applicant." Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic requests that the applicant be asked, in this case, to protect the copyright and to whom the bill requires a certain bank guarantee or deposit, and on this basis the goods have been taken away, the procedure has taken place, the procedure has taken place... And, thank God, our courts are what they are, because if they couldn't have all these plagiarists, all that bofl stuff that only has a sticker or a sewn sign, they wouldn't have been able to show up all those books that are signed, there wouldn't be anything that could go wrong with the owner and intellectual property, the owner of the stamps, the owner of the stamps, etc. In this case, the law requires the applicant to request, so the owner who submitted the request, to bear the damage caused by the confiscation of the goods or the suspension of the goods. If the owners protect themselves, then what do they need the state for? If the state regulates this by law, then it has to be done by the end. The state will determine whether it's plagiarism or whether it's an original brand. The state will determine whether the tax is paid or not, whether it is smuggled goods or not. The state must also bear responsibility in this case, because if the author is damaged, by the very fact that the goods from which he has no use appeared on the market, or suspected of being damaged, and everything happens in accordance with this law, we will eventually make the same author to compensate for the damage to whoever brought it or smuggled it. That is why I believe that the state must stand behind this and that this amendment in the day of voting is passed by the MPs, to press the green button.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26982	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 30 of the amendment is based on Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 35a be added after article 35a. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The committee's representative, at the Committee meeting, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Milan Parivodić, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, we held another detailed debate in the Serbian Parliament, about a law that should make a strong contribution to the regulation of Serbia's market, to the provision of intellectual property owners' rights, in one way that is effective, which is recognizable in the world and which puts us in order of civilised countries to protect intellectual property. We believe that this is very important, that this will remain remembered as a result that this assembly has done and given to its people and therefore, after this exhaustive debate, I urge you to positively assess this law in the day of voting and introduce it into our legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26984	I'm closing the motion for a bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I set a break, we have yet another confirmation of the mandate of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I suggest that I establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to allow their participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Saša Vitosevic and Vesni Raca-Raradsavljevic, elected from the election list G17 plus - Miroljub Labus. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission, the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Saša Vitosevic and Vesni Raca-Radosavljevic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. I've been setting a break for an hour. We'll continue our work at 2:45.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26985	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again a good day. We'll continue our work after the break. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE MARKET OF HARTY FROM THE COURT AND OTHER FINANCES INSTRUMENTS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Sanja Čeković, Zoran Krasić, Veroljub Arsić, Nikola Lalić, Vjerica Radeta, Nenad Mitrović, Ljubomir Kragović, Vojislav Milajić, Darko Glić, Stefan Zankov, Goran Dunjic, Radiša Ilić, Dragutin Perić, Vitomir Milošević, Natasa Jovanovic, Milovanovic and Milovan Radovan Radić, Ivan Radić, Zoran Mirović, Smović, Žeto Perić, Bore Čavić, Božidar Koprivica, Petar Jožić, Petar Živić, Zlatan Živović and Dragan Živović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Stevnović and Milović Žović, Momir Žović, Momir Žović, Žalić, Drag, Dragović, Drag, Drag, Dragnović, Dragnović, Žović, Žović, Žalić, Žač On the basis of Article 146, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected, as an untimely, amendments by Parliamentarian Suzanne Grubjesic to the article. 113th and 255th. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before that, two notices. First, it is important for the schedule of time and participation in the debate of the MPs: on the basis of Articles 85, paragraphs 1 and 4, today it will only be until the debate on the details of this point is completed. Tomorrow, on an extremely Friday, the Assembly will hold a debate on details and most likely and on Monday, the Assembly will discuss, particularly according to a member of the Rules of Procedure, as it is Monday, details. Also, due to the pre-determined state obligations that the president of the Assembly was informed of, I asked and the government was additionally empowered, in order to adopt the amendments, by another minister for the emergency adoption of the amendments to the next four laws. So you know, it's authorized, you'll get written, of course, those who haven't won yet, Minister Predrag Bubalo. At the same time, since the legislative activity is not only from the moment of entry into the procedure, preparation, adoption, writing of amendments, but also preparation, public debate and introduction to all those covered by a law, it is my obligation, and I insisted that representatives of local self-government, who have been present for three hours now in the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities, address the finance minister and explain the legal proposals which concern improving the financing of local self-government. I ask the finance minister to participate in the meeting, and all other representatives of the ministry, together with the authorised minister, if there is a need to accept the amendments, of course participate in the work, because of the dignity of the National Assembly and the effectiveness of the adoption of the amendments. Thank you for your patience for this much clarification. Now we move on to the first amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. And, just one little announcement: in the meantime, you will be given reports from today's cabinet session where some of the amendments have been accepted, but they will arrive in due time, so I will read. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, then we should have waited, as far as the debate on details is concerned, for the People's MPs to be delivered the Government's opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26987	Excuse me, Mr. Arsic, don't worry, the president already has his notices, but according to the Rules of Procedure, he will when they come to order. It's not the first ten, it's all good.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26988	The opinion is that I have the right to criticise the government's opinion as well. So now it's my parliamentary right to be abolished in a certain way. As regards Article 3. Bill proposal, MP Zoran Krasic asked that article to change. The text provided for in the amendment is: "The Commission shall monitor the application of this law and carry out other tasks in accordance with this law." Now let's look at what the proposal is, that is, the Government of the Republic of Serbia: "The Commission is overseeing the application of this law and carrying out other tasks in accordance with this law, the law governing investment funds, the law governing the takeover of stock companies and the other law governing the business of charters of value traded on an organised market." Now, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, except in the beginning of Article 3, all this remains is air, absolute air, because there is no law governing investment funds, there is no law governing the takeover of stock companies and there are no other laws, if this law is passed, which regulates the securities market. That is the problem of the proposing or the MPs who support this assembly majority. So, by not accepting this amendment, we make a commitment that we must declare these laws. The very proposal for a law on investment funds indicates that the Commission is concerned about the implementation of the law, the proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies states that the Commission again takes care of the implementation of the law, the law on action societies and the law on the investment fund. Now here we have a law on securities of value, where laws are mentioned; so you could at least write—and other laws. When will they be brought? We don't know. Will it be brought? We don't know, but you're leaving for some future solution. So this part, asked by MP Zoran Krasic to delete this amendment too, or the government should accept. I don't see any reason why. Basically, it doesn't change the concept of the law itself. In these other two proposals, those powers which the Securities Commission has remain if these laws, as well as this, are adopted by the assembly majority. However, it has been a longer period of time that the government's practice and even the two previous ones, as of October 5th, suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is being humiliated in a certain way. It is being humiliated because the legislator predestines the vote of a legislative proposal. I would understand that you have put this in the process, that there is a more normal Rules of Procedure which would read that the law is adopted in principle, and then it goes into discussion about the details, that it is adopted, and that the law is adopted in general, and then some proposal that is after that law, and that it is related to this law, can stand – it will be regulated, because it is only formality to publish something in the "Official Messenger" and it is formality when it will enter into force. However, you advance to force the National Assembly to accept some formalities that are exclusively its right. That's the problem. In this way, the Assembly becomes an instrument of executive authority. In this case, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorised representative of the proposer, Mladjan Dinkic. By rejecting this amendment... I asked the government's opinion, the chairman said the first 10 amendments in the government's opinion were not accepted. So the government is once again in a certain way humiliating the MPs by taking away their right to do so. These are the problems and these congregational majority who support such a government. It should be made clear to those you support that you are above them, that it is you who can change the law, that it is the MPs who essentially pass the laws, that the National Assembly is above the executive authority. Or you just think it's your part in that part that you'll just push the buttons when it's voting day. When it comes to these business opportunities, i.e. the Rules of Procedure, which would allow a more normal debate when it comes to the laws, there is again the Serbian Parliament has humiliated itself since October 5th, when you first started to limit who could discuss certain laws, you have limited the time, you have reduced the quorum to one third, and now you have come to the fact that it is enough for the chairman to sit, one MP in the hall, because it is extremely difficult for you to sit in the hall, to listen to your fellow Members of Parliament. Because you've been allowed to be humiliated in this way, that's why they're giving you such legal suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26989	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the next amendment, just an explanation. Of course, because of the dignity of the National Assembly and the role of the legislation, the MPs of this assembly have adopted a Rules of Procedure that makes it possible for even one MP... And as it depends on him and must be heard by government representatives, both the public and colleagues in accordance with technical possibilities. On the other hand, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the four laws to be discussed is only one of the urgent procedures, which is which we are now discussing in particular, and it is put on the agenda of the Assembly by the votes of MPs. Article 163(1) states - unless the committees deliver a report, i.e. the Government has an opinion on the draft law, the bill will be discussed without these reports or opinions. But I have informed, opinions are given and will arrive, but I do not want to prevent any way because of the importance of MPs who have written amendments wherever they say that the Committee has not accepted the amendment, whatever the government's opinion is, the MP has to explain it if he wants to, because the Assembly will in that case plead unless the Committee meets in the meantime and changes its mind. You know it rarely happens. So, simply, these are the basics that I used to manage when I was giving notice at the beginning. Now it will be your amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I like the way the Chairman interprets the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can debate even if the government's opinion is not delivered to the MPs, especially because the law does not have to propose a government, it can propose a MP, a group of MPs and groups of citizens, so the government can block the adoption of such a law if it does not give its opinion. When it comes to the fact that the government itself is a proposing and does not deliver its opinion in time, then MPs, in accordance with such a procedure of government, should return the law to the government, so let it see what happens to it. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure anymore. In Parliamentism at all, there are rules that are regulated by the Rules of Procedure. There are rules that are unwritten and in societies that have a developed parliamentary system, more developed and older than our own. This procedure of the government as executive authorities is humiliating for the National Assembly. Or, we simply don't want to continue the session until the government sits down, consider our amendments to her bill. That's the problem. This is how we talk now. We'll be delivered. Being, I can only say that it was no problem for you at all to schedule a session of the 30th on Sunday before a state holiday, such as that, on May 1st, that MPs would have to come back and study the legislative proposals quickly, but well, that's the manner of a government like this. It was likely again on the proposal of the government of the Republic of Serbia, calling for this session. Article 17. refers to the trading of securities of value and currencies that can be used: "The records of values issued by domestic legal entities and traded in the Republic are expressed in dinars. "Subject 2 is said: "Debt charters of values issued by persons referred to in Article 16(1), 2) and (3) of this law and debt charters of values issued by foreign legal entities may be expressed in foreign currency. "If we go back to Article 16. The draft law point 1) means that securities of value in foreign currency may be issued by legal persons based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic, the Autonomous Province, the local self-government unit, legal persons, beneficiaries of budgetary resources and the organisation of compulsory social security, in accordance with the law, the NBS. So, everybody. Everyone in the domestic paper market can trade in foreign currency. And it is further said: "For the issue of securities from values expressed in foreign currency, the issuer referred to in Article 16(1) of this law is obliged to obtain prior consent from the NBS, in accordance with the regulation of the National Bank of Serbia. The issue of securities from the value expressed in the foreign currency of the issuer referred to in Article 16(2) of this Act shall be subject to the provisions of the laws governing public debt. The issue of securities expressed in the foreign currency of the issuer referred to in Article 16(3)", which is NBS, "this law applies the provisions of the law governing the organisation and jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia. "So the National Bank will issue its own consent to trade securities of value on the domestic market in foreign currency. "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes closer conditions for granting consent under the 3rd article's stance. "It also gives consent to itself and prescribes closer conditions for issuing securities of value on the domestic market in foreign currency. Now here to say - in the process of publishing, it is arranged by general administrative procedure etc., means these provisions which are proposed for erasure. I understand if foreign legal entities and foreign organisations are willing to trade securities of value on the domestic market. I understand their wish, I understand the wish of the legislator of this law. I think it might be that way that he might come into a situation to increase foreign reserves, increase the volume of capital that would circulate on the domestic market, etc. However, I cannot understand the proponent as to why it leaves the possibility that the domestic legal persons of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia are trading securities of value on the domestic market in foreign currency. Of course, knowing what you are, it immediately raises the question of what is the aim of a legislator of such a law. In view of the fact that the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia do not have to deal with securities of value in the stock market and in the vanbersan market, and even with certain acts, the government can put the provisions of the law out of force, and this is regulated in one of the next members, a simple question arises – who are you going to sell charters of value expressed in foreign currency? It's not a mandatory public offering, it's not a short prospectus, it's not a mandatory prospectus. Who are you going to sell these securities to? Whoever comes into possession of those securities of value has really made a good business move. So, it will have a currency clause and its interest is guaranteed and there is no risk at all, in such a situation as it is, for another period of time; whoever purchases charters of the value of the Republic of Serbia will not be at any risk unless he buys in dinars, so that interest is less than any inflation, dinars etc. This group of privileged ones, and later on about them, which are these, will require a certain solid currency to deal with such trade. We'll tie it to the euro, to the Swiss franc, and they started trading in Swiss francs. We'll tie it to the U.S. dollar, provided America doesn't war anywhere at that time, and that's when that currency falls. You'll already have close friends and you'll be buying records of values broadcast by the Republic under privileged conditions. The question arises, then, why is the obligation of all other economic operators in all other financial transactions, and these are not securities of value, to have an obligation to trade exclusively in dinars. Securities of value are goods, like any other, and it has its value, based on the law of supply and demand, its value is quoted, and why all other goods then have no possibility. In such a way as the securities market is organised, the dinar will come second. No one else in the securities market will benefit from the value of a dinar, because whoever has the money and the ability to trade securities of value to seek exclusive equivalent in foreign currency, for the money that has been invested. In this money, he will have to be paid dividends and he will have to be paid other incomes he makes, and probably also fees from other brokerage houses, stock exchanges, etc. If the dinar comes to another plan, by adopting a law like this without accepting this amendment, it's absolutely certain he will, then why insisting on such a restrictive monetary policy on preserving the course of the dinar, so that someone boasts about it? On the other hand, we demote potential exporters because of the unfavourable price of the euro compared to the dinar. Where's the export? Well, the state is going one step further and establishing some Export Promotion Agency, and all the serious states that are holding to themselves and trying to make their economy equal on the market with other world economies have given certain subsidies. We don't even have it, we don't even give subsidies to businesses. It's only important to write laws that are in the interest of a group that will profit, regardless of what people who wrote that something like this might have been, on the one hand, correct. One such law, Mladjan Dinkic, will, while implementing it, certainly abuse it. Let's go back to what values charters on the domestic market have been in foreign currency so far. The first thing, as soon as you came to power after October 5th, one of the promises was that within a year or two you would return the citizens to the old foreign currency savings. You came to power by some miracle and thanks to such promises. However, in addition to the envious foreign reserve, you did not do it in a more normal and civilized way, but simply put them in a position to do so through certain business banks authorised by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, then Yugoslavia. And you've been broadcasting government bonds, and these are securities of value, expressed in foreign currency. Since some of the bonds were issued in 2001 or 2002, and they come in 2007 and 2008, the people who trusted you simply had to make these bonds outside the paper market of value to sell. Even the state, the tax administration did not want to accept charters of values, which, for example, were indicated in 2006 and 2007, in that nominal value, but the state took part in the fact that only one particular group of people could profit by buying old foreign exchange bonds at 50 cents, or 50 pfenig or 50 that you already wanted for a unit of debt. So 50 pfenigs for one German brand, and they were still stamps at the time. Who made that profit? She profiled the National Savings Bank. In that story, your only argument was – it's a bank with a majority government capital. Then all of a sudden, in an extremely strange way, that state capital went to the hands of private capital, and the owners were Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. How did they buy it? Our state capital was purchased by foreign exchange reserves deposited in their banks. We allow these gentlemen to buy banks, em bought bonds of securities of value, which the state has to pay for, and they did all that with our money. That's why we don't trust Mladjan Dinkic to enforce one of these laws. I think we should stop the practice of putting our national currency on the domestic market in a different way. It may be a programme of all serious political parties to Serbia and the state union in the EU, but if we continue this way, every year your authorities mean three years of delays to join EU countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26991	Thank you. Do any other parliamentary groups or any other MPs want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I remind everyone once again, and I see that two different things are simply mixed in political debates. I thank everyone for their responsibilities, but what the MPs vote on is being held, and their amendments, if they have voted for an emergency procedure, the government must... Perhaps you have not heard enough of the clarification, and at the first session after the government's principle debate, at the request of the Assembly, has considered and given an opinion on all the amendments, and I will inform you technically when they will arrive, and of course we will work consistently. When it comes to the announcements of the next sessions, the session we now have is a session with the agenda which the President announced on the points during the previous session, on 24 April, what will be of what he determines and, compared to that, congratulations to all those who have succeeded in the short period of time because of the holiday that all the laws that were in the ordinary procedure, and you have seen these days how many amendments we have had, and very clearly and in detail conceptually, to prepare these amendments and therefore thank everyone again for their responsibilities. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this law wanted to sort out the modern market of securities of value, and in this idea it was divided into stock and out-of-market business, where trade is regulated by the stock exchange, while in the vanbersan business it was designed to give priority to natural and legal persons in order to make it easier for them to exercise their rights. However, looking through the further text of the law, it is seen that something is hiding in some way, because the exit of small shareholders into non-bersian business controls them, however, by the Securities Commission. Article 22 of this Act regulates trading of debt securities of value, where they have already been granted benefits to the National Bank and the Republic for trading and leaving the market without public advertising. That is why I have given the amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 22(2), in order for once again to be denied, because this article gives the right, in a way, that maturity does not have to wait within 30 days and for that reason I have made a proposal to delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26993	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26994	I'm glad, Mr. Markovic, that you have indirectly admitted that there is something wrong with this Rules of Procedure, but for history it will be recorded that it is your Rules of Procedure. At some point, you could have gathered a majority to get him to vote and to work on it and to break that same rules of procedure, not so much on your part, but some others do. This consistent European road is not clear to me. I'll explain now. Because of four laws, Miroljub Labus left the government, not because of Mladic, not because of the interruptions of these things, but because of the sharp disagreement that our financial market and other issues are to be settled with these points of the agenda. Why? There's been a problem talking about private law today. There is no law behind the profession, some concept of professional circles may mean something, but here lies private interest and private law. Of course, Kostunica doesn't care about that. See how interested he is. There are no messengers. No minister either, he started the campaign. Until a few days ago, he was leading an internal party, and now he's watching who can cross that one percent, catch a connection. Of course, we were planted here to discuss this. And of course immediately you know who will support this law – they will support DOS who are now the chairman of the boards of directors of banks who have been drawn here. Someone has concluded that it's not good to have an offshore company just on some exotic islands. And Serbia is exotic and it can happen that there are offshore companies here too, and that would be our companies. They'd be our strangers in their own country. That's the concept they made. I'm telling you, if these laws are passed, someone's probably gonna be stuck in jail, so I'm warning you in advance that this is consciously done. I'll prove it to you on the way to Serbia's offshore. Since it's definitely clear to everyone, those who are angry about the EU's quick entry negotiations stopped in early May, and they're probably angry too, just as they say -- we'll be angry by September, there's nothing from that trip and it's clear to everyone, then it's necessary to build an offshore company, an offshore state where they could mix up those who were washing money, which is the money that comes from this territory, and so is the mob from abroad, and it's these banks. You see, the board of directors of these banks are much more popular today than before they were elected ministers before they became ministers in Djindjic's government. Bozidar Djelic is now chairman of the board of directors, paid, advertised on television. Now the singer Pitic is on his way. It's the one who played the minister for three months and didn't take an oath. You see, with regard to Article 22 and Article 2 which is covered by Mr Lalic's amendment, it is a very important member of the 16th that defines who can be the publisher of values in Serbia and in the opening statement of the first position is potential – in the Republic of Serbia. It is said that legal persons based on that territory, the Republic, the Autonomous Province, the Authority and the Para-Government, the National Bank of Serbia, legal persons based on the territory of the OECD Member States and the EU whose institutions are responsible for controlling the value of the paper market are concluded by the Commission. How can our Securities Commission have closed contracts? I guess foreign contracts are concluded by the state, ratified by parliament. You want to change the S.H.I.E.L.D. after this law? You will, it doesn't fit your Squishy. How does a foreign-based legal person issue securities of value to us, why does he not betray in his country, and where does this have a company from one country or a legal entity from one country not issuing securities of value in its own country, but in another? It's where there's a common market. There are countries where they've opened up to register off-shore companies, etc. Here, that's it, Mr. Arsic, which is to say, why this is the private law of Mladjan Dinkic and the lobby behind it, because nothing is better than Labus, but they've been fighting who's going to catch more, who's going to have more influence. Mr Lalić has told you only one sentence which is relevant to this amendment to Article 22(2), and that sentence reads - the state cannot be in a more favourable position than the other paper issuers of value when it comes to these debt charters of value. It's the ones that give the guy a head, interest, or some convenience. What is proposed in this attitude by the Government, i.e. read – Mladjan Dinkic and his? It is proposed that if the issuer of that debt charter is worth the Republic or the National Bank of Serbia, the interpreter Mladjan Dinkic or Jelasic is in co-production, it is nevertheless that the maturity period may be shorter than 30 days, because the first position states that the maturity of the securities from that value cannot be shorter than 30 days. Of course, the following points say what is short-term, what is long-term, and as a waterworks, 365 days have been taken. We ask that the state be even. If someone else issues this debt charter of value, then you're going to have to explain to us how it's possible, but good, but then the state has to be in the same position as that other record publisher. I don't know why the state would always have an exception, is it because, through these securities, it guarantees short-term budget debt, which is necessary for the state to meet its obligations, for example, towards pensioners when it comes to overcoming some ongoing lack of funds in the budget? You know what will happen then – yes, the state is in charge of you and that bank, she calculated that she would return within that deadline, but she returned faster. So, this attitude of mine, every government official can do well to dispute the story, you're preventing the state from being more effective, to meet its obligation earlier and get rid of its obligations and thus be saved from some interest, but there's a hoax. Why? Because it forgets the main problem: how come there's no funds when we're full of surpluses? You see how that changes, how these pranks are being prepared. We have been tasked with revealing today this first of these private laws by Mladjan Dinkic and his sponsors and gods, at first glance it can seem that it is very moral to leave this group whose head is like Mladjan Dinkic. The problem is that it's a fight over prey, about primates and influence. So if Mr. Squirt follows this session, make sure he's cleared immediately. That's the next stage he's going to start.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26995	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Just a moment, please. I've consulted with the report that you're getting, which, in writing, has come together to the president of the Parliament, that I didn't accidentally create a lapus. No, I didn't, I didn't, I didn't accept the first 10 amendments, everything's fine. Thank you, thank you all for understanding. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to the title above Article 29. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26996	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Articles 28 and 29 shall be governed when and under what conditions the Committee on Papers shall issue a prospectus authorisation. Through this whole law, everything you haven't solved with this law and everything that would be too obvious to be abuse, you leave it as an opportunity to regulate it with various sublaws and regulate it by the Securities Commission. So, in all of this, even this commission has been given opportunities that belong exclusively to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, there is a constant mention of the form of the prospectus. Thus, the Securities Commission determines the form, content of the prospectus and decisions to issue securities of value. Let's say the content, but what is the form, what he means by that form, we can leave it to the linguists, let them study it, those who deal with languages, but keep your eyes on it. In Article 28, which is related to Article 29, since these are the deadlines under which the contract is concluded, the Commission shall adopt a decision on the refusal of the request for the approval of the prospectus for the issue of securities in the event that a prospectus is contained in the opposite, i.e. that the format of the prospectus does not comply with the provisions of this law and the acts adopted under this law. Wasn't it simpler to write that the Commission was making a decision to reject requests for the approval of a prospectus for the issue of securities in case the prospectus did not comply with the provisions of this law? These forms of yours and your contents aren't some sort of matter that has to be permanent, you can change it from case to case. So you can make the content of the form and let it only apply for one day. This is seen in the previous article to which the amendment was submitted, Article 22, says: "The debt securities obligations cannot be reached before the deadline of 30 days from the date on which they were issued. "And it is said in the following statement: "Extremely from the position of the 1st member, the debt charter liabilities of which the issuer of the Republic and the NBS may reach before the deadline of that position. "So you are already in the law determining who is privileged, who is not. So it would be too much for the MPs to list who will be privileged, and not the National Bank and the Republic of Serbia, so we will determine their content and form of prospectus. In that form and the contents of the prospectus, it is, in fact, an indication of the purpose of the securities of value, etc. So, if it is such a matter, it is perfectly logical that the provisions must be regulated by the law itself, rather than by various sublaws that the Commission can change when it likes it. The previous government ruled not by law, but by regulations. We had much more regulations by the government of Zoran Djindjic and the Government of Zoran Zivkovic than by members of the law, all together who were proposed in the National Assembly. It's too obvious, you've been getting little of the EU's pucks for it. Now we will no longer do this to regulations that are a sublegal act, but it will not be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather by some competences to entrust the authority representing the executive power, in this case to the Commission. We'll spin around again, one group of people will rule the market with securities of value. The very idea of this law and the set of other laws that go right behind this is how to get the money of small shareholders. So here in the privatisation process, in the process of broadcasting state bonds for old foreign currency savings, in the process of liquidating and bankrupting banks, we created a team that came up with huge capital. That capital isn't enough. This, unfortunately, does not even revolve in the domestic economy, but it is represented in the banking sector, who knows where everything, in these exotic islands etc. Now the appetites have grown, the ten billion euros that have been robbed so far, which through the assets, which through money, is not enough. Now it's time for that part of the money that citizens have on savings in banks or in their straws. Now that money needs to be made through various financial speculations. They're small investors, they're small by the capital that each of them has, but the fact is, there's a lot of them, it's a row of three or four billion euros. So, in such a way, through investment funds, through the Act on the takeover of stock companies, even there are privileged, through the Securities Market Act, that money is simply taken from the citizens of Serbia, and so on. In Article 29, that period is still within which the Securities Commission must respond, not on the basis of the proposed 20 days, but within 10 days, because it therefore reduces the possibility, i.e. the time period when various speculations in the paper market will be of value to raise or lower the value of individual actions, until such prospectus is issued. Of course, the Securities Commission should, since it does not have very little money, already have a little more than a year and a half, much more efficient to work on this issue. Speaking of the Securities Commission, it seems to me that G17 gentlemen have been wronged by the current President of the Securities Commission. It seems that man, it belonged to the policy option G17 plus, was fair, and it seems to me that's the only reason why one of these laws is now in the process -- we change the law, the conditions under which the Commission is elected, then we change the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26997	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Club, on the proposal for a law on securities market of value and other financial instruments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32(7), where the words "five years" are replaced by the words "one year". Articles 26 to 33 define the concept of a prospectus issued by the Securities Commission. Articles 30 and 31 define the preliminary prospectus and the conditions for obtaining such a prospectus from the Securities Commission, and Article 32 defines the notion of a delaying prospectus and what are the conditions for obtaining consent to the delaying prospectus from the Securities Commission. This member is extremely long, he has nine views, and the seventh position states that the delay in the start-up of the registration and payment of securities of value cannot last for more than five years for approved and unsanctioned actions, or 12 months for other securities of value, from the date of the adoption of a solution on the approval of the delayed prospectus. I think there's been an oversight of whoever wrote this law here. It should be noted that the postponement of the registration and payment procedure of securities of value cannot last for more than one year for approved and unsecured actions, i.e. 12 months. I believe that the proposer of this bill will accept this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u26999	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27000	By the fact that she has not accepted the amendment, the government acknowledges that it does not know or respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of the public and those MPs who have promised to support the amendments, I will explain what the problem of Article 32, paragraph 8, to which Mr Milajic has tabled the amendment and is asking for that position to be deleted. The opinion reads: "The Commission prescribes conditions for the publication of a delaying prospectus". In order for that to be clear, I must remind you that something similar has been done with Article 30(3), which says: "The Commission prescribes conditions for the publication of the preliminary prospectus". The third provision I would like to draw your attention to is the final position in Article 26, and I must commend the government here, this is the only legal, constitutional, and that is the formulation concerning the prospectus for issuing securities of value. This last view reads: "The format and content of the request for the approval of the prospectus for the issue of securities of value, decisions on the issue of securities of value, prospectus for the issue of securities of value and the shortened prospectus is prescribed by the Commission". This formulation covers all of what is included in Article 20(3) and Article 32. What's this about? Conditions can only be prescribed by law, and a way of exercising a right can be prescribed by a sublaw. What could be a sublegal act in this matter? It could be the Commission's decision on securities of value referred to in Article 26, the final position where the Commission's authority stands and the Commission's authority to do so is constitutional - to prescribe the form, to determine those forms. However, that the Commission independently determines the conditions, so when it comes to the issue, the preliminary prospectus and the delayed prospectus, then it comes into something that can only be regulated by the National Assembly as a law-making body. It's quite enough that this clearance from article 26. This can be done by the Securities Commission and can, by means of its act, regulate it in a general way, prescribe forms and so on, but determine some new conditions, more or less those prescribed by law, if not. For when it enters certain conditions, then it enters into the core, into matter which the National Assembly must regulate by law. He can't do it under the law. Why? Because the question of conditions touches the elemental question whether or not someone meets, whether or not they belong to someone, whether there is a right or not. Under which conditions a right can be recognised, but the Commission cannot, because it has no legislative jurisdiction. It can prescribe a form, it can prescribe patterns, it can resolve some of the issues of the procedure in accordance with the spirit of the law and on the basis of the law's powers, but it can enter into the essence of some law, in a way that it can exist or cannot exist, it cannot be done by the Commission; not only by the Securities Commission, but by any other body, and even by the Government it cannot do so. This is the most obvious example of an unconstitutional provision. Now, it is not Mladjan Dinkic who knows the Constitution or the founder. He did it consciously. Why? He's going to replace him and the Value Paper Commission, so he's going to be loyal and similar, and maybe some of these few here who are present, he's going to put them in there. He's doing all this in thoughtfully, because a very strong lobby is after him on these things. I don't know how he could have gone to your Republic Secretariat for legislation. And as far as this legislative committee is concerned, I'm not surprised at all, they're all legally possible. I call on those MPs who have promised to vote for the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party – by voting for this amendment you also vote for your Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27001	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. That reminds me well. All those interested in this matter, I believe that you have received objections, suggestions and suggestions from the Committee on Papers from the values that have been sent to you through the cabinets of the president, to the heads of Parliament's groups. Thank you. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27002	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here I will read, so MP Darko Glisic of the SRS requests that Article 52 paragraph 3 be amended and the following words: "The trade of documents under Article 2 of this article be carried out exclusively in accordance with the provisions of this law". Let's look at the text whose change is proposed. He says, "The trade of charters under Section 2 of this article shall be carried out exclusively in accordance with the provisions of this law, if this law is not otherwise specified." Now let me read the explanation of the proposing, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia: "Amendment is not accepted. These provisions require a clear definition of what is meant by trade in an organised market, as well as the way in which it is carried out, or it is determined that trade in an organised market is carried out exclusively in accordance with the provisions of this law, unless otherwise specified by this law. "Now, let me see these lawyers, experts and experts from G17 and others who support this government, what the writer meant by this. Here, I am very interested in what the writer wanted to say and what is the difference between the text "the trade of the papers under Article 2 of this article is done exclusively in accordance with the provisions of this law", so everything is governed by this law, even what is not allowed. This extension of the sentence "if this law is not different", does this mean that the law will be opposed to itself in some provisions? However, you are able and able to do so, it is not foreign to you either, but when it comes to this kind of matter you shouldn't. I'd really like to see who's like this, to say, at the very least, the stupidity in the law, and the only explanation of the government. I understand that some mistake is being stolen, you're rushing to pass the laws quickly, you're running out of time, there won't be four years to this government, let's give you another dinar or euro, you love it more, you steal it from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so you're writing the law quickly and it's moving something, you don't read nice. But, here, Darko Glisic, the MP, pointed out to you a part that shouldn't be in the law. Instead of such an amendment, which essentially changes neither the law nor the provisions of this law, accept, you provide an explanation with which you are increasingly involved, as our people say, as a chicken in the house. Well, that's what it looks like when the laws are written by people who haven't been in a long time, nor have they been involved in any serious project and some law-making. I don't mean to offend anyone personally, but it seems to me that the creators of this law, at least that technical piece, we know who designed it, is Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus, but those who designed it into these sentences, that this is their first law, or these three first laws, because the mistakes are the same or similar. I don't think interns in some ministry should be writing laws that are extremely important. One of these is important, because in any case the securities market needs to be settled, but not in a way that corresponds to Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus, Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic and other satellites around Mladjan Dinkic, there are more, not to waste this time that is for discussion to list their names. So, just to list the names of those satellites, we'd have to spend a full day's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27003	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic. You will, of course, take care that trainees have all the same rights as those in a permanent working relationship, and the right to the same mistakes is l′? Thank you. Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27004	Now, my Mr. Markovic, the interns are interns, they train themselves to work on their own sometimes, but if the intern is allowed to work on his own, then there's a lot of damage to the state. We had a chance to see when those socks entered the NBS, or NBJ, that's how it happened. We also have court proceedings. We've provided evidence, though, so we'll see how it stands. To see, this amendment shows how dangerous it is when a man hates and is vain. Of course, I do not mention names, but it is recognized from this answer, or opinion. It says - the amendment is not accepted. That's an order. "With these provisions," that's now meant as Article 52... However, Mr Glisic did not attack an entire 52, which has four positions. He's just one attitude, which he thought Mr. Nikola Milosevic would, by any chance, have been here, as an excellent logicist, probably laughed from this pay phone and could have diagnosed whoever wrote this... I have no intention of insulting anyone, Mr. President, you have no need to worry, but look what you're saying here. Mr Glisic requests that the text be deleted – the trade of paper from the 2nd item of the article is carried out exclusively. When it's called "exclusive", it's potent. It's the same as saying - must or may not be otherwise, it's punishable if it's different, it's ordered to be like this. The word "exclusive", take the dictionary, has Tom upstairs, this clerk who takes care of spelling. "According to the provisions of this law," and then, "if this law is not different." When you said, according to this law, you included from the title to the last member. You've included all the exceptions that exist in the law, but you've twice claimed that it doesn't have to be under the law. Even if you find an expert, an inspector like Parivodić has defended him all morning, who understands intellectual property rights, then we have robbed Bosnia. Your argument says: "These provisions need to clearly define what is meant by trade on an organised market", what Glisic requires to delete has nothing to do with what you are saying, "as well as the way it is done, or it is determined that trade on an organised market is carried out exclusively in accordance with the provisions of this law, if this law is not otherwise defined. "Is this some spelling exercise, or is Stevan Lilic trying to imitate in the government, to rewrite the same thing? In order for the people to understand it, it would be something like that—you spit on it, and he means rain. If we and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are to discuss logical things and question mental health, then, please, we are not experts in these things. It's another profession. This urge to reject everything, it can't be accepted, so that's terrible. There's no better proof that this is private law. You see, even in public, there's not a lot of people who usually jump. Why? They found an interest. They know how this law will be applied. Why now would they attack the law that suits them? Undetermined, imprecise law, with a lot of contradictory provisions, that's the wish of every model criminal. Every model criminal wants a law in which there is no relationship between the first and second members, between 15th and 16th, and he rejoices when the seventh and 377th are contradictory. We have such a law. We have a law that changes previously, the one that is now in force, the European law. We with several elements of European change laws with fewer elements of European. Me and Junior are changing Labus. That's terrible. It's a terrible thing to do and how humiliated this National Assembly is. As long as we see, it depends on the week. I hope, Mr. President, you won't mind if I call on the citizens of the Republic of Montenegro not to vote for what the youth friend in Montenegro Milo is doing. The same thing Milo's doing, that's what Junior's gonna do. If he has to, he'll destroy the state, as long as he doesn't go to jail. Milo organised a referendum for that. Or he'll fall out of power, then go to prison, and since he's not going to jail, he says -- oh, we're very threatened, give a faster referendum, if we're developing ourselves, we're going to develop, how it's going to be so much. That's how Junior's gonna sing to us, especially Ceda Antic, to give him... (President: I will resent you, for the congregation and tomorrow are ambushed, so there will be different occasions. Now it's an amendment. I'm just talking about seeing a great resemblance between this bill and what Milo Djukanovic has written, and what is not written, and what is conducted in Montenegro. I'm just warning the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there's no principle difference between Milo and Junior: there's a Miško Vukotic there, and this one's going to have Chad Antic; he's going to give him a historical background, this one's going to give him a historical background; there's a mathematician there, and Junior's got this mathematician here. There's no difference. They are on the same concept, and here, President, I support that you have made it clear that you do not accept this concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27005	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Good afternoon. This is a greeting on behalf of all of you new MP Vesna Raci-Radsavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27006	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's your law. The government's only argument is very interesting to read. I don't know, if it weren't for such a serious thing, what would be more ridiculous -- whether the bill, whether or not the arguments given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 54, and MP Stefan Zankov asked that this member be deleted, it is said, without the approval of a prospectus for issuing securities from value, the issue and offer of paper to previously known customers can be made: the Republics of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, the professional investors, all existing shareholders in accordance with the law governing companies and employees of the issuers, when the actions are only granted to those persons in accordance with the law governing companies. On behalf of the SRS, MP Stefan Zankov requests that the article be deleted, and the explanation of why the amendment is not accepted is – this provision does not allow for the preferential treatment of certain market participants, but is prescribed for the more efficient, flexible issue of paper from the value purchased in advance by known customers, such as the Republic of Serbia, NBS and professional investors who are known to be the most liquid and secure market participants. It is also possible to issue securities of value without the approval of a prospectus to all existing shareholders and employees, etc. One logical question: and who is it that can tell professional investors that they are the safest participants in the securities market of value, and by what are they safer than any other participant in the securities market? In Article 2. The draft law item 1 point 10) states: "A professional investor is a legal person who, due to the type of activity, can assess the importance of future investment in securities of value or other financial instruments. He said, "He says, because of his kind of action, he can judge. What are professional investors then, which is the kind of work they do, what does it say in their solution, the instrument of establishment, the statute, the labour rule, so that they can be the safest in this matter that they can buy securities of value without issuing a prospectus? Furthermore, why is it that the Republic of Serbia is constantly mentioned here and all the benefits are given either to the Republic of Serbia or to the National Bank of Serbia, so you could write local self-governments and units of autonomous provinces, etc., put the whole of a conglomerate of state institutions and different levels of government in the same situation. Even that part you didn't want to respect, you've already determined exclusively the National Bank and the Republic of Serbia. Who is assessing on behalf of the National Bank, or the Republic of Serbia, which charters will be worth buying without a prospectus and based on what? I understand that it's on a foreign market, you're struggling to buy some of our debt, 10 cents for a dollar debt; all right, you don't need a prospectus, you buy something that you'd have to pay back 10 times more. Now I ask the question – from whom will the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank buy charters of values for which it has not issued a prospectus and on what basis will they assess that these charters are good for the Republic and the National Bank? Or someone will say, "I'm sorry, it was a bad estimate, we lost at this job, and we didn't have a prospectus, but everything is in accordance with the law." Is that what Mladjan Dinkic wants on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia to buy papers of value without a prospectus? Will Governor Jelasic buy papers of value without a prospectus? If there's a prospectus, he can't say "I had a bad estimate," and then the one who issued the prospectus answers. He who will profit here – he who sells; and it will profit well; surely better than he has broadcast his actions on the real market, surely better. He's gonna put a lot of money in there. I bet it belonged to that group of satellites I was talking about earlier, a group of satellite conglomerates around Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus. It is not enough that you robbed the economy, that you closed down, robbed the banks, it is not enough that the money from Cyprus is gone and the story of Velja Ilic, Vladan Batic, who probably took it. It is not enough now that from small shareholders, three or four million euros will be kidnapped in a certain way, but we still have to take from the state in the budget. Why do you keep saying that the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank are privileged? Mladjan Dinkic and Vuk Hamović can be agreed – I broadcast so many and so many actions, we don't want a prospectus, we don't want a public offer, we don't want to be on the market, we don't want to be off the market, we don't want to be on the phone, you're going to pay me that much and we're good and we share that much. It's possible both theoretically and hypothetically, and in practice you proved that it was possible when you sold the National Savings Bank. The job was started by Bozidar Djelic when they played together in the same orchestra and Bozidar Djelic and Mladjan Dinkic and became the National Savings Bank of the two mobsters and criminals, Lazarevic and Hamovic. When it became too dangerous and obvious, they decided to sell it, but still much more expensive than they bought. So it's the same way that it's predicted in the provisions of Article 54 of this law, and 55, 56 and 57, so the National Savings Office sold, one part of the majority, to Greek "Europeans". At the time, Mladjan didn't want to offer the state part for sale, because, my God, buying the whole bank in one piece is much cheaper than buying it from more parts. The two have sold, Eurobank has already become the majority owner, now it does not have to pay the rest of the country in the value in which it paid Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, but less. They have 60 % and more of their own capital and have the right to vote and to distribute capital, dividends, etc. They don't have to beg to become owners. We have sold, I'm sure, much cheaper that part of the National Savings Bank that belongs to the state of Serbia in the nominal value of one action, than it was sold by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, and we have done everything for them and that they are the ones who are going to make huge money, and that the citizens of Serbia, or the state, are damaged. These are the mechanisms of how such laws, which when someone read them at first glance, look good, but so it seems when they are to be implemented by Mladjan Dinkic, Labus etc. Now they had a bit of a dispute; and you argued with the DS in the 2003 election campaign and then you made diagrams of how this, as it were, and then immediately after the election you made agreements with them and proposed them as one of the participants of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As you have reconciled with the Democratic Party, so these two, Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, will make peace with each other. My God, it's in their interest to rule and profit and all the vanity, all the size, when their qualities are like people, fall, because it's only important to be in power and be better off financially.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27007	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) For the record alone, I draw attention, on behalf of mathematicians, chemists and astronomers: theoretically, conglomerates do not have these satellites, but mixtures theoretically can, and compounds by the rule regularly. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment submitted to article 55 by MP Goran Dunjic, who was not accepted by the Finance Committee, while the legislator considers the amendment legally possible? The government didn't accept. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27008	Although I didn't understand this, like last time about the captain and that rat, but good. Article 55 regulates the issue of securities with no public offering to a known buyer. He begins: "A paper publisher of value from article 54 of this law... ". In article 54, there are no issuers of values. Article 54 speaks of exceptions to the type of investor rather than to the type of issuer. It's the same as when you refer to someone who exists somewhere, and there's no one there, but another object. You refer to the man next door and the apartment is empty. Let's be exact. Okay, that's all going well. This is where the so-called so-called. Professional investors are also prescribed this procedure that without public advertising, the issue of securities of value can be carried out. I must draw your attention to the fact that in almost every attitude, words such as "a decision on the approval of the issue of securities of value without a public offer to a known buyer" appear in that article. You already have that in paragraph 2, where the Commission prescribes what it should look like, and then in paragraph 3 - the Commission makes a decision on the approval of the issue of securities without a public offer to a known buyer when it determines that the notification contains all the necessary information, that the necessary documentation is attached, that the information is in accordance with the decision of the issuer on the issue of securities from the value and the documentation provided. You get the impression that it's one instance in the whole process. This procedure is later to go – the issuer of the securities shall be obliged, with the offer he makes to the persons, to provide a notice on the issue of securities without a public offer to a known buyer, whose release was approved by the Commission. In some ways, you can understand that a solution at the beginning has been brought by the Commission, however, when you come to the last position then you see that the issuer of the securities is obliged to, within seven days of the date of the entry and payment of those documents, submit to the Commission a request for approval of the issue of securities from the value (in the same solution at the beginning and at the end of the procedure, again some trainees translated) and deliver the other contract from Item 6 on the basis of which the sale of securities of value was made, evidence of the number of recorded and paid actions of value. In the end, when it should be that all this is well done, that the commission has approved the whole procedure, the solution set out in Article 2 is re-emerged. That's what I was just saying. I was just saying that there is no conversation and understanding between the members, and there is no conversation and understanding within the same member. Why? Because the complete expertise of this matter has been reduced to 126 votes. I must draw attention to the fact that the situation was similar with the Public Procurement Act. Young, smart, fine experts came along, presented the Law on Public Procurement as a wonder, that would solve all possible things, and when the application began, it was seen that it could not be applied. When people went to the Ministry of Finance, then Djelic, nothing was clear to him what they wrote in the law, went to the man who was in charge of these things and he said – wait till I got out of this drawer, we prescribed a Slovenian concept. We signed the Slovenian law, made a mistake in the translation, and we got the Serbian version of the Slovenian law, but the Serbian variant cannot be applied. When it comes to this member, it is hard for anyone to understand what is written, but what anyone can recognize is the intention of Mladjan Dinkic – the worse it is. I'll remind you of those tables when you were talking about how the Democratic Party was stealing votes from Bodrum; as soon as you connect with them, I'll remind you all. I've got press clipping, I've got all the footage I can get, so I can let the public of Serbia know about the prank that's being prepared. Minister Bubalo swore he'd never come to the Assembly again. He can't stand the pressure here. The younger one escapes, and as soon as his dots arrive, finds a job in Vojvodina to propagate, probably registers peasants or cheats again. I'll remind you all how you were kissing, hugging, fighting, accusing each other. I'm informing the public: they're all tasked with tricking you a little bit so the radicals don't come to power. You were wrong, because Mr. Albianic is bringing us down to a reasonable extent, we're almost 150. I call on Serbian citizens to take care of themselves next time they vote. It's not about beauty, it's about seeing those principles that do what and how they do it. Serbian citizens must know that this law has been written for an interesting group, for several people who need to legalise their dirty money. You see, in order for this process to end and this secret operation, 126 people here are going to raise their hands, and I am absolutely certain of those 126, 125.5 did not even read five members of this bill, because it is voiced on a trust basis. I warn the congregation's majority - do not trust Mladjan Dinkic. He said surplus, so the next day there's no retirement. Now almost four days people have been waiting, crowding, fainting people. Just to remind you who these professional investors are in our country, let the Serbian public know. These are banks based in the Republic, so these mobsters Raiffeisen, the Societte General. Raiffeisen increased its capital in the first year, and returned all founding assets abroad and boasted in Germany and Austria that such golden coke could not be found anywhere. Just so you know, these made it possible for someone to take the money and launder just over four billion. I remind you, Batic attacked Dinkic, Velija Ilic, although what VAT - half give Velija, and he attacked Dinkic, Borka Vukic attacked him, 78 boxes with form 1054 took it, hid it from showing the truth where the money is. Furthermore, international financial institutions, such as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Association, the International Financial Corporation and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are professional investors, can buy securities of value when they want and wherever they want, without public advertising. He says – insurance companies based in the Republic. They stopped a little bit because we made a fuss about the moves they've been making with 15 insurance companies and all the insurance companies are gonna be sides here. The companies for the management of investment and voluntary pension funds based in the Republic of Serbia – and these will be foreigners; brokerage and distillery companies based in the Republic – and what we have formally-law that ours is not ours. Banks, insurance companies, brokerage companies, investment and voluntary pension funds management companies, investment and pension funds based in the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Member States of the European Union, will then go. Explain to me which benefits EU Member States grant to Serbia. There's no benefits. Who authorized you to give them benefits? The basic principle in interstate relations is reciprocity. You sell the country, you sell everything. It's not all for sale. Furthermore, other legal entities based in the Republic or in the OECD and EU Member States investing their money in securities of value in order to obtain profits based on price differences or to protect financial assets from market risks, i.e. to exercise securities rights. There are no Serbs in this law, there is no Serbian firm, there is no our interest. You who do most of the voting for this bill will act in Serbia as foreigners, you will act absolutely as followers of Javier Solana. He bombed, you raise your hand, the consequences are the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27009	The 56th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56. The bill to delete this article in 56. The main reason why this member should be deleted is to create a market without privileged participants, which this Article 56, as well as those previously, is precisely... The real question would be how the value paper market works today. What was happening in the previous period to date was mostly past the law and directed by those who came to power in Serbia in October 2000 and who created Serbia's state and economic policy. This member of the 56th good work is relying on Article 54, where it is clear that there are also privileged participants in the securities market of value, which are numbered here, starting from the Republic of Serbia and beyond. When potential customers who have the ability to purchase paper from values beyond the approved prospectus are analysed a little more closely, the possibility of abuse can be seen immediately. I mean not only the abuse of the Republic of Serbia, but the abuse of those who, under the auspices of certain ministries, directors of agencies, president of committees, president of boards of directors, even the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, can cause enormous damage to the state, the economic operator and employees, or shareholders. The bribery of state officials whose powers directly affect the status and positions of individual participants in the securities market of value is precisely their foothold located in this member of the law. Let's look back at just a few affairs whose actors were high government officials. Let's just remember how the state acted when privatising "Knjiza Milos" and the euphoria that ruled during the purchase of actions from employees. The government went so far that the actions of the worker "Knjiza Miloša" wanted to group in the package and sell them cheaper for 6,000 dinars per share compared to the price offered by another competing firm. That is why the representatives of the company, which has now been so tenderly extended by former Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, I imagine, went from common human pity to a house visit to the official in question, who received guests with offers from his home because of the injury of his leg. There, and then they worked the suitcases, which will soon become the party's status symbol in ruins. After the collapse of this part, and because of Mr Milk's bold decision, later the patient of the Clinical Center, the government reacted violently, in the middle of the night, under the pressure of Miroljub Labus to repeal the Commission's decision on securities of value, and as the main culprit was named Milko Stimac. This is one of the most impressive examples of abuse on behalf of the Republic of Serbia for the sake of those who come to visit state officials. We can only assume what was only done right after the DOS came to power in 2000, but it just continued with today's government, it continued what the DOS used to do. The involvement of criminal structures in the authorities of the Democratic Party, I speak for the previous government, directly influenced the assessment of the value of the companies that were being sold at the time, primarily three Serbian cementers, in 2002, and then all other companies. Here's the best evidence for what I'm saying: the state of Serbia has launched a top-level investigation these days due to two million and 300,000 dollars that, according to the investigation, Nemanja Kolesar, then senior official of the Democratic Party and then head of cabinet of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and the team received in connection with the privatisation of the cement factory in Popovac at Paracino. This is also proof that the Republic of Serbia has served as an institution as a means to obtain material benefits by misusing the situation. Now it's funny when someone wants to defend them, so they say it was all within the law in the tender, that no one affected the customer's choice, but let someone wonder why the cement value was drastically reduced by the value that those cementists had in 2000, before the DOS came to power. Who's responsible for that? Those who then ruled and, unfortunately, part of the government today. By reducing the company's prices, the level of actions, which, in part, amounted to 15%, fell to workers. That's how everyone's damaged, both state and employees. No one gives anyone one cent in vain, let alone two million and $300,000. Publicity in Serbia, all citizens are very interested in ending the investigation into this affair, and it will show that this government has neither the courage nor the desire to finally bring justice to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27011	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27012	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 57 of the proposed law for the reason I consider that this provision favours individual participants in the securities market. This is quite obvious when looking at this Article 57, even in paragraph 1, where it is said that securities issued in accordance with Article 54 of the Law cannot be subject to a secondary public offering on an organised market at least 12 months from the date of their publication. However, in the same article in paragraph 4, some right is left to professional investors, where it is said that a professional investor who has acquired securities of value in accordance with Article 54 of this Act can alienate them without a public offering and, again, under Article 54, to those who have been privileged even when obtaining such paper, minority, the right to prevent purchases in the acquisition of securities from value, so that a privileged investor can sell on the market to the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank and also to another professional investor, and all related to Article 54. For these reasons, I suggest that article 57 be deleted, because I believe that there should be no favoration in the securities market, i.e. privileged participants, even if it is the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank or other privileged investor.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27013	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Bojan Kekić, Jovan Todorovic and Milorad Vucelic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 64. Proposal for a law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments. In fact, it is part of the law, Section X, which speaks about public society reporting, and Article 64 specifically deals with reporting important events. The amendment I've proposed requires that paragraphs 4 and 5 be deleted, and now I'm going to explain why. In fact, one legal illogicality is seen in this article of the law. I'll read the law, so it can be seen more clearly what it's all about. It is said: "When circumstances arise that could have a more significant impact on the business of public society and on the price of its securities than the general circumstances, it is up to the public to issue a public statement immediately on such circumstances (a report on significant events) in a daily paper distributed throughout the territory of the Republic. A copy of the report referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be made available simultaneously to the Commission and to the market organiser on which the securities are traded from the value of that public society. The Commission shall provide for a way of issuing the report referred to in Article 1(1). "So these first three positions are fine, however, what is disputed are the following two, and it says: "The public society has no obligation to issue a report under Article 1 if there are reasonable reasons to suggest that such a public statement would seriously endanger the business of public society." We have a situation to say in the first position of this member that public society is required to issue a public statement, and in Section 4, we say there is no obligation. So let's not play cat and mouse with the law. If there's something under the law, you can't say in the same article of that law it's not mandatory. You are further saying: "In the case of a Article 4 position, the public society is obliged to apply to the Commission for a resolution on the termination of the obligation to report relevant events". Secondly, who is the one who will assess the justification of the reasons which indicate that such a public statement would seriously endanger the business of public society? So this is about some situations, these are important events that can affect the value of public society, i.e. the value of such a society's actions, such as the abolition of a licence to perform a particular activity or the launch of a new production programme that significantly affects the value of such a public society's actions. It is certain that it is necessary to inform the public about this through the means of public information, as you have stated here, in one of the daily papers that has coverage in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, the timely public and shareholders. I'm saying, it's illogical that you make a commitment to one position, and by the other attitude in the same article, you're correcting that obligation, or you're saying that public society is not required to implement it. For this reason, I call on the Proposer to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27015	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27016	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a member of 64, in a certain way, regulates the very rights of minority owners of certain charters of values broadcast by a public society. Article 64(1) states: "When circumstances arise that could have a more significant impact on the business of public society and on the price of its securities of value, and not on the generally known circumstances, it is up to the public society to issue a public statement immediately on such circumstances in a daily paper distributed throughout the territory of the Republic". Let's just say that part isn't controversial. So, for the purpose of protecting shareholders, the persons who bought should know in what circumstances companies they own in a certain way are operating. However, "a public company has no obligation to issue a report under Article 1 if there are reasonable reasons to suggest that such a public statement would seriously endanger the business of a public society". Now there is a question – why this member? So, point 1 is said to have to issue, and immediately, in a daily list distributed throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but provided there are no justified reasons to suggest that such a public statement would seriously endanger the business of public society. Why would public society make any statement if his business wasn't at risk? So, one logical question that is raised – who, in fact, wants to protect this law: persons who betray securities from value or persons who buy paper from value? Small shareholders can't issue securities of value. They're the ones buying records of value. In the light of the proposal for this law, the finance minister, who is authorized to represent the promoter, and I see that we have both new, neither of them are in the O.R.... The explanation was that it was better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to keep what little savings they had not in banks under unfavourable interest, but to place on the market securities of value through stock companies, investment funds, etc. They'll probably have a bigger income than the bank's interest. Who takes the risk of a bank and invests in savings, money in banks? Well, responsibility is borne by the bank, and we've established the Deposit Insurance Agency. So, in a certain way, the state, especially as it issues, or the National Bank of Serbia, issues a license to work for banks. The logical question is that in the event of a bad business of the bank and inequitableness, the money will have to be compensated to the citizens either from the Deposit Insurance Agency or from the National Bank or from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Well, when it comes to trading securities of value, who makes up for money? Well, according to our current regulations on stock companies, legal entities, business registers and so on, it makes up for whoever issued securities of value and that guarantees only their property. It's when debt-confidential relations arise, even when it comes to securities emissions from value, it doesn't have to. These are the problems with this law. And then who's gonna make those little shareholders pay off under certain circumstances? Well, no one will, but that's why whoever caused the damage, who's responsible for the damage, is going to make an extremely good profit. And that little savings still left among the citizens of Serbia (a little, counting on how many citizens there are, and a lot for individuals, 10, 15, 20 people), will be a fine profit, with which they will continue to create new speculations and likely help in election campaigns, to expect protection from the government as it is, from the finance minister as it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27017	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 77 that regulates stock exchange operations, with a proposal to delete positions 6, 7 and 8. The reason is quite clear, it is obvious that there is uncertainty in this law, because the Securities Commission has been given such discretion that the question of whether or not this law was necessary was at all. It seemed enough for the first member to define that the financial market would be regulated by the Securities Commission. If you look at the law a little bit, you will find in each other the discretionary law of the Committee on Charters of Values, which prescribes various conditions, various institutes. I ask whether the Securities Commission has the capacity to implement this law; and in this particular position it determines the similarity and reliability of new persons who gain qualified participation in receiving 5, 10, 15, 20, and 50% of the total number of votes in the stock exchange. So it's a problem for the ability to go to 50% of stock exchanges when you get votes and get qualified participation. Obviously, this creates a monopoly when it comes to stock exchanges, and monopoly and stock exchanges are two completely opposed concepts. On the contrary, the stock market is the one that needs to prevent anyone's monopoly from affirming the market, competition, supply and demand. We, thanks to the monopoly that had the Belgrade Stock Exchange so far, have a very bad experience when it comes to monopolies. Currently on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, the monopoly has bankers. But when you look at this member, it's clear that someone from the shadows's intention to form, in the worst sense of the word, private stock exchanges, that would allow the rules of business that are completely unclear to come up with big money and to spill huge funds into the ownership of small shareholders towards the owners. So, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, it is completely against the whole member, but particularly against the discretionary rights of the Securities Commission. I believe that this law is entirely inconclusive and vague and that it is regrettable that after two years of waiting for this law we have this text of proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27019	I thank you, Mr Antic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. (Frislav Peric, from the place: Do we work L′ to 6? No, no, no, As far as I'm concerned, the debate has been extended. We're working until the debate on this point is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27020	Mr. Angelkovic, I must inform you that it is necessary to warn the president of the Markovic Assembly that he is a representative at this point Mladjan Dinkic, and he burned from this assembly; then we were informed that he is a representative of the Government of Bubalo, and he will never come to this building again. We are now discussing important laws here, and they cool themselves somewhere in some shade, smiling and saying, "Come on, what are they doing in the congregation, they talk, it's going to last for two days." Probably after that – turkey dots don't work, we've done our main job.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27021	Mr. Krasic, do you have any information we don't have regarding Minister Bubal?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27022	You've also received that Bubalo is an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27023	No, no, because of your information that he'll never come again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27024	Well, you see, he swore last time he suffered that debate, a knockout from the radicals, and he said, "I will no longer enter this hall in my life." And you know, they're people of words. I'm just reminding you that they're people of their word. That's how they promised they wouldn't arrest anyone, so now they're arrested. I mean, it's not correct and it's not cultural, it's not civilized, and that might sound better for those who know these terms, it's not European for someone to suggest something and run away. If you already want something European, it is possible for the minister to be absent in a small number of parliaments in Europe when his act is on the agenda. And this one of yours, he used to come here in jeans, he wasn't interested in the Assembly at all, he was only interested in money, disks, music, Keba and other things. But, well, that's what voters are going to judge, I don't mind. Let's go back to this amendment that was submitted to Article 77. Bills of law, and that is to say, paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. You see what it looks like, how the measure is lost. I've been in this business a long time, so I probably even know a little bit about these laws; I can figure out when someone's doing it perfiduously, when they're making some pins, they're making little holes that can hardly be established when they first read the bill, but I can't understand that someone's doing it so brutally. And this, believe me, is the most brutal thing I've ever had a chance to read. It doesn't surprise me, though, because I know who's behind this law and I don't expect anything better from him. First, he doesn't know this job, but good. I'm talking again because of the majority, which by the system 126 is evidence of expertise, and even logic... You see, Article 9. The bill defines the concept of public society, but here the word public does not mean state and does not mean even the public, the word here publicly means absolutely nothing. All he has to do is confuse someone who would take this law seriously when you vote it. Let's take the first position where we talk about a society, so to speak, public society is the one that even once betrayed securities of value and finished the job. But his status is bound to have been granted the Commission's permission to issue. Of what? They don't care, they read the paper. The commission for what? It's for publishing. Of what? Bees? He's butterflying? She's gone. In the previous few members, to be precise in Article 3, you say - the Securities Commission. This issue committee doesn't exist in law. There is nowhere to be found, only this member appears in the issuing committee. It also says: "has received the Commission's permission to issue, i.e. the inclusion of these charters in the organised market". Which release committee? Oh, my God, what are they writing? Article 10 says – an organised market; this market is defined not by entities, not by locality, not by place, not by work, but by the main catchment area – which is controlled by the Commission. It's all about the Commission. Now let's go back to Article 77, which is covered by the amendment, where a failed attempt to define what the stock market is. You see, sometimes for the functioning of the stock market, to start a stock exchange, to get it to work, a solution that allowed the Ministry of Finance to work. By the logic of things, according to the state structure, it should be done by the Ministry as an authority of state administration. However, we have abandoned that system. We have a state and its authorities decommissioning system in place, so the so-called independent regulatory bodies are formed with the attributes of state authority. Sometimes they're called commissions, sometimes agencies, and other names are used. So the Securities Commission appears here as the archduke to which you give some authority that it could not have. So someone can't organize a stock market unless they have a license from the Securities Commission. It's a new style now. It's not the first time, because something similar was in the previous solution, and it used to be done by the ministry. In this same article where the stock exchange is to be defined, to be given the notion of the stock exchange, you in attitude 3 regulate the situation as a qualified participation in a stock company is acquired. This attitude is no place in this article. It would be the same as if we had defined in one article the company's first position, and in the second position talked about qualified participation, restrictions, how it is controlled, where it is reported, how it is reported, whether there is any approval, etc. If we accepted this logic, it would be the same as if in the Banks Act we wrote that and that member, the first position, the bank is a stock company, and in the next position we are talking about qualified participation. You see, it's only when the G17 proposes everything can be logical and legal, even if it's contradictory of the principle that applies when writing a certain standard. In these views that Mr Antic asked to be deleted, you stated that the commission in a period that cannot last more than three months from receiving the notice from the third article's point of view decides on the similarity and reliability of new persons who gain qualified participation and makes the solution. What's that for in this article? Now, you explain to me this authority received by the Commission: it will bring a positive solution if it can be concluded on the basis of the information obtained that those who possess a qualified participation have a good business reputation. Hamovic has a fantastic business reputation. As soon as you see his signature, don't check it at all, it's guaranteed. I don't want to make other names, others know those other names. And that their financial position is such that they can be assumed not to have a negative impact on the business of the stock market. What's the negative impact? There'll be money laundering, everybody benefits from that money laundering. And the stock market and those who trade. There's no better way to wash the money. The mob money on the stock market is best... Do you remember what it was like; the first affair with us was with the shop of the actions of the Apache brewery; the organizer, the son of a good lawyer. How did you end this affair? Not at all. This Ivanišević, Ivancevic, as it was, continues to trade. Don't let me tell you about the others. You've closed a lot of that circle, and there's a lot of crocodiles in that bar. There is an imminent conflict of interest. When a conflict of interest arises, it will be such a competition that the evidence will spray on all sides. Whoever's in the police can only read the economic topics of our newspaper, everything's guaranteed. You're keeping an eye on it because you're making such a good regulation that someone's arresting you, because there's no difference between thefts. Stealing is stealing, can't be democratic theft. It is that someone convinces us that such a category exists, but stealing is stealing. He says: "Nearer conditions for determining the criteria of similarity and reliability of a person who acquires qualified participation are determined by the Commission. "Poor Squishy, he's about to have another heart attack. The gear's been changed. He's in the draft changed. Who's going to get there? Again, the yellow ones, who will leave the Commission from time to time, go back to the Commission a little bit. What was it like with that? That's the way it is, isn't it? He repented, so he didn't repent, so he will, so he won't, and it's probably something wrong, and then it's all over. This is the problem of deposing the state and seizing state functions in these windy societies. Now you can imagine, the Securities Commission is a significant organ. Why? Because it has a significant impact on the creation of money. Every issue of securities of value is the creation of money. Who has an impact on banks as money creators, and this has Jelasic, you see, he via the reserve policy etc. It slows down some, some allow expansion, mandatory reserves, regulates the amount of money, monitors what conditions are met for loans, etc. And whoever's doing this, they make it possible for all mobsters to meet on the stock market and wash paper and money nicely. You're keeping an eye on me (I guess my time is up), and in time we're warning you to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27025	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 77th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic and Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the government disagrees. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Cekovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27026	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, MP Sreto Peric, on behalf of the SRS, demanded that the underlying capital be raised from a million euros to five million euros. We got the government's explanation, and I can't say that what's written is incorrect, but there's another problem. This would be true in countries where there are no criminals or mobsters in power, where there is a rule of law, where there are courts that are independent and where there are judges who are independent. So this kind of argument over there would work. It doesn't matter much here, because it's the stock market that organises the securities market. It also states in Article 77: "The stock exchange is a legal entity organised as a stock company which, in accordance with this law, carries out the work of organising trade in securities of value and other financial instruments on the stock market, i.e. in the stock market and in the vanbersan market. "It's a stock market business; AD, we can freely count that it's some stock company that fits its assets, not the stockholder's property, but only the property it owns. Considering how the trade in securities of value has taken place so far and all abuses are present, which all the pressures have been made even on independent bodies such as the Commission, so much so as to involve the Deputy Prime Minister, you remember when it was the "Knjiz Milos" affair. Someone who has received some securities of value on the market under equal terms, simply, with other sublaws, all of this is out of force, the law itself is put, and even pressures are being placed on the Committee on Trade in Papers to conclude that the money transaction was not in accordance with the law and it was. In fact, from that moment on, the idea of passing one of these laws is born, and in the first place, that the insubordination, the insubordination, the appearance of honest people, tend to be removed from the commission, and that other people come to their place. Now, what happens if the stock market itself artificially causes disturbances in its securities market? The only thing that can happen to her is that she loses her license to work. If it does certain damage to one of the participants, the only thing that can happen to her is that this basic capital is used to defile a person who has been damaged by the artificial disturbances caused by the stock market itself. The government's reasoning is – to prevent a monopoly; therefore, very few people will be able to organise the stock market. The bigger the stock market, the stronger it gets, the less opportunities for abuse. There are too many market participants, too much information goes from one to the next, and then this job itself, as it is, turns out to be extremely worth it for the organisers, or the owners of the stock market, so they don't need to get big money fast. They can slowly develop their stock exchange, their business, attract market participants to trade securities of value and thus develop their business. However, this does not match Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, they are not used to getting rich for a long time. They're not used to having one of their jobs last longer than a few months. They're used to making big money in a short time. Who guarantees you they won't be the organizers of one of the stock exchanges tomorrow? Who guarantees you that they may not give some 500,000 or a million euros to start their own stock market that they will abuse? Who assures you that such people as them will not cause artificial disturbances in the securities market? This is about small shareholders, this is about three or four billion euros that someone needs to grab. He won't be able to do it all of a sudden, he won't be able to pay much, but if he has to pay, he'll watch him pay as little as possible. Now imagine the stock market, it has the basic capital of a million euros, it has the equipment, you know, that computer equipment today is no longer expensive, for 100-150 thousand euros it can equip both hardware and software and provide all the necessary permits for people to work, and create a market disturbance with speculation where someone will suffer damage from, for example, four million euros. This one who has suffered damage will address the court for failing to comply with the provisions of the law on trade in securities of value. In criminal provisions, the person responsible shall have no criminal responsibility. What will the court be able to do? The only thing they'll be able to do is charge off the stock market. How big is she? A million euros. How good is the stock market organizer? At least three. Now those new three are going to go to someone else, and they're going to give one million more to open up the stock market again, etc. We haven't gotten there yet, but when you put in the Criminal Law such sanctions that those who cause securities market disturbances of value and do more damage than the underlying capital of the stock market can go to jail for 10 years or more, then this kind of explanation that you wrote would be valid, not like this. He's constantly moving aside from Criminal Law and we're making some milder criminal provisions in laws that have nothing to do with Criminal Law and we've been allowing gentlemen who have been making good money since October 5th to harm citizens and the state in the coming period to get a good break.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27027	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Mr Arsic, when the President of the Republic interferes with independent regulatory bodies and makes statements and attacks on an independent body, why shouldn't others, when he allows himself to do so? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27028	Mr. Angelkovic, I know you remember SRJ well during the blockade, sanctions, etc. ratifying one convention on the prevention of money laundering, taking over commitments, installing it into appropriate regulations and forming a special body dealing with the prevention of money laundering. In the context of their activities, it is also possible to give confirmation guaranteeing that the corresponding amount of funds, one transaction which has been carried out in accordance with the regulation, that that capital has its origin, that it may be from traffic, etc. We have an organ dealing with the prevention of money laundering, which communicates with banks and with all the payers. It is precisely prescribed to which amount, from which amount, which is proven etc. And these privatisations used the services of that body. However, in this new concept, as regards Article 81, which has the title: "The Stock Exchange Licence", it is precisely prescribed what applies to the request requesting a stock market authorisation, so it is stated: the founding act of the stock market, proof of origin of the founding capital, etc. It's not evidence in the sense of an authorized body's paper that controls whether money is clean. No, but the Securities Commission needs to prove the origin of the capital. This is where the Commission assumes the function of another competent national authority. We can't accept that. We cannot accept a conflict between two organs. We cannot now, by voting this out, say: we do not recognise the body involved in the prevention of money laundering, and this commission is not obliged to accept this confirmation that the commission has made, which it guarantees. One organ cannot admit the act of another organ. One authority may not request that it determine some of the facts of which there is already evidence and a document of the other authority authorised to establish those facts. Both are under the control of Mladjan Dinkic. Looks like you've got a total mess at the finance ministry. You probably fight each other and fight each other, so you don't trust each other. Now you're going to change the Securities Commission, and then there's going to be another hat that's going to control everything that moves younger, there's going to be a new Junior waiting. This cannot stand as a document given on request, because it is offensive to the state, does not recognise another body etc. Another very important thing, point 3 – proof of the payment of the underlying capital to the bank's temporary account. The bank, if it is this amount, and it is a large amount of money to receive that payment, is asking whether the money is clean. So the bank has to control the competent authority that's dealing with the prevention of money laundering. That is not enough for you, you are asking that the Securities Commission also be competent and that whoever submits a request for the establishment of the stock market collects all the documentation, and now has to prove what he has already proven in two places. What's gonna happen? That the body involved in the prevention of money laundering says – it's okay that transaction; the bank – it's fine when you open the account and pay the funds; the Securities Commission says – it's a suspicious money. Who should be given faith in legal traffic? The competent body involved in the prevention or the Securities Commission? That's not what you were thinking. You're just looking at how to sharpen, how to keep it under your control, and what's going to be accumulated in these members, that doesn't matter. I know why it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter because of the definition of professional investors. They will report that they are trading on the stock market, being issuers of securities of value, buying securities of value, etc. We from the Serbian Radical Party do not have a reserve state, we do not allow someone to destroy and sell the state. We've only written such amendments to stop you, and we'll watch how we'll stop you from selling NIS, EPS, as well as this, because you'd sell the Danube if you could, Gerdap, you'd sell the air, but you could breathe in bottles. A pathological desire for money, for power, for man to possess power, can be satisfied in another way, but he can also cover himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27029	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government also did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27030	With this amendment, the Serbian Radical Party requested that item 1 point 4 be deleted in Article 82, and that point 5 be deleted in Article 2 of the same article). I'll try to explain very briefly. It's a member who has the title: "Decision on granting a license to run the stock market". It is prescribed in paragraph 1 that the Commission shall adopt a decision on the granting of a licence for the operation of the stock market when it determines (i.e., we are now going to the facts): 1) the validity of the requirements laid down in Article 81 of this Act. I do not understand what it means. The request is not good, this one is valid, and this one is not good. What is the criterion for the assessment of validity? He's gone. 2) that the conditions laid down in the law are met. I can understand that, but then you'd have to have some indication of what member you mean and what condition. Here you say - the terms laid down by law. To get you back to what we talked about an hour ago, you said there's something about a record of value that the terms are determined by the Commission, and here you realized that the conditions can only be prescribed by law by the National Assembly. 3) that the prescribed documentation is attached – and this can be understood. This cannot: 4) that persons who possess qualified participation are similar and reliable. The criteria for similarity and reliability, however hard you try to talk – good business relations etc., different floscules can be used, in practice similarity and reliability have to be valued according to the personal criteria. It's not that similarity to the Communist Union, which was once sought, Mr. Angelkovic. This is even worse. This is a personal resemblance. Advantage, affection, humility towards Mladjan Dinkic. You know, whoever opposes Mladjan Dinkic has been wiped out of the banking system, from the financial market, and will have to leave the country if he wants to stay alive. Find me one who has survived the conflict with Mladjan Dinkic. There he is, and Labus had to leave. He even freaked out the president. Don't mess with Mladjan Dinkic, anything can happen. If on October 5th with red women's socks over his head and weapons he could break into the People's Bank of Yugoslavia, and he has evidence, a pre-crisis procedure was conducted. Where are they? Buy number 2 "Serbian Free Minds" and you'll see a full police file on the intrusion. You think it's funny. Just smile. If you knew how many of them smiled here, they would never enter the congregation again. Just smile. So this should either be deleted or re-reformed, that the persons who possess qualified participation are similar and reliable by the criteria of Mladjan Dinkic. We didn't want to write such an amendment, because we respect the Assembly, but we asked to erase what doesn't mean anything. Now listen, if Mr Nikola Milosevic listens to this, he will support this, because we communicate well when it comes to logic, and what comes from the government. It is said: "The Commission refuses to grant a licence to the stock exchange if it finds that there is one or more of the following reasons for refusing to apply... ". Is one enough for you to write "or more"? But you can do all that. What we are asking to delete is point 5 – that persons who possess qualified participation do not meet the criteria of similarity and reliability. That's what's negative now. If they meet the winnings, and if they don't, they won't be given permission. So again if it doesn't fit Dinkic's understanding of the financial market. Point 3 again – that the origin of the underlying capital is not clear and doubtless on the basis of the evidence provided, i.e. that the data delivered cannot be verified. So again, under this law, no competent authorities are recognised, what they have found. It's absolutely willful. You could have solved this in three members: the financial market will do as stated by Mladjan Dinkic, another member – we inform you that this came into force yesterday. That's the law you're proposing. I'm not surprised at you from G17 plus, I'm just surprised by the DSS guys, I don't know how long they can take this. Send Bulatovic, he controls it all, collects documentation, so when we get to power, we arrest. That's fine. Maybe he can't do it differently. Remember, at the time, as you say, the worst regime in Serbia, the red-and-black coalition, no one from the red-and-black coalition should have thought of writing these things. When the budget was adopted in 1993, 1994, 1995, and each year Zebic served as SRJ finance minister and for 10 days his service was in the neighbouring office where the board discusses. For each item, if the MP says something is to be clarified, there are 20 kilograms of documentation and four officials who help him explain it better. Since democracy and the light of the burning Assembly of Serbia have prevailed, we have not adopted any final accounts. It's not democracy anarchy. Those who had nothing to bite at had nothing to do with a basic dose of drugs, such as Ceda Jovanovic. It's guarded by the police, one building, another building, "jaguar", "Krmivo" etc. It is, the citizens of Serbia, democracy -- misery, poverty, destruction. Young, smooth, beautiful, beautiful and nothing more than that, and it's tearing our country apart. Take care, Serbian citizens, so it's not too late. I guess someone bit themselves in these six years when they voted DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27031	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 86. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's when an authorised representative of the government has better things to do than defend the law and obey the MPs. I hear the man's too busy, so now we have a situation where something's accepted, and it's not accepted. It's that story from the beginning of this session, the discussion of the details. Article 86(1) states: "A member of the stock exchange may be selected for a person who has been given consent under Article 85 of this Act, and who is not legally convicted of crimes against labour, economics, property, justice, money laundering, public order and legal traffic and official duties, for which the minimum penalty for a prison of one year is prescribed, as well as for a criminal offence established by this law. "National MP Petar Jojic asked for part of the text of "public order and legal traffic" to be deleted. The question is, what does a traffic relationship have to do with traffic, what does a traffic economy have to do with traffic, except, of course, that it participates in the transport of certain goods and services, what has to do with traffic assets, except that car is mobile property, what does abuse have to do with the justice of traffic. What does that have to do with anything? In the light of why this amendment is not accepted, this provision does not apply to the link between the crime and the trafficking of securities of value, but to the fact that a member of the stock exchange management cannot be selected as a person who has been convicted by law for those offences. There are, lawyers know it better than I do, crimes from indiscretion, and they're just from traffic. So, the man is a secure citizen, he's sitting in a car, he's on his way, something he didn't want happened, which he doesn't want to happen to anyone, and neither does himself, and he can't deal with these affairs, because he's been convicted. The question is, what are we going to do with those who aren't convicted, and all the evidence, both material and solid evidence, saying that they should have been tried long ago, convicted, and that they should long have endured prison sentences. They'll be able to deal with this, they're used to being close to the authorities, they're used to being stronger than the law, stronger than the state, stronger than the courts. They're covered by these restraining orders that can't be dealt with by this business. Even if you put their name on it, you shouldn't forbid it. Not because they're so much stronger than you, the state is strong, and it shows, when it wants, when it has power, but because it wouldn't suit you, because it would reveal the affairs of the government members, it would reveal who was covering up that power theft, it would reveal who was in that court procedure, otherwise it would be known, but it would be misleading who profited from it. It would reveal who these laws are written for, how the privatisation of the electricity industry, the oil industry, the state railways is planned. That's why it doesn't suit you, and against people like that, who shouldn't be doing this job and whose sin is much bigger than a traffic crime, you can't start any single trial. While Bogoljub Karic was at your will, you were with him. When you needed Bogoljub Karic to give you votes to beat Tomislav Nikolic, because then you were all together with DS and Boris Tadic, he was good to you. As soon as he started jeopardizing your interests, your jobs, he's a criminal. He was also a criminal when he gave you votes and now he is, but you have shown that you can deal with him as a state, but it's only a question of whether you will. The biggest problem in this government is that you don't want to, and why – because it would start to talk about the Seasel Islands, about the Virgin Islands. Even when it comes to this Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and the Bank, and the Securities Commission of Value, you will be brought by a man of confirmation from the Seattle Bank – I raised money there. He'll even be able to transfer from that account to this one. What are you going to do? Is it not in accordance with the law – it is. Is he a thief? It is, probably, as soon as there's money in the Seattles, as soon as they're not here, and that's the money from here. It's those who need to be processed and that's what these provisions should apply to. However, the most important thing for you is that someone who accidentally violated the provisions of the Law on Public Traffic forbids that they are engaged in trading securities of value, while Jelasic, Dinkic, Labus, Hamović and Lazarevic, and here is Boza dericoža, people on the market are being torn apart, making money and it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27033	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 86 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27034	Article 86 of the Law has the title – conditions for selection, i.e. the appointment of members of the administration. It's all about the stock market and those stock market organs. The previous agreement for the selection of these members shall be given by the Securities Commission. Mr Arsic also commented on this condition, which was prescribed in item 1) of the item 1 – legally convicted of a criminal offence against labour relations, businesses, property, justice, money laundering, and he asked to delete this part – public order and traffic, and to remain this – official duties, and what follows later, it means nothing, so it does not belong here. What Mr. Koprivica is asking to be deleted is the addition: "which, as a minimum, is a prescribed prison sentence", is not a measure, it's a criminal penalty, it can be translated from Dutch, but in our case, it's a punishment, "in the course of one year, as well as a criminal offence established by this law". It doesn't mean anything to you, it just makes a mistake and I'm surprised you didn't accept it. We submitted a few amendments to improve this bad text, but you couldn't figure out what it was, or maybe it was vanity. My radicals won't mind, I'd like to extend this other thing that's covered by these other amendments, and this has been the amendment of God's Koprivica. The next amendment is Mr. Momir Markovic's amendment, which as another condition demanded that it be installed, and that would be point 3) in the first position, which could be as a ban not to give consent to a person to be elected member of the stock exchange management. Here's what we wrote. So, he could not be a member of the stock exchange management and should not have given consent if the proposed governor of the National Bank, the Vice Governor of the National Bank, an adviser to the governor (it was a joke to you, so he went to prison, so he became an adviser), the minister, deputy minister, advisor minister, advisor to finance, members of the Commission, within five years of the day of discharge, or the termination of the functions to which they were elected, appointed or appointed, as well as the related persons of Article 13 of this law in relation to the persons referred to in this point. Let me remind you, the government doesn't accept that either, and the government has passed a law here to prevent conflicts of interest. To see how the experts who received their diploma are responding while waiting for the National Theatre, they say: "Amendment is not accepted, the provisions prescribed by this member provide that a member of the Stock Exchange's board cannot be selected as a person who has been legally convicted of those crimes or who has committed a serious violation of the provisions of this law and thus jeopardised the interests of the participants in the organised market. "There is now an answer to the amendment: "There are no reasonable reasons that the persons listed in the amendment cannot perform the duties of a member of the stock exchange management unless they are legally convicted of those crimes or have committed a serious violation of this law. "So, they believe that the governor, vice governor may be a member of the stock exchange management. As possible, explain to me whether, in this government, Vojislav Kostunica, if he woke up, could he understand this, since they're stuck here about conflicts of interest, because what they've been doing, they've passed out, and we've promised citizens, so citizens know, so one can't have more functions, so conflict of interest, etc. Here, Mladjan Dinkic, not accepting the amendment, says that the vice governor, the one who was arrested, has now become an adviser, is free to follow this law, when it is passed, to be a member of the stock exchange management. We asked by amendment that the people who performed those functions I read could not be selected while they were in office, not even five years after they were out of office. Let me remind you, if the First Municipal Court judge in Belgrade doesn't want to be a judge anymore, but wants to be a lawyer, he can't sign up here, he's going there, he's going to go to Valjevo, where he's already going. And why? For it is assumed that he knows these judges and can influence them. So, everything that's normal... Because tell me what is the European standard that forbids you to accept this amendment, give me a directive, give me a recommendation, give me everything you're invited to when you offer us some regulations and laws here. Tell me if he can do it in England, Switzerland, Germany, where he can do it, and ask Jelasic, because he was an official there in the Bundesbanka. So ask him if there could have been a governor being a member of some stock exchange management. You have more America; in America, if you just look at a woman, they immediately dismissed him from being a minister or a deputy minister. Did you see what they did to that Englishman, that minister, they ruined him, because he just looked at his wife wrong. We can do anything. Is that a democratic, civilized, maybe new liquid? Where are you experts, what are you silent about? You usually pick up, you jump; there's no Micka, he would mathematically explain that the vice governor and governor know best how to steal on the stock market and therefore they should be members of the stock exchange management. Shut up, your young Dinkic's private law. Just to remind you of one thing: when there was a sharp conflict within the PSS as strong as possible, the protection of the property of Bogoljub Karic or the ideology of the PSS, it capitulated ideology, the property won and the missing party. That's how you're going to die. In a conflict between the financial interests of those who forced Mladjan Dinkic to be here and impose this Kostunica, they will win, and you will no longer be in this room. I've been in this room for 15 years, and I've learned something.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27035	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Section 86 of Section 3 where the words "responsible business reputation" are deleted. The explanation of this amendment is – the text of which is proposed by this amendment is quite broad and undefined, for only one reason, because we did not know exactly what Minister Dinkic meant when he said that business reputation can only be obtained by certain persons. The government’s explanation of why it did not accept this amendment states that it is important to choose for the members of the stock exchange management who have a proper business reputation. We Serbian radicals, of course, ask the question of who it is with a special business reputation. In the case of the Vienna municipality, where I come from, we can realize that these people are walking around town today, walking around the suitcases, walking around the briefcase, and we don't know who they are. Of course, some times they come to local self-government, i.e. even in local self - government congregations. When asked about the committees and citizens of Vienna who this person is, we get the answer that it doesn't matter who he is, that it matters where he comes from, and it comes from the G17 Plus expert group and is sent by Mladjan Dinkic. The question arises whether a gentleman has come with a business reputation with a full suitcase or if he will leave with a full suitcase. Under LEAP's password, the development and information centre, and now agenda 21, such a person of suspect has had to wash the money through ecology. We are witnessing that Mladjan Dinkic, a minister who is not currently in the O.R., has allocated money to the environment to a large extent through his ministry. Of course, we don't mind getting money in Vienna, but what do we need a person on the side who's gonna manage that money? Now we have in Parliament my fellow citizen Zoran Subotic, so we may get an answer from him, and he's not in the O.R., who's with that suitcase, who's walking around Vienna. The question arises as to how long this person will be; because, from the beginning when we had power in the Vienna municipality, there has been a change in power, since the last constitution of the new power following the extraordinary presidential elections in Vienna, of course, G17 plus has been in power with many parties there, which you say here in parliament that you can never and would not cooperate. Of course, you're working together at the place and you can when it comes to this kind of thing, which is where the gentleman came to Vienna, so on these issues, you can do all kinds of cooperation. Of course, we will oppose such situations and decisions. Of course, we are also looking for answers through this amendment – who are persons with a particularly proper business reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27037	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27038	That the bill itself has not been defined at all and that it is quite inaccurate is seen in Article 90: "The Commission will give the stock market permission if the stock market: 1) has at least three people who are employed indefinitely, who have a license to do broker's business and who have previously not been taken from them and fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 86(1) of this Act". Take care of this "and which was previously taken from them", that's a very interesting detail. If it was taken from them before, how do they have it again? Now who's the connection between the revoked work permit and the re-authorization? What if the permit was suspended as a temporary measure in some administrative procedure? What if a man proved to the court that there was no basis for the withdrawal of his license? That's the part where we talked about the law being written by interns. So either he has a license or he doesn't. If she has it, she has the same rights as everyone else who has it, and if she's not there, she's gone. That's the end of the story. Furthermore, the Commission will allow the stock exchange to work if the stock market meets other conditions relating to human and organisational skills and technical equipment, in accordance with this law and Commission act. What are the other conditions? We say that there are conditions laid down in Article 1 that are defined, to say that there are at least three persons, to swallow and that is not his license, come on and that, but now he says "other conditions relating to human and organisational skills and technical equipment, in accordance with this law and act of the Commission". Who prescribes other conditions? The law doesn't. That is why this amendment, which reads that this text that I have read is replaced by the text "fulfills the other conditions provided for by this law." The conditions for a person to exercise a right must be laid down by law, not by other conditions that are not in the law. Technical equipment? What's technical equipment? How much must there be - one computer, two computers? What connection to the Internet – satellite, cable, optical? Does it have to have an external modem, does it have to have an internal modem? The number of mobile phones, can this be determined by means of an act by the Securities Commission? You got it. You're giving too much authority to a commission that just needs to take care of the application of what's in the law. It is not the Commission that determines the rules of the game. The rules of the game determine the law, and the law is voted by MPs, regardless of whose proposal, whether governments, groups of MPs, one MP, group of citizens, etc. The important thing is that he has a constitutional basis. That's the problem and the lack in this whole law. We talked about faces being similar and reliable. What does that mean, like and reliable? Does that mean membership in a political party? You know what, you wrote it so it means that too. Let's say similar and reliable, so let's go back to Article 86. In accordance with Article 86, similar persons are those who are not legally convicted of crimes against working relationships, businesses, property, justice, money laundering, public order, etc. They're similar and reliable faces. There is no extension of similarity and reliability by the Constitution. There isn't. This leaves opportunities for abuses of the Commission itself, because it is the one that determines the criteria for the similarity and reliability of the person, and these criteria are broad. Who says he has to apply all the criteria, who says he has to prove all the criteria? Who guarantees you that when you regulate something by sublaw that someone who has the right of law, both moral and any other person, is not given permission, and the other person who should never get it. That's the problem when you propose the law. Probably wanting to prove that the proponent is ready to deal with economic crime, with various speculators, with various criminals; so let me see that, but write it here, not in some sublegal acts that no one knows what they're going to look like, no one gives consent. You've even avoided the responsibility that consent is given by the ministry in charge of finance affairs. Let's just say the Assembly doesn't have to either, so let's make it a ministry, so the minister will have to sign it, so he'll match whether these criteria were appropriate or not. No, this is how it's gonna go down to the little ones you put on hot potatoes, and then you expect that while you're in power they work for you outside the law, past conscience, past morality. So the problem is that when someone is rebelling, then we'll make another law, so that President of the Commission's Securities Commission to change the criteria, to adapt from situation to situation, because God forbid if something the Vice-President of the Republic of Serbia has promised someone that someone will have the right to pass the law, we'll change the whole of the Commission, we'll change the law. What kind of law does that serve? I remember his sentences – it doesn't matter how they voted for the Labour Act, it's important that it's one system law. So this congregation majority changes the same law, so it jumps into its own stomach. It doesn't matter if it was voted from Bodrum or Thessaloniki, it's important that the system law was passed; it doesn't matter whether the law is good, it's important that the law is passed; it doesn't matter whether it prevents criminals from getting rich, it's important that the law is passed that a certain group of people get rich. Now, you're also aware that you won't be able to protect them for much longer, so these laws are passed. If you won't be able to protect them for long, then at least give them a legal basis for tomorrow's people, don't God, because the thieves don't go to jail. There, that's it, that's the reason for writing these members. So, in one part you've copied form from various European laws, you've made some parallel legislation, and that's just the part about technique, and all of this is a clean upgrade so that someone can still make a huge fortune; and that wealth that he now has has has once again gained by crime and again at the expense of both citizens and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27039	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Goran Jaksic. Here you go, Mr. Yaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27040	Thank you very much. As long as we don't mix up some technical and essential stuff. I'll just look back on the technical part. So the law is not small at all; of course it's not small, because it's very important and has more parts. Each of these parts regulates certain activities, segments of those transactions and obligations that the Commission needs above all to carry out in the regulation of the securities market. Article 90 has the title – Staff and organisational training and technical equipment of the stock exchange. So this term applies only to these obligations and these conditions, not to others. On some other terms, I fully agree with one part of the reasoning, the other members in other parts of this law apply. This is why, as this applies, I repeat, to human and organisational skills and technical equipment, it is said, therefore, in attitude 2 of the fulfilment of other conditions relating to this same personnel and organisational training and technical equipment, so there is no uncertainty. I can understand the meaning of the amendment, but it can't be attached to this member himself, because it's completely in one other part of the law, the other part of the law is talking about those other grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27041	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Arsic, replica. Here you go. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27042	I will read to you the amendment: "The Commission will give the market permission to work if the stock market meets the other conditions provided for by this law." So much for talking about the law being made up of multiple parts that regulate this area. And now somebody explain to me, "The Commission will give the stock market permission to work if the stock market has at least three people who are employed indefinitely, who have a license to do broker business." All right, go on – meet other conditions relating to human resources... Well, isn't this from the previous staff structure, what else does it have to do with the personnel structure? So there's at least three faces, and that's the personnel structure. The regulation of conditions, so please, and even by law to open one of the most common trafics in which you're going to sell tobacco in that law you wrote the terms of having to have a sanitary node, in the law you wrote, in a piece that's much less important than this, and you're counting on it under technical equipment, and now when it comes to the work of the stock market, there's going to be some sublegal acts to mix it up the way he likes it. In that it is a problem, which the law repeats in many parts, but does not follow the order of what the previous members say, but the proposer often jumps into his stomach, the opposition itself, is the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27043	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27044	Well, if there was Mr. Dinkic or Mr. Bubalo, he'd probably have gone the same way as their predecessor this morning, that Parivodić. I would ask him a question which is the difference between the solution to grant a stock market permit from Article 82, and he begins: "The Commission is making a solution to the granting of a stock market permit when it determines", so four conditions, and what you wrote in Article 90: "The Commission will give the market permission to work if the stock market... ". Is that the same license, is this some other permit? Now, let's do a little spelling: "The Commission will give the market permission to work", in article 90, and eight members ahead: "The Commission is making a solution for granting a work permit". What's the difference? Somebody explain to me if it's the same solution or if it's two separate solutions? It's a problem of copying and translation, you know. Here you wrote – that the prescribed documentation, the conditions met, etc. is attached. Then you gave a minimum number of employees here. You've defined the technical equipment, however, by this permission to do broker's business. Let me remind you, Sladjana Milosevic came from America a few years ago, so when they asked her what you were doing there, besides singing, recording, she says – I finished my broker course. You can hire her, she's a world-renowned expert, a drug dealer. It's funny to you, but if she sees you laughing, you've robbed Bostan. We tried something small to interpret and say – these are conditions for obtaining a work permit, but the conditions are prescribed in one, two, three or five members, and then in that next member it is all determined. If all these conditions are met, a stock market permit shall be issued. It's all messed up with you, and I'm just surprised when someone's getting sedated over these amendments of ours. We tried to make something right. It is quite enough to say – if the conditions prescribed by the law are met, although we do not know why it stands there when it is already covered by Article 82, except for what is at point 1) concerning these human skills. However, you will have another problem, much greater, in terms of technical equipment. You don't know who defines what technical equipment is, but about that then.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27045	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27046	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, section 95. The bill reads: "The stock exchange is obliged to notify the Commission of a change in the name, seat or address before the application for registration of that change. In the event of a change in the name of the stock exchange, the stock exchange shall apply to the Commission for the granting of consent to changes in acts. In addition to the notification of a change in the position of the 1st member, the stock exchange shall provide evidence that it meets the requirements of technical equipment." The amendment that I have made to delete Article 95 of Section 3 has not been accepted by the Government. The explanation says, "Amendment is not accepted. In order to obtain a market authorisation, it must provide evidence of its technical equipment. For these reasons, it is prescribed that the stock market is obliged to provide evidence to the Commission in case of a change in its seat and address that it also fulfils the same conditions of technical equipment in the changed seat. "As I wrote in the explanation of the amendment, these conditions for technical equipment are not in the very draft of the law, and therefore cannot be a condition for which a person is entitled. The explanation you gave is not meaningful. Instead of giving such miserable explanations, you better watch, as you have heard in the past in the statements of the SRS MPs, what your partners, Dinkic, Djelic, etc. are doing. Since this is about trading securities of value and stock exchanges, we've been going on for many years since the five-eyed revolution for companies to be certified, and then stocks are sold at a reduced price. That trend continues. All you have to do is set up a vice governor or governor of a "coffer" to be on the stock market or run the stock market. You can explain that they have experience. We believe they have experience, just asking the question, since we saw what a 100,000-euro case looks like, what does a case of a few million euros look like? That would be the biggest problem in your entire business. It is your suggestion to delete this whole law, to remove it from the procedure, because no law that you have explained has ever been valid or at least not applied, even if it was somewhat valid. All that you've touched so far, I'm not saying anything because of you, more because of the citizens of Serbia, you've mostly destroyed everything, starting with agriculture, businesses, banks, and now there's a market of securities left. It's just a question of how far? I advise you to think tomorrow, because the election is, as you know, very soon, and what will you do then? You won't all be able to escape, that's for sure. If you get there, the question is, where are you going? Those who lie to you now and who pay you to pass such laws will not be able to do so when you are no longer in power. Now you're interesting. Now that you're supposed to buy a company in Serbia, it's said – ask the G17; when you have to buy a bank – ask the G17; when you have to do some smuggling, something to import – ask the G17. After you're out of power, no one's gonna take you. So consider yourself, think about the future, if you are not already thinking about Serbia, think about your future and withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27047	The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27048	I appreciate that the speaker of parliament, as the highest authority, the institution of this state, is used in... But I wouldn't be involved in politics right now, I'd rather talk about the law, since it's explained here what the law applies to and what certain members point to. So, it's about changing the name, seat and address of the stock market; it's about Article 95, paragraph 3 says, "With notice of change from the position of the 1st member", about changing the name and the seat, "the stock adds proof that it meets the requirements of technical equipment. "This part should remain for very practical reasons. The stock exchange covered by this law implies a modern stock exchange, not a stock exchange of nine hundred and some years, when it was fully in other technical conditions and other modes of work. This refers to the stock exchange of two thousand and a few years. Each stock exchange, in order to function, must possess these conditions of technical equipment, because it is one of the basic technical elements of the stock market function primarily electronic communication, whether with people working on the stock market, with people who own securities of value or people interested in the turnover of these securities of value. The stock market can't be the size of Maracana. It's known what the stock market looks like. It's communication that makes a real picture of sales and purchases and even stock market work. This communication shall be carried out by means of technical means, electronic means and there shall be adequate stock exchange equipment. To get back to the member himself, he's talking about changing names and seats. This latter applies first and foremost to the change in the seat, when the stock exchange changes its seat, elsewhere; it must prove that there is this technical equipment in that second place, primarily related to appropriate communication, but there is also the archiving and other tasks that are carried out by appropriate technical equipment. When changing the seat, it is necessary to determine whether such technical equipment exists in that new seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27049	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Jovan Todorovic and Milorad Vucelic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27050	Mr. Angelkovic, if you followed the transmission this morning and had the opportunity to see the nervous Minister Parivodić, I can now tell you that there is a member of the 100th that has the title – arbitration. This member is contrary to the arbitration law. Today we discussed this law. We have submitted 13 amendments to this proposal. In fact, not today, but yesterday, I apologize, and he was not Parivodić, but Stojkovic. I'm sorry. He was Minister Stojkovic, and we discussed it yesterday. This law on arbitration sets that arbitration completely in a different way than the one you set in article 100. I have to tell you that the law on arbitration was something earlier in the government's session when the proposal was set. It's probably a 15-day difference, and then it came to the agenda of that same government's session, this law that's on the agenda today. Now I'm absolutely sure Dinkic and Stojkovic don't talk. I am absolutely sure that Balinovac cheats both Stojkovic and Mladjan Dinkic. I'm absolutely sure the government is doing it the way I explained it from this pay phone two and a half years ago and it was divided into interesting spheres with its sponsors. That's how the SPO will be in this government until it has the consent to privatise the Fair and the Genex. You, until you strengthen your position to the financial sector. The DSS, I don't know, they might be sleeping yet. When they wake up, it'll be too late. Let an MP of the parties who make up power come out and say if he's a member of 100. A bill in accordance with the arbitration law that you're going to vote on. Just to remind you, since the law on arbitration is before this bill in voting day, and I see that they planned next Thursday, you will raise your hands for the arbitration law and on the same day after half an hour you have to vote for this Act of Youth and you will raise your hands again, and there is a member of the 100th that is contrary to what Stojkovic swore two days here. Now you're forcing us to be cooperative. We're cooperative, we're distracting you. How did we distract you? We've submitted two amendments to article 100. See what you said: "In order to resolve disputes between the participants on the stock market in the stock market, the stock market educates arbitration. "I'm going to tell you right now that termology is bad. It's not a stock exchange, it's said – the organizer of an arbitration institution. Terminology is wrong. "Arbitration of the Stock Exchange has a list of the Arbitarians, which is prescribed by the Stock Exchange Assembly." I have to tell you that according to the arbitration law, the organiser of the stock exchange is prescribing it. You here legally state how the stock market should operate in the formation of arbitration and the opposite of the law. "The members of the stock market management cannot be members of the arbitration of the stock exchange. The arbitration of the stock exchange shall be governed by the rules governing the way in which arbitration works are carried out. "This act is brought by the organiser, not the arbitration of the stock exchange. It's against the law. "The arbitration decision is final. The Commission shall prescribe the conditions and manner of education of arbitration in the case of possible disputes between the stock exchange and the stock market participants. "A complete member is contrary to what has been said here as an advantage of the new stock market law. We ask the question – where is the position of the Government, is it in the proposal for a stock exchange law or this Youth proposal? Not that the government's position differs depending on whether the minister from G17 plus or DSS? And this law on arbitration that was proposed here was written by NGOs and these others; it's known who wrote it, someone on the side. I've come to the conclusion that these foreign employers don't communicate with each other. So, from a number of places, it looks like the government of Vojislav Kostunica. One place is that financial part, it's probably the IMF, the World Bank and this International Development Association. Others who act are probably the OSCE, the Council of Europe, they act on Stojkovic, NATO on Stankovic. You are waiting for a decision to split Serbia-Montenegro on Sunday, then Mladja will say – Stankovic to move, Vuk Draskovic here and there, and that is shopping, trade. You'll see, as of Monday, you'll think completely different about the bill's proposals, if you come together, even if it's uncertain whether you're going to put yourself together more in this building. So it's completely contradictory. To sort it out, we gave you two amendments. Now it's illusory to read what we wanted to improve this text. With each of our amendments, we've really taken a huge risk of fixing something that you don't want to look normal on purpose. God forbid someone declares us tomorrow and says you're the same in that concept. We're not in that concept, but we're afraid you'll ruin a lot until you're out of power. We just want to slow you down in these reform laws of yours. You've seen it yourself, Europe won't hear from you. And you're still falling there, if we're going to be in May, whether we're going to be in September, and then we're going to see. And she went to the European movement to Europe, as they were called, to the Miniæka. People, citizens of Serbia, see where these people are taking us! They're taking us to the pit. Well, Europe has broken apart, that European Union of theirs, and they're driving us where no one else will. Change direction, that game is already over, only someone hasn't informed you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27051	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 110, on which Miljko Cetrovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, the Commission's powers are regulated if it determines certain illegalities in the conduct of securities trading operations. It is said in Article 110: "If the supervision procedure determines illegality, i.e. irregularities in the business of the stock exchange, the Commission shall make a decision requiring the stock exchange to remove that illegality within a certain period of time, i.e. irregularities and may take one or more measures: 1) make a public notice... ". Let's say it's a judge, but when it's put up as some kind of surveillance and one part of the business is laid down by law, so it can give a warning. I don't know what. So he's gonna give someone a yellow card. "2) to order the stock exchange to suspend trade in certain securities of value, i.e. to exclude from the instrument of a given securities from value", possibly on those records of the value to which the illegality in business relates; "3) to give the order to the stock exchange to suspend work for up to three months. "There you are already known for this, when it comes to suspending work, and especially when it comes to fiscal cash registers. Throughout Serbia, you have sent the tax police and market inspection to determine whether the fiscal tills are used in accordance with the law. There we have, I can say, a large number of abuses of the very organ that conducts surveillance. It only happens that the store is closed because it's competitive for someone who's close to the government. It's even closing because of a bun. It closes when there's no legal basis. The finance minister should be in the O.R. right now, as the IRS is directly under his control. So even when a worker starts knocking on a fiscal slice, and he takes the money, the store closes, from one to three months, etc. This right shall be given to the Commission when it comes to the stock exchange. I guess something between that yellow and red card. Let's move forward, next item 4) says, "give the order for temporary ban on the availability of funds from the stock exchange and other assets of the stock market for up to three months". Gentlemen, by forbidding someone to perform their duties, you can, in some way, by some individual administrative act, but you cannot forbid someone from having their means. The stock market is a kind of public business, but property is their private business. You have the right to prohibit the use of property only on the basis of the court's decision, as a temporary measure, that perhaps by using property, assets, etc., mobile and immovable property, you do not create such conditions as to prevent someone from compensation for that property, for the damage he has caused him. But it's the court's job, not the Commission's job. It's the exclusive jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. You can't ban anyone from having private property, it's a constitutionally guaranteed right, without a court ruling, because the Commission has that power, that power, that it's older than the judicial authority, and the authority is the executive authority. Even this Serbian Parliament must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, let alone a commission that does not respect the court's decisions or that it considers that such decisions do not need it, or that you give it the power to not respect judicial authority. Further: "5) to give a temporary ban on payment of fees to members of the board of the stock exchange," let the management, they are responsible for some illegalities, to say - behold, you will not receive a salary for three months, you are punished, although the right to work and pay off earnings is also guaranteed by the Constitution, but it is said "and employees". What's the interest of a cleaning lady, a technical face, a coffee cook, someone who works in technical services, irregularities in the work of his employer? Doesn't it seem to you that in that desire you have proved that this is a good and rigorous law you have exaggerated? On the one hand, you gave powers, you gave privileges – you gave powers to the Commission, you gave privileges to the Republic of Serbia, to the National Bank, but not to benefit the State and the National Bank, but to the benefit of individuals. On the other hand, you prohibit the paying off of workers who are technical persons on the market: security, coffee cooks, cleaning women, etc. Or, administrative worker, what does he have to do with it? Do you want to punish someone who has no responsibility for everything his employer does? Again, the question is whether it is in accordance with the Constitution – it is not. Is that interfering with the work of the judicial authorities? Yes, it is. That's the problem. Here you are, reportedly, on the constitutional basis that the Commission is not an independent regulatory body, but is doing its job with the powers conferred on it by the Government, the explanation that only such a solution is possible because it is provided for in the Constitution. So, the Commission cannot be an independent regulatory body, because it is not a constitutional category. Then you give that same commission in article 110 exclusive rights belonging to the judiciary, which means that the stock market will be closed and the money blocked, perhaps for the benefit of some other stock exchange. Maybe these irregularities, which they are, aren't so big that they have to come up with one of these rigorous parts. Who should be estimating that? I guess it's a court of law. The other day we had a debate here at the judge's training assembly. Are we going to have a law to train members of the Securities Committee now? If they're already taking over the court's work, let's give them the same conditions that the court has. It just seems to me that this law has been written in a hurry, not, as someone says, written for two years. Some laws, such as the Act on Action Society and the Law on Investment Funds, were written in September of the month, and here in some extremely strange way, beware of this, on 28 April 2006, meaning the last working day of April, this arrived in the Serbian Parliament; the session of the Serbian Parliament was scheduled on 30 April. This was already on the agenda. To remind you, it was the last day of April, Sunday. It is obvious that someone was in a hurry to have this law voted as soon as possible, because you are quite certain that it is a matter of days when this congregation majority will cancel obedience to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the problem. So this law was written in haste, the same people who wrote and these two previous laws were written by this one, this one is seen in style, but they were about six months late in writing this law compared to other laws. So something serious has made you write one of these laws in a hurry, with many shortcomings, you haven't been able to examine it yourself. What made you do it in a hurry is fear of losing power. You should be afraid of it, but not because of the loss of power, but because of all that those men who exercised power did; they should fear the law, because they broke the law while they exercised power.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27053	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 111. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. The government also accepted, but did not officially submit to Article 112 of the amendment, MPs Jovan Todorovic, Bojan Kekic and Milorad Vucelic submitted together. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee and the Financial Committee submitted, in the same text, an amendment to Article 113. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee. The government also accepted this amendment, but did not officially deliver. The amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Cekovic to Article 113. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. No one's answering for a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 113. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27054	When the Legislative Committee submits an amendment, it is understood that it is legally possible, although it is legally illogical that we do not have the government's position. The 113st member regulates the primary capital of the OTC, and we have submitted the amendment, asking that from 300,000 euros in dinar equivalent, this increase is to 5m euros. I have to go back to an identical provision that regulated the underlying capital of the stock exchange. Both members start with the words "the monetary part of the underlying capital amounts" and some amount is given. We see here that the one who writes doesn't know what the basic capital of a company is, probably why Bubalo didn't want to come here, because he represented that company law. In the event of the establishment of each company, the amount of the underlying capital is prescribed. In our Business Society Act, we have no provision on how much that money should be. Where does the money part of the underlying capital go? It is prescribed for banks, insurance companies and all other financial institutions, because it is a guarantee of the total liquidity of that economic operator who must always have those assets, regardless of what form, but those assets are always present so that the economic operator can meet, since it is a legal person, so it is a legal entity and a liability; in order to meet some obligations, it always needs this material aspect of the obligation, which is some value and usually the value is expressed in money. Since Mr. Arsic wrote these amendments, since he knows who he's dealing with, he approached one small ruse, so he increased this amount. Now let's hear what Junior's experts are up to. They say that, of course by order, the amendment is not accepted; the parallel practice in a very clear and explicit way makes a difference in the underlying capital between the two market organisers. So all we're talking about is basic capital, no cash, as a member begins. You see how Arsic has mastered them. For example, in Poland, where the underlying capital of the stock exchange is five times higher than prescribed capital for the organizer of the vanbersan market, in the Czech Republic the ratio of 1:10 is in favour of the underlying capital of the stock market. There's not a single word on the monetary part of the underlying capital. They've tried here to give a really long answer, but there's no money in the world, and the amendment only applies to the money part of the underlying capital. You see how Arsic masterly performed it and, of course, humiliated the government of Mladjan Dinkic, whom we have long known to have no idea about the economy and this matter. It can't be assembled. Something's a little better than Djelic, I have to admit it to you from G17. That dibidus doesn't know anything. They laughed at him at the Ministry of Finance, taught him what the budget was, a living disaster. That's what the public needs to know. It's not snowing because it's time to see the tracks. Here's how Arsic performed this masterly, submitted the amendment, experts to answer and miss the topic. The level of capital shall be determined by the Company Act, with some specificities which may be provided for by certain regulations. Here we need to regulate that monetary part of the underlying capital, but they don't know what the underlying capital is, they don't know why it's needed. Let me remind you, because I see that there are sadder people here, and even those hired by Mladjan Dinkic. He did the first wrong thing when he came to the governor's post, which is not in accordance with Article 80. The law on banks and financial organisations has prescribed that the main capital of banks and financial organisations will be restructured. Those who understand little about this business will realize that by failing to fulfil this obligation he created conditions to wipe out those banks, among other things, and he was called by all those who understand the banking system that need to be re-valorated, in order to get proper and true statements about the state of our banks' assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27055	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador John Day. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 121. Proposal for a law on the market of securities of value and other financial instruments: "Article 121 is deleted. "The government's explanation: "Amendment is not accepted. This provision does not allow the privileged treatment of certain market participants, but rather provides for more efficient and flexible trade in standardised financial derivatives by the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia and professional investors known to be the most liquid and secure market participants. I will quote to you Article 121: "Standardised financial derivatives can be traded outside the regulated market when the offer for purchase, i.e. is sold without public advertising, if, in view of the type of standardised financial derivative, it can also be traded outside the organised market and if: 1) the purchase, i.e. the sale of standardised financial derivatives, is made by the Republic; 2) the purchase, i.e. the sale of standardised financial derivatives by the National Bank of Serbia; 3) if the parties are professional investors". We suggest that this member be deleted in order to create equal conditions for all participants in the securities market of value and other financial instruments, where there are no privileged ones. That the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank cannot be privileged in the market of securities of value, in order to prevent the abuse of some people from the government and the National Bank of Serbia who were previously known to us for various financial affairs and suitcases, which were effective and very lucrative. That's why we suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27057	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 127 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 129(1). The draft law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments requiring Article 129(1) of the word "and additional documentation" to be deleted. I don't think there's any need for the Securities Commission to be able to regulate what's regulated by law by some sublaws. The content of the request submitted to the Securities Commission for the purpose of obtaining a licence to carry out the activity of the brokerage and dealership is taxed in the draft law, and I do not see the purpose of allowing the Securities Commission to be more than law. This enables the Securities Commission to be above the law and to regulate itself what is already regulated by law. The Securities Commission was formed on the proposal of Mr Dinkic's Finance Minister and it is likely that, if he stays this way and does not accept my amendment, he will have the opportunity to place his friends, relatives and others in a privileged position, and the state will not benefit from that. So I would ask the MPs to delete these words in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 130 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 177 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 219 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Sanja Cekovic and Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 220th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic and Petar Jojic. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27060	We have skipped a number of amendments because there is no need to repeat the reasons that we have already highlighted in the debate over the previous amendments. Article 220 regulates the competence of the Commission for securities of value. We didn't want to complain about what was stated in paragraph 1, because there are 17 points where these individual competences are delimited. As far as I can see, all amendments submitted to Article 220 require the erasure of attitudes 3, and Sanja Cekovic, and Petar Jojic and Jovan Todorovic, with Jovan Todorovic looking for something more besides that. What's the problem? The Government proposes that in paragraph 3 be the text: "The business referred to in point (1) - 14 of Article 1 of this Article shall be carried out by the Commission as entrusted matters. "So, if it is argued in the explanation that the Charter Commission is an independent regulatory body, then something like this should not be in paragraph 3, but as soon as it stands in paragraph 3 and it is stated that these are all points 1) to 14), then it means that these are transactions from the competent authority of the State administration. These are jobs that, by the logic of things, should be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. It used to be like that, according to the 1993 law, 1994, when we first saw the proper standards that gave us the opportunity to form stock exchanges, brokers, dealers, etc. At that time, independent of the Commission on Securities of Value, the Federal Ministry of Finance granted a work permit, and the federal government was empowered to make the conditions under that law closer. We now have a completely different concept in place, and this concept began to develop when it started with agencies according to the rules of Djindjic's government, later the RRA, the tobacco agency, then the state was decommissioned, so the Council of Telecommunications, that I don't sort out everything in order, you know that there are several independent regulatory bodies in almost every vault. They all have to be in the same legal position in terms of their status, and here they don't. It's said here - it's confidential business. When it is said that businesses are entrusted, then the supervision and control of the conduct of these transactions, or the Commission for Securities of Value, is carried out by the executive authority, in character, and by the god and work of Mladjan Dinkic. This member is important, because he points out that everything that goes forward is written and promoted as a European path, a path, a path, a flow, a standard, at the end of the day when someone is afraid that it could be taken out of his hands and his personal control then faster and better goes the provision and goes back to the wing of someone who is the creator of a concept like this. I have to say, when you're flirting with these trusted jobs, you've got to take care of the way you finance. In order for this to be clear to you, and to the viewers, and especially to those in the local self-government, local self-government is guaranteed funds from the budget. That's what you financials would have to know. You here have quite an undefined way of funding the Securities Commission, but I must tell you, its revenues and expenditures are shown in the very budget of the Republic of Serbia, based on the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia. If you're saying that some jobs are being done as trusted, then the Republic of those jobs must be financed, and here you've given a few self-financing modes to the Securities Commission. Mr. Angelkovic, given that we still have seven-eight amendments, maybe even ten, and that, in essence, they repeat the reasons we pointed out in the debate, we will no longer appear on these amendments, because we estimate that we have properly informed the public that someone here is forcing us to accept private regulations of people who think they are irreplaceable, that they are cheerful and dress, that they can do anything and do anything. We think we've got enough attention, and we're hoping that tomorrow we'll get a chance to make similar rules. Thinking about these areas is the same as with regard to this bill. I think that even then we will have the opportunity to warn the citizens (of course, not to scare them but to warn them) that all this news coming from the kitchen of Mladjan Dinkic is very dangerous and that, above all, they are in the function of crime development. Then the DSS, which says they are effectively fighting crime, can do it very effectively, they just need to arrest Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27061	Mr. Krasic, thank you for your understanding. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not come forward to explain further amendments, I just want to remind you that my colleague Jovan Todorovic and I have submitted six amendments, and of the six amendments, we have been accepted three amendments, both to Article 219 and to the new members of 220 and 220b. Three amendments have not been accepted and we do not want to comment on them, we are pleased. If you put on a good amendment, that's how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-18-0.u27063	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric together submitted an amendment suggesting that new subtitles and new members of 220a and 220b be added after members of 220a. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 221. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 226 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 227 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 227th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 229 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 232 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 238th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 244 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 245a be added after article 245a. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 246 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee and the Financial Committee submitted, in the same text, an amendment to Article 255. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment, the government too. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 255 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Sanja Cekovic and Vjerica Radeta submitted. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the proposal representative Mladjan Dinkic and Minister Predrag Bubalo want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours with the 8th and 9th points of the agenda.
