ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Thursday at Mr. Vukic's session, if you remember, he was talking about some radical, allegedly, who's got a rape application and I don't know, he was still out of here. I want it this time, since he's made a mistake with certain MPs, so they're beginning to suspect me, to say that there's any rape, any radicals, and that there is, I don't know. As for the transfer to the DS, it was by the board of directors of Surcin. So I want to remove every dilemma, because I see some MPs talking to me that way, and I want to just clean that up and fence myself. So the discussion ran that it was in very twisted shape and nobody's name was mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25689	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Please, in the voting day, don't do that kind of replica, but when the whole vote is over. Thank you all for understanding. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, a abstentioned one, no vote of 18, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Stevovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 20 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have finished voting on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro by credit to the International Development Association (Second loan for structural adjustment – Republika Srpska), in general. For 121, a abstentioned one, not seven, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on credit to the International Development Association (Second Structural Adjustment Loan – Republika Srpska). We move on to the 15th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND CREDIT BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR Development (CREDIT FOR THE Development OF THE PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR) Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the credit of the International Development Association (Credit for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector), in principle. For 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted by six, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Milovan Radovanovic.. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have finished voting on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the credit of the International Development Association (Credit for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector), in general. For 125, the three abstentions were not voted by three, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed the bill by granting counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the International Development Association (Special and Financial Sector Development Credit). We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DANIUM CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR RURALITY ( FIRST CREDIT FOR PROGRAMME RURGEMENTS IN PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR) Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the International Development Association (First loan for programme policy development in the private and financial sectors), in principle. For 114, it did not vote 14 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, 14 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 22, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Mit Avramov submitted to the Fourth Amendment. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, 21 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 108, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro by credit to the International Development Association (First loan for programme policy development in the private and financial sectors), in general. For 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the International Development Association (First loan for programme policy development in the private and financial sectors). We move to the 17th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DECLARATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE GERMAN FINANCIAL ORGANISATION OF KFW ON THE DESCRIPTION OF THE JP "ELECTROPREVRED OF SERBIA" FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECT FOR THE PURCHASE OF THE MIDDLE EQUIPMENT FOR THE REQUIREMENT OF THE SUPPORT OF THE DARKING OF THE SERVANTS. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" to finance the project for the purchase of mining equipment for the needs of the surface spear "Tamnava - the Western field", in principle. For 122, seven of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 18 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, 16 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zlatko Radic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 22, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" to finance the project for the purchase of mining equipment for the needs of the surface digger "Tamnava - Western Field" in general. For 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivred Serbia" to finance the Project for the acquisition of mining equipment for the needs of the surface spear "Tamnava - Western Field". We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE CODE LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Cooperative Act, in principle. For 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the Cooperatives Act in general. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Cooperative Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Thank you. (The session is over at 13.30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25690	THE THIRD SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION ON 17 April 2006 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 13.30 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that we have the conditions to begin a new session. There is no notice of the prevention of the MPs from attending the session. According to Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Monday, April 17, 2006, at 11.00 hours, so, past the day and time set out in the position of the first member of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft laws of the proposed agenda of this session as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 27, 28, 29 March and 3 April 2006. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes for the previous sessions. I would like to inform you that, by taking into account the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes of that sitting. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 27, 28, 29 March and 3 April 2006. For 125, he did not vote one out of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 1st session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 27, 28, 29 March and 3 April 2006. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 March 2006, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, he did not vote one out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on the implementation of the public procurement procedure for the external audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the mandatory social security organisations for 2002 be put on the agenda. In 2003 and 2004, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Two out of 126 MPs voted for 124. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The National Assembly's Finance Committee proposed that the draft decision on the implementation of the public procurement procedure for the external audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia and the 2005 mandatory social security organisations, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2006, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Two out of 126 MPs voted for 124. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Excuse me, please, we have to repeat the vote, because there are no 126 cards inserted at this time. We need to re-establish the quorum. Since the application of the electronic system has established that 126 MPs are now present, we can vote on the agenda of the session, in general. Since we have come to the conclusion of proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Two out of 126 MPs voted for 124. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Churches and Religious Communities, submitted by the Government (Number 011-500/06, from 6 March 2006), 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Telecommunications, which was submitted by the Government (Number 345-728/06, from 31 March 2006), 3. Proposal for a decision on the implementation of the public procurement procedure for the external audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia and the mandatory social security organisations for 2002, 2003 and 2004, submitted by the Financial Committee (number 400-831/06, since 13 April 2006), 4. Proposal for a decision to implement the public procurement procedure for the external audit of the final account of the Republic of Serbia and the 2005 mandatory social security organisations, which was submitted by the Finance Committee (number 400-832/06, as of 13 April 2006, 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly (as set out in 20 April 2006). Paused until 14.40 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're moving to work towards the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Churches and Religious Communities (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on European Integration. At a session of the Committee on European Integration, MP Ksenija Milivojevic issued an opinion on the draft law in principle. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for the constituency groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Milan Radulovic, minister of religion, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25693	Dear People's MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to you to consider and adopt the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. Few assembly assemblies in Serbia's history from 1804 to today have faced a challenge, a test of conscience and responsibility to discuss such a law. This is the fifth or sixth time so far, if we consider changes. That's because these laws are rarely passed. They are only brought in when the social order or the state arrangement of a country is changed. At the same time, every state, when it establishes its legal order and when it adopts the Constitution, the first thing it does after the constitution is the adoption of laws on churches and religious communities. These laws, of course, were called differently. The first such law in modern Serbia was passed right after the Sretenjski Constitution. The Happy Constitution was adopted in 1835, and the principle of spiritual authority was adopted in 1836. The law has been valid for longer than the Happy Constitution that has been suspended. In the 19th century, only twice, when the Constitution was changed, church laws changed. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the law was changed because the state order was changed, because several churches that had not previously been part of the Kingdom of Serbia entered the state, so it was necessary to regulate their position by law. In the second half of the 20th century, there was only one law on churches and religious communities, called the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities. The law was passed in 1953 and was valid until 1993, therefore, for 40 years. Meanwhile, the state's constitution, which with constitutional amendments, was changed, which was completely new to constitutional solutions, but the law remained in force. He was, however, taken from federal level to republican in 1977, but nothing in him was changed. In 1993. The National Assembly, the MPs sitting here in these benches, decided to suspend the law, to pull it out of legal traffic, and the new one didn't bring it. Why did they propose to withdraw this law from legal traffic? Because the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities was typical of a single-party system, for a communist arrangement. He was completely compatible with that political, ideological and social order. In 1993 and before 1993, already in 1990 and 1991, Serbia became a multi-party state. It was no longer one-party and was no longer ideological monolithic, but had more parties and more ideologies that participated in the formation of social space and political scene and were trying to articulate the path that Serbia as a society, as a state, should move on. Since 1993, when the law was abolished, to this day, all governments have tried to pass this law. That law is a simple obligation, because we have a 1990 constitution. That constitution was not followed by the church law. No new law has been passed that will regulate the new position of churches as envisaged by the constitution, which allowed the freedom of political organisation, allowed a multi-party system, opened the door to the market economy and, in general, with some restrictions that went as relapses of former ideology, the constitution was a major step in democratic order, in the transformation of Serbia from a single-party monodeological state into multilateral plural democracy. Why hasn't anyone been able to propose this bill by now? My answer to this question is very simple. In order to come to the proposal of this law, it is necessary that society has a clear idea of itself, that it is self-aware, and that the state knows which direction it is going, in which history flows enter and what historical projections it opens and accepts. We are not yet a society that has reached a unanimous attitude, what is called a national consensus, about what kind of society we want to be, what kind of state we want to be, what as a state we predict, how we project our future, what direction we want to go. In addition to these disagreements on the political scene, this law needed to reconcile very much the partial interests of individual churches and religious communities, most often co-operated, but whose historical experience and whose unorthodox and cultural orientation is incompatible, diversified, contradictory. In the end, we had to overcome a concept that lasted a long time and that is still in force today, that is, to redefine the principle of separation of state and church. The principle of separation of state and church has been interpreted for decades so that between church and state there must be a Berlin Wall, that the church can only do its basic work. That he deals with religious rituals, and that he has very limited opportunities to deal with education, culture, and that there is no access to public life or public sphere. That, of course, wasn't always so drastic in practice, there were good examples, there were also very bad examples. All in all, the principle of separation of state and church some of our educators still interpret today as having no right to be in public life, as if it were an exotic little community from some past times, which cannot participate in social life, in all kinds of social life, and cannot have the rights of other organizations and institutions in society. I understand that enlightening concept, but he's out of line today. He's outdone everywhere, especially in Western Europe. You gentlemen know that recently, a year and a half ago, a very big debate was held on the EU Constitution. The main dispute at the very beginning was whether the EU constitution would enter into the preamble the view that the United Europe's value system has its source and its foothold in Christianity. All the churches asked for it to enter the preamble. There have been many fluctuations; all the parties to the right centre, all the people's parties have accepted, all the left parties and the Social Democrats have rejected the proposal. In the end, that attitude did not enter the preamble, but neither did the constitution. I will not say that the constitution has not passed because of this, but I suppose the EU Constitution for citizens of Europe would be much more acceptable if that position were in preamble. He's mastered another attitude. What attitude? He prevailed that the European system of values must rest on the ideology of enlightenment; therefore, the view that Christianity did not give rise and that it is not the source of a valuable system that unites Europe, but that it is enlightenment. That's how it's left for now. However, in Western Europe – whether this attitude will enter the preamble of the constitution or not – no one today denies the fact that it is a Christian value system, that the spiritual experience gathered in churches, that the cultural system, the moral principles set out in churches, is a guideline for the EU. No one denies the view that religion, primarily Christian religion, is a spiritual basis and a spiritual substrate of united Europe. The United Europe, repeated by all politicians, cannot be united only on economic interests. She's not the only economic interest community, she's a value community. We listen to it all the time and it's become almost one political phrase. What does it mean that Europe is a community of values? This means that the united Europe has its own unique spiritual system that accepts as common to all peoples. This unique spiritual system is founded in Christianity, for three reasons. First, no one like the church is capable of respecting a person. Europe and Enlightenment Ideology are resting on respect for individuals, individuals. However, this respect for personality is always relative in civil society, as well as in all ideological and philosophical concepts after Christianity. In Christianity, personality is absolute. The first personality of God, the personality of man, and the personality of man, the man of this earth. Why is personality absolute? Because, according to the understanding of the church, no man – no difference in religion, nation, origin, ideologicality, material status, full belongings – can ever be rejected. The church is the only facility that never rejects any man. The church is open to every man, everyone wants to accept, and every man respects. The second principle on which a united Europe rests is a cult of freedom. Freedom is also interpreted in two ways. Once upon a time, freedom is the right of a man to do whatever he wants and to let go of all his instincts. According to the understanding brought by the church, which is also embedded in the political ideology of a united Europe, freedom is, in the simplest way, the human right to be free. A man is free because his freedom is endowed with God. No one must or may not end that freedom. No one in the church remembers that it restricts the freedom of another man because it is considered from the point of view of a believing man a rebellion against God’s will and his plans. That's right, because if God created man free, man can't limit his freedom. Such an understanding of freedom to the churches is close for another important reason. They will not break the principle of freedom, first, because it is against God's will and God's plans and secondly, they cannot break the principle of freedom because they respect man, because he is a man who must be respected, respected as a person. The church can reject, and the churches reject each other's teachings, but the church never rejects the believers of those other churches. They only dispute with learning, but not with a man who confesses that teaching and who belongs to that teaching. In short, today's Europe and today's Serbia are entering that new civilization horizon that realizes that churches and religious communities have gathered in themselves great spiritual experiences that can be very useful to regulate relations in a united Europe. They can primarily be useful as a correction, but they can be useful and as an incentive to determine the right measures of freedom and to determine the true dignity of a person. The dignity of personality and total freedom – these are the spiritual values on which a united Europe rests. With all this in mind, bearing in mind the Serbian legal tradition, bearing in mind the Serbian cultural tradition, we have proposed a law to meet this European definition. We have proposed a law offering cooperation to churches and religious communities. We churches and religious communities do not force co-operation, we do not want to determine in any way which form and what kind of cooperation will be, but we are obliged by law to assume that cooperation between the church and the state in achieving the general good is possible and desirable; on the side of the state is desirable, and the churches themselves will respond as much as they accept or do not accept this call for co-operation. Because, by this law, and that is its value, a complete autonomy of churches has been established. The church, therefore, is independent of the state and the church is separate from the state in the sense that it is completely autonomous. All democratic societies have come to a simple awareness that each democratic plural order must have two legal systems within it. One is a civil justice system, the other is a church legal system. These two legal systems must find conditions for co-existence and mutual co-operation. The bill, which is before you, establishes the principle of church autonomy, on the one hand, and the state's offer, on the other hand, to co-operate with churches, to allow church space to work positively in society, to transfer its spiritual experiences, its cultural values to the whole of society, to its moral principles (and these moral principles, I guess, no one disputes, are the highest form of morality that is possible to imagine) free affirmations in society. That's the point and that's the purpose of this law. The goal is, on the one hand, to guarantee each individual complete religious freedom, to guarantee him the right to believe that he does not believe that he belongs to a church, that he does not belong to a church, that he belongs to this church or that religious community. On the other hand, the law aims to provide collective religious rights. Collective religious rights are manifested in churches and religious communities. This law offers everyone the opportunity to co-operate with the state. To co-operate primarily on the plan to improve general culture, religious culture, general education and religious education. This law was written in good faith for Mrs. Nestorovic, because it is anti-discrimination, because this is a law that tries to save the holders of faith in Serbia from discrimination that they have been exposed to for decades, and this discrimination has been reflected in the following: if a child is enrolled in religion, Catholic high school or some medres in Novi Pazar or Belgrade, the parent whose child went there lost his right to a personal allowance even though he was fulfilling other conditions, because his child does not go to school? That child was having a hard time achieving other social benefits. Parents whose children went to religious schools had to pay boarding school more expensive than any other boarding school. Why? Because the state touched all high school boarding schools except for religious school boarding schools. And why didn't she touch the boarding schools? Well, just because she didn't think it was an education at all, that it was the kind of education that the citizens of this country needed. The anti-discrimination law is so much so that it helps and opens up opportunities for priests and religious officials in more favourable conditions to exercise their pension and social rights. True God, despite the fact that the communist regime was rigid towards the church, or it was completely indifferent, or at some stages it was antagonist with churches, communist Serbia had paid pension and social insurance to priests and religious servants in different amounts until 1990: from 70% began, so when it came to 3% then it no longer made sense and it was abolished. This law doesn't introduce any newspapers. We strive to preserve, sublimize, and install everything that has been positive experiences in the relations of the state and the church. Positive experiences in relations between the state and the church are that the state and the church respect each other, that's what's least; that they co-operate with each other – that's what's most. And all of our experiences from 1804 to 1941 were based on the fact that the state and the church cooperated in certain tasks of general good and of common national and state interest. We're restoring that good tradition and we want to reconfirm it. This good tradition of ours is fully in line with the most important movements and aspirations in Europe's political and cultural space today. We are taking a strong step in the process of EU accession negotiations because we are legitimateizing ourselves as a multi-religious state, which respects all churches and religious communities, which is automatically multi-confessional because the local population is divided into very many churches and religious communities; among the local population there is not one church that exists in Europe that does not have its supporters in Serbia – smaller, larger, rooted, unrooted, but has them. We affirm, too, some positive experiences from the communist period. A positive experience from the communist period, although churches have been demoted, although they were initially persecuted, is that the state does not interfere with internal church affairs or at least not to interfere openly. In the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the state, since it worked closely with the church, had certain powers in purely internal church relations. In the communist Yugoslavia, the state had no open authority; and if it was hidden it was a special story, that is not what we are going to do. We accepted the old principle that the state and the church cooperated, and we accepted what was right from the second half of the 20th century, which is that the church is autonomous. We did not, however, accept the prejudice that the church is some ghettoized, small, outdated organization that has no right to enter society. We don't introduce a church into the state by this law. We're just showing where the place is and what possible role the church plays in society. And the church will use its role and place, offered by this law, in the best possible way. This is an invitation for the churches themselves to re-pick and condense their forces, their spiritual energies, and to step more strongly into public life with constructive (and always so step forward), sober, spiritually thought-out and useful, morally based views on general issues concerning the entire nation and state. After all, all churches and religious communities, primarily the Christian Church in Europe, perform strongly in the sphere of politics. They declare themselves on the processes of globalisation. They say: the process of globalisation – if it means losing national identities, if it means losing religious identities, if people lose their own self-loathing, if individual and small cultures are completely unified – is a process that is dangerous, unacceptable. The unification of Europe and the process of globalisation should mean respect for the differences, respect for all peoples, traditions, cultures and religions. Since churches in Europe play a strong role in correcting the meaning and content of globalisation and openly offering a spiritual basis for united Europe, they are increasingly present throughout Europe in political life. Not all are present in Serbia's political life. At least they are present in Serbia's political life. They are very present in the political life of all countries of Europe, the European Union in the first place, because they want to be corrective, to warn that the process of globalisation cannot end well if it goes and is based solely on economic interests. The cult of economic interests, the cult of money, destroys Christian morality, destroys human morality, because man prevents solidarity, from wanting to be in the community with others, to share the troubles and the good that he has with others. The cult of money, the cult of power – is a cult of hedonism and a cult of consumerism. So, definition: we produce as much as we can to spend, is a certain, not a small danger to Christian churches, to their culture, to their spirituality and their value system. That's why all Christian churches in Europe cooperate today. The most open, most lively, much-lived dialogue with Europe is held by the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church in Serbia rather than by any political party. They're in constant dialogue. In this ongoing dialogue, called ecumenical dialogue, they are trying to articulate a common strategy and common attitude towards the historical challenges facing humanity; and the process of globalisation is the challenge humanity faces. It's not utopia, it's not a path into any happy future. It is equally a road full of dangers that should be predicted and avoided in time and achieved so that it does not turn against itself and that it does not ultimately undo the will, the self-loathing, the face, the tradition, the culture of the people who have believed in the projects of globalisation. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't talk here about the individual solutions that were given in the Law. There will also be words in the discussion in particular, as well as in the discussion in principle. I have made sure to present to you the historical, cultural, political and civilization context in which this law was created that is offered to the National Assembly for adoption. The National Assembly is a place where different concepts will be heard about the place of the church in society. Whether she has room or not, whether she has the right to have a place in public life or not; if she has a place, what her role is and what the state can do to make her place and her role fully guaranteed by law. We avoid any thought of giving up lawmaking so that we can continue to cooperate with the church without law. The co-operation of the state and the church must be legal. Can't be arbitrary, can't be volunteering, can't be used for political purposes. This law protects the church, and it also protects the state by establishing fully correct relations. In the end, it should also be said that this law guarantees the rights of all. This law does not involve any dogmatic disputes between churches. Among Christian churches, there are many internal factions. They don't agree with each other. The state cannot be an instrument that rules out these dogmatic disputes. The state only speaks of believing people and guarantees their rights, and internal co-operation between churches, internal disputes, all of this is part of their inner freedom. Ending this too long letter and expecting with pleasure to hear different concepts and a different philosophy and a different ideology in treating the relationship between the state and the church, I would just like to say that we are the only European state that does not have this law. It's time we had this law. Time was long ago, time was right after the Constitution was passed in 1990, time was every year. We have come to the situation that we have been able to agree on the views of all churches and religious communities in Serbia, large and small, and we have come to a state when the majority consciousness prevailed in Serbia, which claims that between the state and the church there is no need to raise the Berlin Wall and that the principle of separation of the state and the church does not involve non-cooperation, neither implies indifference, but implies co-operation. By offering the co-operation of churches and religious communities offered by all European countries, such as European democratic states have never interrupted, including in the new process in which churches in Europe go public and begin to declare their common views on civilization issues, we are actually involved in these processes by this law, and by opening up our churches the possibility of doing the same here, and not being forced to pursue only dialogue with churches in Europe, but also in Serbia. And not only do they have dialogue with political structures in Europe, but they can have free dialogue with political forces in their country, because they will have something to say in this dialogue. In doing so, all responsibility for any political decision, including responsibility under this law, will always be on politicians alone, cannot be at all at church. It is incorrect to manipulate the church and transfer to it responsibility. We are responsible for everything we decide and how we decide. If we are sober politicians, we will hear what and how about some phenomena, some processes – cultural, social, historical – say churches and religious communities; and they have something to say because they have collected the essences of existential experiences. When he lost faith both in philosophy and in ideology and in the system, the people returned to the churches, expecting the church to tell the man what and how in that wind and in that wasteland he was in. What about the situation where it got under the feet? What do you do when a state fell apart, when ideology broke down, when civil wars started? The people spontaneously recognized that the church in its experience had effective answers to these questions. That's why the people returned to churches and religious communities. Just in response to those who claim (a brief answer, I won't get much into the controversy) that this government is too fond of the church. Churches and religious communities have returned to the public, in social life, by believing the people, my dear gentlemen, because by believing the people addressed those organizations that were once marginalized. He turned to find guidance in the historical abyss and existential seal he found himself in. He addressed them to the extent that in the 2002 census, 95% of Serbia's population said it belonged to churches and religious communities. No more, or very few, free shooters in that space. In addition to the Institute of Citizenship, which covers 100% of people, the largest institute, the largest institution, the widest system in Serbia are churches and religious communities. They gather, they gather the most people with them. So when we consider this law, we need to be careful. We must be aware that we, our citizens, Serbian citizens, are showing this law respect for their religious membership and their religious organizations. We give their religious communities the opportunity to breathe full lungs and to be able to act more freely in Serbia. This law is anti-discrimination. This is a law that promotes religious freedoms in Serbia. This is a law that promotes human rights in Serbia. This is a law that represents a very good incentive to develop both political and general culture and develop religious culture in Serbia. Religious culture and religious education everywhere in Europe are very high values, values that are embedded in the system of secular civilization as fully equal forms and forms of cultural action. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to inform you that, by Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today we will extend our working hours to the end of the debate on the first item of the agenda in principle. Do any of the boards of directors want a word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Ksenija Milivojevic, who has issued an opinion on the Committee, want to explain? He's not here. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, I must say that it is a great honor for me to say that you from the position of the minister of mine by name and last name, as an MP, here in some way, no matter what I say to you right now, with everything you've said here, I don't agree. It's your right to think the way you think. I'll keep my thoughts different. I think you're more involved here with the position of interest of the church itself or the churches and religious organizations. To me, your speech was more like the speech of the bishop, not the speech of a man who should primarily represent the interests of all citizens, regardless of whether they were even religiously defined and independent of how they were religiously defined. The platform from which you spoke, about from which it could have been concluded that by this moment the church was in an unequal position, so this law will allow it to have minor human rights for those who represent it, I must begin with to deny you. First of all, I want to say that my deepest impression is that the Ministry of Faith is acting all the time as the Ministry of Promotion of the Church, and above all, the SPC, and I will deny you with certain data. So, the SPC and its privileged position in the state are reflected in the fact that priests have largely joined the military and police, even the Commission for Consciousness; that the SPC has great importance at the Book Fair, even with the special street of Nikola Velimirovic, and not with what I think about his work; through the introduction of religion, it has entered the educational system, pervading an increasing number of media. Its representatives have entered a large number of important institutions, such as the Broadcasting Council, the Educational Council and other state and para-state bodies. Foreign directors of public enterprises and embassies use the opportunity to invite priests to avenge the buildings of enterprises and embassies, a series of public institutions of the secular state has its own glory. So these are all concrete evidence that we can't do any more here, if we could somehow, and we've been talking about it for a long time, that it's a church, and therefore both religious rights and religious feelings of those who belong to certain churches that are in any way threatened. I even think they're privileged. Here's what I'm saying, first of all, on behalf of the SDP. The draft law on churches and religious communities is a very rigid interference in the very principle of division of churches and states, i.e. in the character of secular state. Contrary to the declared priority political objective, which is that Serbia becomes a member of the EU as soon as possible, and all processes that are currently under way in line with the achievement of the so-called objective, I am primarily referring to the process of association and stabilisation and the harmonisation of our legislation with the laws currently in force in the EU, we have a law on the agenda that violates the basic principle of separation of the church from the state, established at the end of the 18th century in the French Revolution. At first, I would also like to point out that the negative opinion on this proposal is, all MPs here know it, and I think that the public is also familiar with the Council of Europe, and the Venice Commission and the OSCE, and have pointed to the discrepancies of the solution offered by this law with those principles, the laws that are being respected today in the EU. The rule is that democracy can only develop in secular societies and states. Serbia, which tends to become democratic, whose representatives in all negotiations and performances in international institutions highlight Serbia's democratic potential, should not, until the end, deny itself by passing a law that represents a project of radical change in the character of our society and whose goal is either one of Serbia's demodernisation objectives. The first principle that shows this radical change is to legitimise the political role of the church and its undiscovered ambition to become an unspeakable arbitrationist in the most important issues, especially those which are unequivocally political. It's about political integration of state and church. The bill finds that the SPC has an exceptional historical, state-of-the-art and civilization role to play in shaping, preserving and developing the identity of the Serb people. It may be undeniable, but since it has no binding character, it should not stand in the law, it may stand in a declaration, but it is not a place in this law. This article explicitly acknowledges the sovereignty of the church and affirms the merger of the church and state, and the church promotes itself as a political partner of the state. In Article 7. The proposal for this law provides that the State shall provide adequate assistance for the enforcement of judicial judgments and decisions issued by the competent authorities of churches and religious communities at their request and in accordance with the law. Churches and religious communities are allowed to comply with their internal rules without any restrictions. It is incomprehensible that this bill attaches the same legal importance to the judgments of state courts and decisions of religious communities, which is nowhere but fundamentalist theocratic states. This opens the door to a parallel legal system, removed from the control of legislative and administrative bodies. Furthermore, the law stipulates that a priest, or a religious official, has the right to participate in all kinds of public life, unless it prohibits him from having a church or a religious community, without detailing ways, as well as that worship and religious rituals can be performed in schools, hospitals, military and police facilities, social and childcare institutions, institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions and other institutions, with the obligation of the state to make that possible. I'm reading all the literal definitions of this law. This clearly raises the principle of separation of the state from the church, which is provided for in Article 41. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, since it allows the presence of churches and religious organisations in institutions that represent and symbolize the state a couple of excellencies. It's about full church infiltration into the social system and trying to turn the state into a church service. Evidence of the removal of the secular state, in my deep conviction, does not require further argument. The second event is the creation of privileged church oligarchy. They clearly speak of solutions in the law that the state undertakes to allocate funds from the budget for receiving and social giving to the clergy, while at the same time exempting them from paying taxes and other donations to the state. It also provides for a law that the local self-government authority is obliged to take into account the needs of churches and religious communities to build religious buildings into account when drawing up urban plans. It is not clear that churches and religious communities must adhere to urban plans and regulations governing this area. The privilege specifically indicates a provision in the law that says - the state cannot interfere with the application of autonomous regulations of churches and religious communities, until vice versa. There is no principle established that churches and other religious communities are obliged to respect the state legal system, nor is a ban on disrupting the state in the application of state law. Article 9 states that organisations and institutions of churches and religious communities can acquire legal personality in accordance with the autonomous regulations of churches and religious communities. So this has no other association of citizens, no trade organization, no one has other than churches, so they determine their own legal personality based on their own application. I remind you, this issue is in the exclusive domain of state law, Article 72 paragraph 1 point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this solution is against the constitution. All this is about the creation of privileged church oligarchy. The third event stemming from this bill is the acceptance of religious indoctrination under the blessing of the state. I'm very responsible when I say this. Chapter - Educational activity defines startling solutions. The state also guarantees full church autonomy in this area, allowing it to establish preschools, primary schools, high school, professional and artistic schools, and higher schools, colleges, even universities. Religious educational institutions are given organisational and programming autonomy. Churches and religious organizations are self-established by the curricula and the programme, textbooks and manuals, setting up, dispensing teaching and other staff and overseeing these institutions. In doing so, religious educational institutions have the right to initiate accreditation procedures to participate in the system of national education and, if they do, gain the right to finance from the budget. Even those religious educational institutions that are not included in the education system are foreseen to receive financial budget assistance, as is the law. So, privileges without obligation to respect the laws of the state. The education to be conducted becomes autonomous in relation to educational laws and is, therefore, against educational laws and what is otherwise the authority of the Ministry of Education. We already have practice and this practice has shown, the Theological Faculty, the Faculty of Education has become an integral part of the state university, however, the state university has absolutely no right nor has it realised so far to implement what is the procedure in all other parts of the university. So there's no monitoring of what's actually going on, which rules apply at the Faculty of Education, what's the content of the textbook, at least to that elemental extent. Religious institutions are allowed to autonomously determine a program that will be studied from primary, pre-school to higher education, completely left to them at will what will be studied in subjects such as biology, literature, such as history. There are absolutely no criteria under which these accreditations will be assigned. When professors are elected at state universities, they go through several instances, their biography and bibliography are checked, and if they continue to say or do something that is subject to sanctions, they are properly sanctioned and in accordance with the law. According to this law, this will not apply to religious educational institutions and lecturers who are employed there. If there are arguments, I'd really like to be denied. Looking at the law and consulting certain people, I couldn't find it. If I wanted to be cynical, and I really don't want to, I could say that in this law there is only a provision by which the church has the right to a certain number of MPs. This is all imposed on this written bill, one intensities to essentially give the church power. By adopting this law, Serbia will no longer be a secular state. We need a law on churches and religious communities, but in a domain that would regulate the way churches and religious communities are registered, as well as relations between religious communities, not to introduce the church into power and all spheres of social life without any control. Giving privileged status to church communities and religious education is the narrowing down of what we today in the modern world mean by state and society, especially under that particular – civil society. This law requires that the modern principles of civil society, adopted standards of human rights, be brought into line with ancient indigenous laws, therefore, with medieval laws. This bill is anti-European, I've already given enough arguments, which is why I think it's anti-constitutional, and for that I've cited the arguments, but I really think this law is anti-civilization, because civilization is a process that goes forward, and this law brings us back several centuries. I think the best solution is that the government withdraws this law and provides a serious public debate, because it is an area which, without any exaggeration, therefore without any patheticity, can fatefully determine the character of this society and this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25696	The word has a minister of religion, Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25697	I'm sorry, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't be returning very often, only when we need to clarify some principled views. Mrs. Nestorovic, I spoke to you a moment ago with real respect, counting and knowing that you and your party have a sense of disenfranchised in Serbia, and only in this sense did I urge you to support and trust a part of the disreputed people, to allow them to be equal. Where there is in principle an explanation among us, that is the claim that this is anti-civilization law. Your understanding of civilization is enlightening. Enlightenment of civilization implies that religion has a very small impact on the formation of the social and cultural horizon of a society. Civilizations existed before the Enlightenment, and all civilizations before the Enlightenment were religious civilizations. All civilizations today, which overcome the enlightening understanding of civilization and edifice ideology, and go beyond all European countries, are reopening the possibility of religion being energy and a factor in civilised, cultural and social life. The best examples for that are the ones you cited. For example, you're scandalizing what the law predicts that religious rituals can be held in the military. When Slovenia became a NATO pact member, it met all military standards and conditions. Then someone who ran this process remembered to ask -- people, where are your priests in military units? Slovenians were surprised - how did the priests? Now the Slovenians in every military unit must have a priest, because NATO is a pact based on American military doctrine. The U.S. military doctrine has changed several times, only it has never changed its position that every military unit must have a priest. You have, you said, a problem with the presence of religious teaching in primary and secondary schools. I'm giving you one reliable and verified information. Several months ago, in Kazakhstan, the Council of Europe held a large gathering organised by a committee or a committee for youth, education and sports. One of the conclusions of the summit is that the Council of Europe is launching an initiative to establish an institute for the religious education of European youth. They found that young people in Europe do not know religious facts and that an institute must be established to draw up a programme and propose textbooks for the study of all religions in Europe. At the request of Mrs Price, who is our ambassador on a permanent mission to the Council of Europe, I informed her of the state of affairs in Serbia. I said that the government formed a Committee on Religious Education, that the Commission represented representatives of all religious communities, that we have experts in the Commission, no politicians, no Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Faith, that they propose textbooks and training and training programmes. The answer from our mission to the Council of Europe is that at the next Council of Europe summit, Serbia's experiences will be a reference, everyone will say -- look up to Serbia. People know how to do that. Now you're telling us that we're passing some anti-European law here today. There's another problem. The main question is whether there can be two legal systems in one democratic state. Mrs. Nestorovic is terrified of the possibility that there are two legal systems. There is no European state in which two legal systems are not in place: the civil justice system (state, civil) and the legal system of churches and religious communities. Why is that? Because the legal systems of states, as well as states, societies, ideologies and cultures, were constantly changing, and the legal system of churches always remained the same. This permanent legal system is always incorporated into any civilian system, except when a civilian system is rigid and when it says - we do not recognise the legal order of churches. When the Law says that the church has its legislative authority, it is read like this: it has its own constitution, it has its own laws, its own courts. The church penal code is 19 times more extensive than the state code. Church law is more dissensive, older and more permanent than any legal system. That's why this legal system, this autonomous legal power of churches and religious communities can never be suspended. She exists. The only question is what kind of relationship we're going to have with that. Nowhere in Europe is it possible to enter a church and say - let's see how you apply your rights, whether you respect human rights, whether you expose the temptations in monasteries to too many obligations, whether you feed students well in worship, whether you make them fast on Wednesdays and Fridays, why they fast, they are young and should develop. I believe that doesn't come to your mind. It's not happening anywhere. It's the inner order. It's canonical law. It's no big deal that it exists. It would be terrible if he wasn't here. It is terrible if we fail to establish a constructive relationship with him, respect and recognition. This is our last principle difference, and we'd better cross these principle differences right now. It is absolutely impossible to say that here the church is becoming a political partner of the state. That's absolutely off. It's off for two reasons. The first reason is that this law does not allow; and the second, because internal church regulations, regulations of all churches and religious communities defend their priests and religious servants to engage politically in the daily sense. They encourage them to engage in humanitarian terms, socially, to gather together all the people, to establish the same relationship with all people, regardless of which political party they belong, to give spiritual comfort to everyone, that whoever asks them for any kind of help gets help. That's exactly why they can't be politicians. Do not be afraid, nor will the church seek, nor will it ever receive the quota to have its MPs here. It's not because, among other things, they're a bit of a liability and, with forgiveness, they don't think we're the best company for them. They're probably wrong, but they don't want to, and they forbid it, because a priestly invitation rules out the possibility of a priest dealing with politics, because if he belongs to a party, he doesn't belong to the people. The ministry of priests is a service to the people, not a service to political parties and political programs. So if we were able to articulate these principle differences, then we can talk later in detail. I accepted some of your amendments, I did not accept those amendments that you denied religious pluralism in Serbia, to which you denied acquired rights, amendments in which you claimed there was no Islamic Community, Jewish community, Protestant church, no Roman Catholic Church and no Serbian Orthodox Church. Good for this one, because you say we're definitely favoring it; for her we'd see right through your fingers. But as a minister of faith who seems to be speaking as a bishop, I do not allow you to deny that there is a Roman Catholic Church in Serbia. You cannot deny me that there is an Islamic community in Serbia. You suggested that all these members be deleted. And the communities show their identity in those members. What do we delete them for? They have a name, a name, a tradition, some of them exist. Do not overlook the particularity of social organisations that exist, who have their own name, who have their identity, and you as a party, as far as I know the ideology of social democracy, defend identity and right, and name and freedom of action of every organization. Then why limit the churches? They don't want any more than a union, or I don't know what organization you're close to. If he has a union right, he has a right and a church, which he doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25698	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. But, once again, there is now a principle debate, the debate in particular will probably be on Wednesday, and after that, at the end of that debate, Mr. Radulovic, you will have the opportunity to give the final word as a proposing representative. We now have reports, in order of replicas, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, and then MP Tomislav Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: The minister replied to her reply. Not on the line, I guess. I wasn't there. Was that a reply to the replica? Okay, well, I don't want to abuse this pay phone, just one curiosity. So, in no way, I suppose that the Lapsus, at the book fair, there is no street of any church, but the curiosity is that the organizer of the 2001 book fair introduced the schedule of exhibitors with street names, writers who have been neglected in different ways, from Stanislav Vinarev, Milos Crnjanski, Todor Manojlovic, to Nikolaj Velimirovic, and the curiosity consists of the same rule as the French book salon since 2003, so now they sort into so-called. The streets, they're not the streets. Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25699	I really don't want to turn this debate into a very serious debate right now. I also want to hear what my other fellow MPs have to say. I suppose they have some attitude on this important subject that we're discussing today. I just have to say, you totally misunderstood me. At no time was my intensity to challenge the existence of any religious organization, whether it was confiscate or how you've already defined them all in the law, I'm even going to a completely different extreme. So I admit that everyone has the right to believe what they want and that society is obliged to give him the right and to consume that right. I really don't know how you managed to understand through my amendments that my wish was to deny the existence of certain religious communities, and especially so large churches, such as the Catholic or Islamic Church, which have their own significant number of representatives, because we all know that even 30% of Serbian citizens, if we are already talking about which nationality, do not belong essentially to the Orthodox Church, and many of them do not want to be declared and not believe at all. I don't want to slow down the existence of churches at all, even the good part of them being there, even though I don't have the obligation to declare myself to be a religion. I am an Orthodox believer and I respect certain church rules, but it cannot be imposed on the state as something that must be separated from the church. There is no way that the state can be someone who meets the wishes of the church or the service of any of its wishes. Then we enter a really serious zone to break those basic postulates that stand in the Constitution, which are the liquids of civil society, which is that the church is completely separate from the state. Church laws are for church, state laws are for ministries. You're mostly talking about church positions here. You should defend the positions of civil society. No one wants to discriminate at all, but it must be quite clear what anyone in society is doing and what they're responsible for. The Church is responsible for enabling believers to communicate with God, if, of course, believers need this communication through the church, not to impose it, and the state, I guess, we don't have to repeat, we don't have to repeat what it's responsible for. I just deeply believe, and I think I've proved to you here, that this law deletes these borders, that some of the obligations of states that are not normal for a secular society are established. My deep impression is that in this way, the political partnership between the state and the church is essentially achieved. It's nothing new. I am fully behind the need to consult the church, that the church can discuss with its believers all the problems in society, including political ones, but it cannot be illustrated so clearly to the work of those representing the state. The church is absolutely included today, and very influentially, in all possible political negotiations held in Serbia. No one can deny that. The law legalises the church's right to deal with politics in a way that no one else in Serbia is allowed. To deal with politics here, you have to register as some kind of political organization that goes to elections, which people vote for, and then what happens happens happens. You can't get that exclusive right. Your solutions introduce these and many other inadmissible rights for the secular state, and I am absolutely certain that if not in this assembly, it is a huge number of people who support that attitude among the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25700	Once again, let's explain to the MPs. It was not the minister who spoke about the replica, but about the presentation that Mrs Nestorovic presented at the outset as president of the parliamentary group. I remind you once again, the debate in particular is not today. Mr. Nikolic, are you staying at the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present my position on this bill in the context of the discussion, but I am surprised, Mr. President, that you have not responded to at least two parts of the Minister's presentation and that you have not tried to preserve the integrity of the National Assembly by at least a small intrusion, and that you preserve its dignity. In fact, at the end of the presentation, the minister said that we were not afraid that the church would look for MPs, as the priests think, and then I asked him not to move on, because I knew that whatever he said would be wrong, in five seconds, you couldn't come up with the right answer, and then you said that this was not their proper company. The People's MPs, for not some who have been attacking us for months and years, have now begun to convey the church's position that we are not the proper society even for priests, and we are the people, Mr. Minister, regardless of who the political party belongs to. I was really deeply offended, and somehow it missed everyone here. And at the beginning of the presentation, you'll be more than happy to give us an example of Slovenia. I would ask all of you here for as many of you as there are in the Assembly, especially you from the Government, never to make an example of Slovenia again. I don't care if she could get into NATO until she gets a priest in some unit. How could she enter NATO when her soldiers killed JNA soldiers wearing a white flag. That wasn't a restriction. According to these murders, they were able to enter NATO. Now only the priests they didn't have in the units, it was that decisive condition for the Slovenian army to enter the NATO pact. So please, while you're here, you're putting out a bill that you've been working on for a long time, about which there are big disputes, many people are interested in both in church and outside the church. I don't think the law has defined all the wishes of a society like Serbia now. I ask you at least not to give examples that may make us more bitter, or even some MPs, to influence that because of what you say or how you say it changes their view of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25702	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, you're absolutely right. I'm sorry, with all due respect, I didn't follow up on the show. If it's an exact quote, I really apologize to everyone, but I guess that wasn't the intention, it certainly wasn't the intention. Here you are, Minister Radulovic, I would certainly react, as I always respond to the protection of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25703	If I didn't get you to apologize, I apologize. But I explained why priests don't do politics. Really because they have other jobs. And I missed the word: I should have said that this is not an appropriate environment, not a proper society, because the environment in which the priest lives is the church and the people around the church. But I said what I said, and I'm really sorry. This example with the NATO Pact, I just wanted to illustrate some of my thesis.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25704	Thank you, we accept your apology, I hope. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, first Mr. Radovanović, and then Mr. Dacic, it doesn't matter. First Mr. Dacic. Here you go, Mr. Dacic. This is a gentleman who's having a hard time getting in the way. You see, Minister, what is an example of tolerance. Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25705	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would not want to miss this opportunity to discuss this item of the agenda, and I would like to remind you that the subject of the Law on Churches and Religious Communities is a reminder of two facts. In Kosovo and Metohija, in the last few years, or to be more precise in the last few decades and centuries, the Serb churches are collapsing, Serbian history is collapsing, and this does not seem to be an obstacle to someone to Kosovo, independently or independently, or whatever you want, heading towards Europe. European officials and the international community do not look much at the fact that Serb churches, which are five or six centuries old, are being torn down. We were witnesses and day and day we witnessed television footage of Albanian hooligans tearing down the cross from the Serbian church, burning down Serbian churches. I would remind you that the video was not made by Serbian television houses and journalists, Serbian journalists sent the scene of a burning mosque to the world in Belgrade and Nis. And that's why when we talk about this topic today, about the church, about the religious communities, regardless of the separation of the church and the state, I have to remind you that we're talking about ourselves, about our people, about our country. Also, I would not like to miss this opportunity to say that you could hear from the Serbian bishops that the phenomenon of baptism is again emerging, namely the violent or voluntary transition of Serbs to Croatia and BiH into Catholicism. And that's why today when we talk about this subject, with all due respect to everyone who thinks differently about this subject, I have to say that a little bit of this reminds me of a time when someone shouldn't even mention that it's a Serbian Orthodox church, that it's a Serbian people and that through the civil state story, everything called Serbian in this country is being banned and blacked out. Of course, we are not for the clerical state, we are of course not for the connection of the church and the state in that sense, as someone here said that the minority church will have MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But from the presentation of some of our colleagues, who have often accused the SPS of a negative attitude towards the church, it seems to me that some would prefer this assembly to choose the Serbian patriarch. Or, by any chance, some of them were in power to tear down Serbian churches again or perform other rituals, not church, or performances. In any case, at the time of the SPS government, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, if anything, at least as a finding, to state, that the time of ten-year power of the SPS and the parties who supported that authority, and to say, in the time of the one-party system, is certainly a large number of church facilities were built in this state. That's true. Serbian Socialists did not tear down churches, Serbian Socialists in their programme have every right to believe or not to believe what they want. Also, I would not like to miss this opportunity to say that the churches today are filled with those who were baptized after October 5th and who have repeatedly seen the Serbian patriarch or the Serbian bishop than they have entered the church. Even today, when criticising some people this law or criticising the possibility that the Serbian Orthodox Church would say a word about political opportunities in this country, you should remind yourself that there was a time before they took the Serbian patriarch and Serbian bishops to their assemblies, when they led them to their demonstrations, when the minorities listened to everything the Serbian Orthodox Church said. According to the church, you must have the same relationship, the church should not influence politics in the sense that it makes key decisions, but has the right to express its opinion, and you cannot treat the church so that when it helps you, they are right, and when the bishop of Amphilochy Radovic, or Metropolitan, when he says at the funeral of Zoran Djindjic in his word, when he says - who is serving with the sword, will also die, that the minority may call on him to be arrested. After all, he didn't make it up, he repeated something that was said a few dozen centuries ago. When Amphilochya Radovic says those who handed Milosevic to Vidovdan, that they pushed him directly into the legend and wiped themselves out of Serbian history, then Serbian politicians reported and said -- what does the Serbian church have to interfere with politics. When the Serbian Orthodox Church says -- Serbs should not go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, then President Tadic says -- it is not a church thing to meddle in politics. And when Milosevic and SPS are about to collapse, then where are you, where are you gentlemen, only they're not told by Comrade Paul. So this is about whether or not we want the law. Otherwise, I don't think there are laws now. There's a law that's old, there's a practice that doesn't essentially make it impossible for religious communities to exist, a church, whatever you call them, traditional or not. I just want to remind you that this law can be observed bilaterally. On the one hand, the remarks come from those who feel that the law is too liberal and that it allows for practical legalisation and those religious communities that traditional churches consider to be sects, and on the other hand there are those concepts which, I say, are European, which think we do not need to write down any of what is in this area Serbianly in our laws or in our constitutions. They do not mind that some other religions are limited, but they are bothered by the existence of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Perhaps under the influence of Europe we will move on to a new calendar. Will you explain to Serbs that in 10 years, Serbs will have to stop celebrating the Serbian New Year, although maybe 99% of Serbs do not know what the Serbian New Year is. Will you explain to Serbs that Christmas will no longer be celebrated on January 7th but at the end of December? Why only the Serbian, Russian and Armenian churches do that. But that's the difference between orthodox churches and some others, between Orthodox churches and Roman Catholic churches. Also, as you know, there are about 150 organizations in our country that can be called religious communities. By some estimates, they gather nearly half a million people. So we're talking about organizations that aren't traditional churches. We're not talking about the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, we're not talking about Islam, we're not talking about Jews, we're talking about religious organizations that were formed either from Protestantism or from Eastern nature. After all, as you know, the sects are in some way certain groups that have their own course of opinion and that have separated themselves from that original teaching, and that represent so-called “the very beginning of the world. ” The quasi-religious groups, but they've acquired the right because some of them were registered under the earlier law. You now have a situation to be mentioned in this law as a confesional community Christian Baptist Church, Christian Adventivist Church, Evangelist Methodist Church, Pentecostal Church, Evangelical Christian Church, etc. I would remind Mr. Minister, and he knows it well, that some of these religious organizations, in the opinion of the Serbian Orthodox Church, are not sects, but quasi-religious groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25706	Are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25707	I'm using. After all, there are many directions in Christianity, and you all know it well. In addition to this global division of orthodox and Roman Catholics, Martin Luther's reformation appeared, many sects developed from Protestantism, among the Serbs appeared in the second half of the 19th century and were the first to be seen, and in the opinion of the Serbian Orthodox Church, they are today saboteurs, adventists, Baptists, baptists, Mormons, Jehovah’s Witnesses, the Christian Pentecost Church, Methodists, the New Apostolic Church. Of course, you have various eastern movements, such as Hare Kreshna, transcendental meditation, yoga flyers, etc. Today, when we talk about these things, we can have very unserious access to this whole subject, but there is a theory of psychology of the so-called principle. Boiled frogs. If you put a frog in hot water it will pop out, if you put it in the cold and gradually warm the water it will practically cook alive. That's how it works with a change of consciousness. This is about our children being victims of organizations like this. He's got that every day. If someone doesn't know what we're talking about, they certainly have 200 religious communities in Belgrade, and only 40 are registered. The most critical is of course in Vojvodina, where more than 60 sectarian associations operate, there are more than 10,000 members etc. You remember 13 years ago, on June 3, 1993, soldier Joseph Meneder killed six soldiers, one ensign, in a barracks in Vranj, and then I took my own life. The investigation showed that the killer had a tattooed date on his left forearm on his left forearm on June 3, 1993, and in his room in the parent's house were found symbols of satanists, metal reverse cross, reverse pentagram and magazine on the subject of "bad religion". Similar mass killings took place in a barracks in Capac and Triestenik. Then, the suicides of students. There are sects that talk about children having to kill one of their family members, and if not, they have to kill themselves. Today, when we talk about all this, we only talk about European integration. I cannot understand, Mr. President of Parliament and Mr. Minister, which is why the Committee on European Integration is responsible for this law. What does this have to do with European integration? This has to do with the integration of the citizens of this country. Could the citizens of this country, who belong to different religions, integrate into one society and into one country without being disfellowshipped because they belong to one religion or another. So when we talk about this topic, we have to keep two sides of the problem in mind. One problem is traditional churches, among other things, what interests me most is certainly the Serbian Orthodox Church. Is the Serbian Orthodox Church satisfied with this bill? I'm asking the minister for an answer. Since the Holy Archaeological Synod had certain objections to this law, I think it would be your turn to introduce us to their observations and what they think of this law. I don't think this country should pass laws against its church. Perhaps someone will understand that it offends other traditional churches, this is Serbia, this is the state of the Serbian people and all other citizens of Serbia and we apologize to everyone else, but as in all countries in the world, it is probably the most important thing that the Serbian Orthodox Church thinks about it. Everything else is very important, of course, and when you speak to other traditional churches, talk to the Roman Catholic Church in Belgrade: what kind of ecumenical dialogue is it if Serbs are baptized? Who will call on the Pope to visit Belgrade without apologizing for the abuses of the Ustasha against the Serbs? Tadic apologized in all order, and Marovic. Maybe he hasn't arrived yet, I don't know who he hasn't apologized to yet, but in any case, they can apologize to themselves for being in those functions. You have a situation that the Islamic Community and today, not in Belgrade, but in the environments next to us, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or in Sandzak, you have active participants in religious rituals, or priests who are practically paramilitary formations such as Wahhabi, from which members of the white al-Qaeda are recruited, etc. After all, you saw that terrorists were recently arrested in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is also said that Bin Laden had a Bosnian passport and was in Kosovo. That is one aspect of the problem: the attitude of traditional churches according to this law. The other aspect is indeed what can rightly be asked as a question in general euphoria that sometimes does not know where the border is, we absolutely advocate that the SPC and all other traditional churches, and those religious organisations that are registered, have the right to freedom and all those who believe in them and believe in God or anyone else whom they so consider to be free, and that no one threatens their right. But, on the other hand, those achievements of modern civilizations that speak of the separation of the church and the state must also be respected. Here we agree with some discussions that speak of the need not be exaggerated in this general euphoria. But again, I would remind everyone, don't complain to anyone else, because you've introduced all these customs into Serbia's political life, because you didn't mind getting revenge on all the rooms where the Socialists used to be, that Satans were supposed to be expelled. You didn't mind calling church dignitaries when the former government was about to collapse. Now that some of the church dignitaries speak uglyly of those who came to power after October 5th, these statements now bother you. After all, the church and the state's relationship has long been defined by God, the emperor's emperor. As for that, I don't think we should have any other illusions. In the end, I just want to say that the SPS for religious freedom, for the freedom of operation of traditional churches, but against the introduction of clericalism into Serbia's political life, and the separation of the church from the state is important. On the other hand, it is very important that lately fashion has become baptized. I was baptized when it was normal. I did not participate in the persecution of church dignitaries and in their riding, so that I would go to various church rituals with them afterwards. I have the impression that some of them, of those DOS officials who came to power after October 5th, when some church dignitary brings them a cross to kiss him running away with their heads no matter what. They're just not used to it. They've been working differently for years. After all, it is well known who flees from the cross, and what is said to the people, how and why he flees from the cross. Anyway, this law is necessary. It is important not to create chaos in two directions: not to limit the freedom of the church; and on the other hand, not to introduce clericalism into Serbia's political life. In that sense, the SPS advocates finding a common language with traditional churches. On the other hand, no obligation can be introduced anywhere that can introduce any clericalism into Serbia, because the separation of the church from the state is the achievement of the modern world, which the modern world achieved over a hundred or two hundred years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25708	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. The word has Milovan Radovanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS for this part of the agenda. The clarification, you will allow me, since many are confused, after which Mr. Kurjački will, there is often a problem of formal-legal nature for some laws, where there is simply no competent committee in advance by definition. Then a special decision is made. Since you know that we have amended the Rules of Procedure, we have defined that the Committee on European Integrations also declares on legal proposals that can touch points with the issue of integration, and this time it has been decided to obtain all objections from the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the Venice Commission, all interested, traditional churches and religious communities in one place. Simply so as not to have a double conversation, that is why a month and a half ago, when this law entered into the ordinary procedure, it was determined to be this committee and, on the other hand, I believe that it was possible to bring the entire series of amendments that were given to this law into line. In any case, MPs will decide in the principle of debate and debate in particular on this. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic. Thank you for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25709	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the need to pass a special law on churches and religious communities doubtless exists and it is not at all controversial. Many issues need to be regulated in the field of state and church relations and religious communities, such as the legal position of churches and religious communities, the status of property, the way of funding, the social rights of priests, students, students of religious schools, the place and the role of religious education, and especially what needs to worry about all of us are the problems of abuse of religious freedoms. So, I'm sure that, Mr. Minister, you agree with me as an SRS MP, especially if you are both professionally in this area and what needs to be appreciated, it's a very sensitive matter, a spiritual life of people, which is why solutions in the law need to be quality. What is noticeable through the proposal of the law on church and religious communities is respect for freedom and the right to religion, but on the other hand there is only minimal, negligible, minority-declarative protection of individuals, families, societies and states, which can also cause the great consequences of the operation of totalitarian, destructive, social religious sects, guru of movement, psycho-organisation and commercial cults. In the presentation, Mr. Minister, what I was distracted by as an MP of the SRS, I didn't notice, and I listened very carefully, I may not have heard all the details of your presentation, but I didn't notice that you explained this law from a sociological aspect, which is precisely why there may be consequences for the mental, physical and spiritual health of people due to the functioning of various religious sects. This bill even makes me feel that the traditional religious communities that exist in these areas are not sufficiently protected. The need for the spiritual life of humans was from the existence of man. Freedom of religion and the free confession of faith is one of the first human rights, for which almost all nations and states were interested. After centuries of wars, and unfortunately there were many, there was a belief that a certain degree of tolerance was the only alternative to endless conflicts. The right of citizens to freely confess their religious beliefs, or not to confess their religious beliefs, must, and this is exactly what it seems, to be regulated by the highest legal acts in our country. I wish, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that 1054. There has been no division of Christianity to Orthodoxism and Catholicism. Among other things, there would not be so many religious wars based on differences in religious beliefs. An example is the 30-year war between Catholics and Protestants in Germany; the current armed conflicts in Northern Ireland between Catholics and Protestants; in 1991 to 1995 we know the civil-religious war on the premises of the former SFRY. What is done today, the operation of many religious communities that we call open in the SRS of destructive sects, can be one, and we are sure that it is, because we are studying world diplomacy and politics, and especially by the great forces, the continuation of the wars that are waged against us right now by the sects of the United States. After all, they brought down over hundreds of churches in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, contrary to Articles 8 and 23. The 1955 Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Goods. It is their role where the church, regardless of what it is, especially the SPC, has been greatly weakened and therefore its social function must be reaffirmed, a function as the general integral force of the Serbian people. The role of SPC in these areas is particularly important and is particularly important for us, because SPC has always been the basis for history, spiritual guidance and the guardian of national identity. The SPC paved the way for the creation of the Serbian Empire and gave a guideline to the processing of our state, diplomatic and political skills. The SPC was the only link between the spiritual and material values of a powerful Serbian empire and the only light in the darkness of slavery that gave rise to the resurrection of a free Serbian state during the five-century slavery under the Turks. In all the fateful and breaking moments, the SPC was with its Serb people, rising above the devastating divisions, trying to reconcile mothers' dissent brothers, preventing the tragic conflicts that led to duality among Serbs, whose consequences we still feel today. Especially the devastating time period for the SPC and for the operation of all churches and religious communities on the premises of the former SFRY was the period of World War II, when the SPC came out almost destroyed, with a half-ringed priestly staff, ruined religious facilities, temples, in a defensive manner before communism and internationalism, daily terrorised by up-to-date regime officials, exposed to mounted Serbian processes, where a large number of priests lost their lives or were sentenced to long-standing prison sentences. Yet, the SPC, humiliated, marginalized by a disguised ban on labor, fought for naked survival and managed to preserve all values, spiritual, and somewhat material, and its place and role in the Orthodox Christian people. Its temples are once again filled with young people and this shows that any regime that does not respect the moral and spiritual values of its people is not a long time ago. We in the SRS are a party of trusted people, who have a special attitude towards respect and respect for SPC, but at the same time we express ourselves with maximum tolerance towards members of all other religions and religious communities. What is particularly important today in our Balkans is the existence of both religious systems and religious groups, i.e. confession. Today, when we talk about this bill, we must say that this is the kind of last capitulation of the Serbian state ahead of the new world order that leads the United States and capitulations ahead of their global political ideology. Mr. Minister, in a speech just now when we explain the justification of the bill's bill, it seems to me that you have made a positive statement about globalism, given that we should be wise, that we do not accept globalisation as ideology, because it may be harmful, but it is not useful not to accept it. In 1992, US Secretary of State James Baker said he was going to wage a war against Serbs, both diplomatically and propaganda, and psychologically, and all that was happening during the 1990s, we saw that it was prepared very seriously and studioly and that it was invented much earlier, and now we see that we were defeated politically, economically and militaryly, and we were left to be defeated only spiritually. It seems to me that even through this bill of law, they're doing it right now. It is sad, but it is true that this bill recognises the pseudochrist sects that have been established in the last 100 years, which have no basis in the spirituality of the people of the Balkans, have already been created elsewhere and have been brought into our country, if necessary. The SRS is incomprehensible that someone can recognize these organizations, which serve to break the spiritual unity of the people and the state, and especially that occur in some difficult and confusing times, as is the time for us. In contrast to them, according to us in the SRS, the traditional churches and religious communities that should be recognised, which should be given special legislative attention and every other, economic, educational, are primarily the SPC, the Roman Catholic Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Jewish religious community, the Slovak Evangelical Church, the Reform Christian Church and the Evangelical Christian Church. These are traditional churches and religious communities that need to find their place in this bill. The sects are viewed not only as associations where some people, in our own way, meet their religious needs, but also as a very serious and safe problem, both in the world and here. There are countless examples that can be cited for the purpose of justifying what I now say. Those who, even here in the world, have nothing like mushrooms after the rain, have to have some deeper sense of existence. It’s not just a pure belief in something, it’s not just a pure confession of religion or religious rituals, and that’s just a breakthrough in the spiritual life of believers and traditional churches and religious communities. For us here is the most obvious and equative example of the case that is related to the Pentecostal sect, which you, in article 17, foresee as part of other organizations, religious organizations, and you want to admit it, putting it even in the second category of article 17 in the importance of your bill. All the pseudochrist sects, which have been created lately, absolutely have no basis to exist in our country and we don't think they should be recognized. Today, we are discussing legally allowing them to take away our believers. All cult researchers agree on one thing, and such are safety assessments on this matter. This law will cause many ugly events that will inevitably follow. Many wars in the Balkans were essential religious wars. Do you think no one will react when he sees his child going into spiritual slavery? These incidents have so far been to such a small extent, because all people had hoped that the state would protect them, and after this law you would bear the greatest responsibility both for the people and for God. When I say you, I mean all those who work hard, vote and advocate the passing of this law. We believe that all members of the pseudochrist sects of pseudochrists can satisfy their religious needs in traditional religious communities, otherwise only their presence offends and endangers the religious feelings of members of traditional religious communities. Of course, the SRS believes, as we have already stated, that you have made very unserious approaches to the adoption of laws on religious communities, as well as to the Criminal Law. It seems to us that it's not serious enough, it's fast enough, with countless, not only these, but the essential mistakes and the wrong solutions that are listed, but also some minor small mistakes, and even grammatical errors of interpretation, and that's why the competent service needs to rework this bill in case you adopt it here. It's scientifically proven that sects and sects change consciousness and behavior, we get internal brain drains, we get people who don't respect state institutions through the functioning of religious sects, people who, not by their own free will, are closer to someone else than their own country, friends and relatives. Mr Minister, you are calling on the European Union, the rules of the international community in this area, and you have not applied any provisions of the European Parliament resolution since 29 February 1996 and since 4 September 2003. They talk about the repression and struggle of states against religious sects; not even the Criminal Law. No provision of the bill provided for such a thing. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the spiritual awakening, the economic strength and the cultural rebirth of Orthodox peoples are not being watched today with sympathies everywhere in the world. World Power Centres have developed a strategy and different forms of tactics to undermine, destabilisation and internal collapse of the world, especially Russia's largest Orthodox countries and all other Orthodox countries, and Serbia as Orthodox countries. The economic difficulties of some countries are used for blackmail and blockades, and huge financial resources encourage small peoples to try to realise illegal isolation afterwards and in practice. In parallel with these processes, Orthodox nations in Eastern Europe are sent thousands and thousands of missionaries, destructive and common health of dangerous sects, who are to provide supposed spiritual comfort to the population, which is an open field because of years of atheisation and an empty spiritual field for the missionary work of many people who do not think well of both this country and our people. The ultimate goal of these aspirations is known to everyone. Its result should be the globalisation of the world, in which the spiritual and other specialities of the people will be lost and enable world monopolies to use their natural and human resources without problems and administrative and other bans. It's the creation of a new world order, it's a political ideology of globalisation, of New Age or of a new age with one religion and one world government. Further, united and aware of its values and contributions to world civilization, the Orthodox world can preserve its spiritual speciality. Every other time leads to the disappearance and drowning in the global world, made according to the U.S., to the blood and sweat of small nations. The new world order our people met in the worst possible way, through the devastating bombings carried out by the North Atlantic military alliance or by your NATO pact. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the particular problem is the existence of a sect in Serbia, not just any sects, but sects that are destructive, totalitarian, associative, sects that came from various systems, both religious and confessional, pseudo-Christian, Christian, Hindu, Buddhist and other systems. In the Republic of Serbia, about 60 religious sects operate, including 40 Protestant origins and character. They are the most numerous, according to official statistics, adventists, because of the competent state institutions, regardless of what they do and statistics, are overlooked by adventists and placed in religious sects, and in Article 17, we foresee them as other religious organisations. Then, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Baptists, Pentecostals, which we also foresee in Article 17 as other religious organizations, etc. Several types of Satanic sects also work. The most dangerous satanic sect - Ordo Temple Orients, which operates in Vrsac, Pancheva, Novi Sad, Trieste, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no accident that certain countries of Western Europe are struggling with all possible ways, reacting and the work of state authorities and institutions against religious sects. Austria is an example of how an enviable co-operation of civil, church and state institutions is being achieved in the fight against destruction against the state, nation and religion. The "sect knowledge" brochure protects the Austrian Ministry of Environment, Youth and Family, tells citizens that many organisations are working on their protection. This caution of the Austrian society is not without reason. In Europe, there are dominant religions of Christian orientation: Orthodox, Roman Catholic and Protestant, which deal exclusively with spiritual activities in the context of existing state and legal structures in the area. In contrast, sects, among other things, aim to conquer authorities, destroy existing systems of moral norms and social values. The EU's stance on the approach and treatment of totalitarian, aggressive and destructive religious sects on its territory is unique and homogeneous, and the leader of this unity is Germany. I have already mentioned the European Parliament resolution of 1996 and 2003. The Greek police have effectively taken action to fight certain religious organisations, or religious sects. We have an example that in 1996 the Greek state has banned the often mentioned and very dangerous sects - scientologists, as well as Jehovah’s Witnesses and Pentecostals. As soon as certain documents were received, the Stavrofor protoire was liquidated in Greece, which alarmed the public about the threatening dangers. The Greek police have very effective action to capture the murderers and arrest the other members of the sect and come into possession of the list of data from thousands of significant figures the sect planned to kill. It is necessary to state Germany's position on a sect that has been contained in Europe, but in Serbia it is in a sudden expansion. Why do I mention this particular cult? Because it is also provided for in Article 17. Proposal for a law on churches and religious communities. Under the pretext that it is better to prevent than to treat, the German state regularly publishes a sects edition, in which it is highly argued and popularly informs its people and warns how they are shown, and what is true, that is, a delusion in the fact that certain sects act destructively by society. In 1994, they published a brochure entitled "Adventists", the same planned religious organization in Article 17. It's a bill of law. There, along with a lot of evidence and catastrophic facts, they discovered how and why adventists were created, how they act, whose exhibit you are, and so on. In recent times, no group has caused such attention, criticism and public opposition as a scientological organization or a California church, founded by Lafayette Ronald Ron Habart in 1950. Discussions on the organisation have led even to violations of relations between the two economically and militaryly powerful countries, Germany and the United States. I have a lot to tell you about both the law and the existence of religious sects, the guru of movement, the psycho-organization and the commercial cults in our country. Instead of combating these phenomena and using all possible means available, state authorities and competent officials in these state bodies, we allow certain statesmen to be in very high state positions, even at the places of government members, and they belong, at least to those information available to the public, as members of very dangerous religious sects such as Scientology. I have a lot of examples here, with names and last names, so, Mr. Minister, in the course of the debate in principle, and especially in particular, let's present you and try to talk you into it, or we'll figure out that we need to withdraw this bill from the procedure, or we need to fix it in amendment. We have submitted 19 amendments, some of which you have adopted, but these are the amendments that do not interfere with the fundamental question of your proposal for a law on churches and religious communities. In that sense, as the MP of the SRS parliamentary group, I ask you to seriously consider all our objections, and in particular the remarks we have made through the amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25710	The word is from MP Arsen Kurjački, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25711	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, today we are discussing the law on churches and religious communities. The theme of this law is that offices finally relate between the state and the church, i.e. to establish the place and role of the church in society. Why does this law have to be passed? For the simple reason that, we heard from Mr. Minister, Serbia is the only country in Europe that has not legally regulated this area. We haven't had it since 1993, when the law that was in force until then was abolished, which was 40 years old, the new law has not been passed, and the law that was passed since the time of atheism was declared state religion, and the church brought down to the Association of Citizens. In order to get to know better the complexity of this matter and the relations of the present state and the church, we still have to go back a little bit to history, not as far as a colleague from the SRS, I'll only be back half of the 20th century. We can divide that period from 1945 to now into four stages. The first stage would be from 1945 to 1955, and some believe that it was the phase and time of terror of the state over the church. At the time, communist authorities violently committed a social and cultural coup. Religious learning was then understood as competitive ideology. It was generally declared that church learning is the past, and that communist ideology is the new pseudo-religion of the future. After that time, we can characterize a new phase as the time of church control by the state. How did that change happen? Because the authorities at the time realized that faith in the people could neither be quickly nor easily eradicated, and this belief was helped by representatives of the free world who with favourable loans at the time, arrangements, came with certain recommendations and requirements that religious communities must be respected as an important social factor. No matter what, the ultimate goal of the government at the time was to isolate the church on the port and be reduced to a religious ritual. That period lasted four decades. The next phase can be characterized as a time of manipulation for churches by the state. In the last decade of the 20th century, all the values of communist ideology have been rejected throughout Europe and the Soviet Union. The former Yugoslav republics have exploited the collapse of communist ideology and have highlighted their new historical goals, which is the creation of independent national states. Authorities in Serbia-Montenegro at the time, unfortunately, remained attached to the ideas of socialism and Yugoslavism. Both fortifications and support for achieving these goals were sought in circles where the national idea was most rooted, best preserved, and by definition it was in SPC, i.e. in churches of other peoples. That's why it's a time for political manipulation of the state to churches and religious communities. The last time, not so long ago with us, has been called time after democratic changes in 2001, where government and church officials have expressed their desire to establish much better and more fruitful co-operation, but such co-operation is not legitimateized by the adoption of a new law. Why this law was not passed, it should be answered by those who were then in power. We come at the present moment, the current time when the DSS forms this government in the most part and has responsibility for regulating this area. We have accepted this task, and this task is to permanently regulate relations between the state and the church, but in a modern, democratic way, on the one hand, suitable for our tradition and culture that is centuries-old, and on the other hand, and to imitate it with some European environment that exists around us. There's no other way to regulate it, only by law. We've heard here that we can do without laws, but as DSS, we've always advocated that laws are the only criteria on which everyone has to rule. So we have to pass the law. I'm sure we'll bring it to this assembly these days, and that law solves some of the most basic things in the first place. First of all, churches are recognised as public institutions, as public, cultural and social systems, which perform their own indigenous, irreplaceable role in society. It's time to finally reject these syntagms of the Association of Citizens, NGOs, and more nebulose as private legal persons and so on. The second thing that needs to be regulated by this law is to establish continuity in the legal subjectivity of traditional churches, which the historical traditional churches and religious communities have acquired in ancient times, the laws of both the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Third, religious educational and cultural institutions must be included in the state educational and cultural system, but in a specific way, by respecting their autonomy and within the secular system of education and culture. Of course, no less important and less important, this law must establish that Serbia is originally a multi-religious community. This means that, apart from traditional churches and religious communities, there are also many evangelical and spiritual Christian churches, and they do not view themselves as sects and rightly seek to confess their religious beliefs and traditions as citizens of this country. We heard from the minister that there is no church that does not exist in Europe and that exists in Serbia. Many churches in Serbia only connect us with almost all European peoples and states. In order to better determine the future status and place of the church, we must, after the adoption of this law, and we have confidence from the Ministry and the Government that it has already come to a good distance, urgently pass a law on the return of taken property to churches, and of course under more favourable conditions than for other forms of nationalised property. This property was neither private nor profit-making. That's why he's different from the others. She was in the service of spiritual, charitable, and educational cultural works of the church. What can you say about this law? It can primarily be said that it is extremely carefully balanced, because it equally respects our first Serbian legal tradition of regulating relations between the state and the church. It then respects legal solutions and practices in some EU Member States, in particular German and Austrian legal arrangements. We say to some, because simply in the EU it must be known that there would be no error, there is no single solution to this matter in the EU. Each country solves this matter in accordance with its traditions, customs and its general will and desire. Of course, this law has taken account of and respected the widely accepted international conventions on human rights, as well as the views of European institutions on the achievement of religious freedoms. What are the basic principles on which this law rests? It is the first and basic principle of full religious freedom of every citizen. Then the principle of protection of collective rights, because we need to know that since 2002 about 95% of our citizens have declared to belong to certain churches or religious communities. Of course, it's the principle of co-operation between the state and the church. This co-operation is established as a possibility and a right, not a commitment. In mutual cooperation, both sides are completely free. The minister made that clear, and I don't think it should be misused in any other sense. How to define the principle of separation from the state, which is so many times and so long back rigidly interpreted and abused? It is interpreted in a modern way and defined by the fact that churches and religious communities, on the one hand, recognise the right to participate in public life, and, on the other hand, by embezzling in the law of the principle of full autonomy, the church clearly removes the danger that the state interferes and interferes with some internal life or mission of the church. The formal-organization law consists of three parts. One is the basic part, where freedom of religion is determined, ban on religious discrimination, and so on. The second part of the legal position of the church and the religious communities, we primarily have a chapter on autonomy, or autonomy, where autonomys of the church, priests, are being recognised continuity, traditional churches, religious communities are being identified and so on. (President: Use another 10? Yes, go ahead. ) The second part, or second chapter, is the registration chapter. It's the famous part that didn't exist in the communist law, which was liberalized and that brought churches and religious communities all down to citizens' associations. It is clearly prescribed here how the register, which is contained in the register, established procedure, how the name of the religious community is used, reasons for erasure, legal remedy, etc. Everything that is clearly prescribed cannot be distorted by manipulation. The third chapter - property and financing, sources of funding, property, property protection as part of cultural heritage were established and social rights were established for priests and other persons. And part three, it's the work of the church and the religious communities. The first chapter of God’s work, then educational action, where religious institutions dealing with educational work, status, diplomas that are acquired, the social rights of students and students of religious institutions are defined. So, everything that hasn't existed so far. It is similar with cultural activity, where it determines who are the bearers of cultural activity, rights and protection of sacral heritage, the conditions for information and performance activity, the tax and detailed comprehensively listed, so that we can say that this law is truly comprehensive, but instead of the conclusion we can say that the adoption of this law was really hard and responsible work. We heard from Mr. Minister, it was not easy to reconcile all contradictions, correct all injustices, reconcile all impatiences, allow everyone to find their spiritual place, and on the other hand it does not endanger any individual or collective rights of all others. In Serbia, there are 189 other organisations besides historical churches and religious communities. They were all invited to participate, and they all gave their vision. 53 institutions, domestic, foreign, non-governmental organisations, the Venice Commission, the OSCE, the Council of Europe etc. participated in this proposal. The bill was under public debate for nearly two years, so one huge job, extremely complex and difficult, was brought to an end. And yet we are witnessing that there are many fierce polemics and many disputes. What is the essence of these polemics? The bottom line is that some Euro-Atlantic integration institutions are trying to impose some solutions and some visions that are not suitable for our tradition and our culture. What we can say is that all human rights standards and principles of religious freedom are fully respected. Also, we can say and we must not have respected suggestions, but those suggestions that were on the line to end our religious pluralism, not to end the identity of every religious community individually, and not to allow, what was most important to us, the establishment of continuity, legal subjectivity, which occurred after the desolation of the communist regime for 60 years. After this law has been passed, and in the Assembly itself, we must say clearly and loudly that Serbia is a country with a rich centuries-old religious tradition and tolerance. We shouldn't be ashamed of that, it's our fortune, and we always have to stick to it. This law only re-establishs this situation, and we have the right to do so as a state, as all other countries in Europe have the right to do so. We must tell our trusted people, loud and clear, that as long as this minister is here, as long as these governments are headed by Vojislav Kostunica, the Democratic Party of Serbia, that right no one will touch us and no one can take us. I take the opportunity to thank and congratulate Mr. Minister and Government primarily on the ability, knowledge and courage to pass just like this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25712	Thank you for not using your time, leaving enough at your disposal for all participants. Here you go. Mr. Milosevic Albianic, representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Please, affidavit from the president and authorized representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25713	What did the government of Kostunica say, Labus? Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fundamental value of the European Union is human rights and freedom. The European Union has other values, has established a system of value, such as democracy, tolerance, pluralism. So it simply allows one difference of opinion and full tolerance in political life and otherwise. And when we look at Article 1 of the existing law, everyone in accordance with the Constitution is guaranteed the right to freedom of conscience and religion, where others are not denied the right to treat this as they wish. What is also very important, which is Article 2 that says in Section 3 that there is no state religion. And often, therefore, we mix certain concepts and things. This establishes that the state and the church are separate, but that's another way to explain it. This separation is institutional. If I am a member, as I am, of the Serbian Orthodox Church, I participate in political life and I am in a certain function here in parliament, I cannot physically separate these things, therefore, in a spiritual sense. So it's one thing to institutionally solve it right here, and the other thing is my right and my freedom to belong to something and to feel that way, and I don't endanger others, and I fully guarantee other rights and freedoms. What is also my wish, which is to read here something that seems very important to me, which is the legal continuity of churches and religious communities. So these things aren't since yesterday or we haven't decided to make them today. In Article 12, the Serbian Orthodox Church recognises continuity with the legal subjectivity acquired on the basis of the principle of spiritual authority (the Decision of the National Assembly of the Serbian Library of 21 May 1836) and the Law on the Serbian Orthodox Church of 1929; the Roman Catholic Church is recognised continuity with the legal subjectivity acquired under the Law on the Consord between the Kingdom of Serbia and the Holy Table (the Decision of the National Assembly of the Kingdom of Serbia of 26 July 1914); the Slovak Evangelical Church, the Reformed Church of the Christian Church and the Evangelical Church of the Christian Church is recognised continuity with the legal subjectivity acquired under the Law on Evangelical-Christian churches and on the Reformed Christian Church of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia from 1930. The Jewish community is recognised continuity with the legal subjectivity acquired under the 1929 Jewish religious community law in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The Islamic community recognises continuity with the legal subjectivity acquired under the Law on the Islamic Religious Community of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia of 1930. The confessional communities are the Christian Baptist Church, the Christian Adventist Church, the Evangelist Methodist Church, the Pentecostal Church, the Evangelical Christian Church and other religious organizations registered under the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities of 1953 and the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities of 1977. There is only one way to unite something that has already existed in this country's documents. What I further want to say, and the amendments also concern, and something about the G17 Plus Parliament Club, and one part of the amendment has entered the law, it has been proposed by the Committee on European Integration, it is about protecting our cultural wealth, our cultural well-being and our cultural heritage. In this regard, we have advocated that the state must primarily protect everything in these areas, and under the protection of the Serbian state is as a monument to culture. What is also important, and from this law is, it is that we should pay attention and do the part about school and that religious rituals can not be every day and on every occasion, but on certain occasions, such as the school glory of St. Sava, etc. I think we're going towards that solution and we should think about it together, there's time for that. I want in a certain way to give a personal seal to this law and to say that in a spiritual sense Europe is a Christian space, and culture, and art, and even science, they were wearing and wearing a Christian seal. In the Christian East, autokephane independent churches are also related to individual nations, Russian, Serbian, Romanian, Bulgarian, as well. The Serbian Orthodox Church has been firmly connected with the Serbian people since its independence in 1219, during the time of the Holy Sava. All the rises, fallouts and declines of the Serbian people are simultaneously the rises, crackdowns and the fall of the Serbian Orthodox Church. In order for religious communities to normally carry out their activities and can work well on the spiritual rise of our citizens, one such law is needed. I also want to say this, when we talk about our history, our tradition, for which we are deeply bound, we can't just separate things. I also want to say that the faith of our rulers was the same faith that Saint Sava preached. Their hope was also his hope, and simply the faith and hope of our rulers did not differ in anything from the faith and hope of the Serb people in general. What is very important is the return of the seized property to religious communities and a necessary condition for their quality of operation. Many today's problems in Kosovo and Metohija, and especially Metohija, because the word metoch means church property, would appear to have been taken away from the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in a timely manner. We are now in a rather paradoxical situation, that the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church was returned to Hungary, Romania, Croatia, Slovenia, but not in Serbia, and that is the problem that should be resolved as soon as possible. Of course, I said I'd give one personal stamp, respecting the opinions of others, and I want to be a tolerance to others, because there are different people here, there are believing and amazing ones, but I also want to round up my debate on one personal occasion. I had a chance or a problem, as I went to elementary school, that some teachers, unbeliefingly, were taking care of the parents taking their children to church. I don't think that was a good time. I think it is simply something that some normal functioning of the state must be overcome, and certainly the coming of democracy makes it possible. I also want to say one more thing. They asked Vladet Jerotic -- what do you think of how many more people come to church today, and now they're making a fuss, and those who used to come normally can't get to the turn of new arrivals. He says that in simple words - that is good, which I agree with, many of them will begin to believe. I believe that this law will be properly applied, that we will take care and respect every person and every man, which is our goal in this country. I call upon the Members of Parliament to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25714	Here you go, Mr. Cirkovic, authorised representative of New Serbia's 9+9 parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25715	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, indeed this area governed by the proposal of this law on churches and religious communities was unregulated and the natural need of this high house to pass such a law. We regret that since 1990 until now, governments have changed, no minister of religion has found it appropriate to pass such a law as an authorised legislator. For this reason, we consider, although late, this law is welcome. Of course, as a member of the Serbian Orthodox Church, I can only talk about Serbian religious tradition, but I do not consider it necessary, for the simple reason that Serbia is a secular state and it has always been. The modern Serbian state was always secular and lay, it was never theocratic, even when the chosen patriarch was Serbian, the first patriarch of the Serbian renewed patriarchy was Dimitrius, had to be chosen by the king's blessing, even then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was a secular type state and simply what is a civilization's fluid, that the church was separated from the state, had been brought to life in the Serbian legal order traditionally. It's not a bad thing that we especially point out that SPC has no state religion status. The only thing that had the status of some to say para-state religions was atheism, which, by its cruelty and brutality, has inflicted a lot of evil on one cultural civilizational activity that religion, by nature, has. Religion cannot be taken away from what is in the function of its worship, it cannot be taken away from the right educationally, the right to education, cannot be taken away from the right sacrificially, culturally, etc. That's all that stands in her being. That's good. The law in this matter is good, although it seems to me that in some things there is no need to list what is not prohibited, but to prescribe what are good, desirable, acceptable, and what are inadmissible actions. The law has a clear intensity in that matter. I was elected as an MP and in the first multi-party assembly and in that term in the 1991 elections, I remember the merits of the parliamentary group I belonged to, a law was passed which was also the then-convincing ruling coalition, i.e. the ruling SPS party, which was the Return Act of the SPC. We deeply regret that the head of state, using the right to a suspension veto, put the law out of force, so he never came to life. If things had happened more positively than they had been, perhaps our country's position in Kosovo would have been more stable because much of the country in Kosovo and Metohija belonged to the SPC. And if such a law were passed in good time, at that moment, we would now have deedes with which we can appear before the world and seek our historical rights, because the world understands the deed and understands the private property, and understands the property of the SPC which, unfortunately, that law is not legal. The position in which we are now for this reason is a little bit sad. It's a good thing all religious communities are mentioned in the law. That thing we can just clear up. When it comes to church, it is thought of those religious organizations stemming from Christian tradition and Christian civilizations. Everything other than Christianity is religious communities. As great traditional religious communities, these are the Islamic religious community and the Jewish community. The Jewish community just doesn't separate faith from the nation, it's exactly the same. When it comes to the Islamic community, there is something similar, and when it comes to Christian religion, that is, religion, then things are different. You can have more nations that belong to the same faith, and even one nation can have more faiths that are completely equal. For example, it is an example of an Albanian nation, which has a biological vitality, although it is multi-confessional, although 70% is Muslim, 20 percent orthodox Christians, and 10 percent is Roman Catholic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I count that most MPs and MPs will support the adoption of this law, for the simple reason that it will bring some new order into our legal order. We're counting on there's no reason why he and the amendments that are good enough and that improves things can be brought to a higher level. What is credit to the Ministry of Faith and the current Minister of Faith, Mr Radulovic, is that he first, after the introduction of the multi-party and after the communist order in which religion was denied, dared first to pass such a law. I believe that Europe does not have to wonder how we will regulate our legal order, it will not ask how we will regulate the position of religious communities, and finally that is our problem, and I hope that this law will give us a favourable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25716	Thank you, Mr. Cirkovic, but thank you very much for speeding up the discussion. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted four parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSS, the G17 plus and the SPS. According to the Rules of Procedure, first there is the word of MP Rajko Baralić, and then the MP of the people Tomislav Nikolic, then Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25717	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this opportunity was used by a number of fellow Members of Parliament to spit in a well from which they drank water for a long time. It's their right. In this and such communism, which is disputed by different basics, there was, I guess, something good. That well is general. From it everyone drank water, however they felt about thirst. It's not a topic today. It's just not moral. It's not true that atheism was a state religion, or I didn't live in the same state with many of you, or something else disagrees. It is possible that there were areas where such examples were. I simply admire the ability of a number of people to talk about things that they know little about with such passion. But, well, here's a chance to see it. You adopted the Rehabilitation Act this morning. In the day of the greatest Jewish festival of Pasha, a few days ago, the debate over the law was concluded. Under the law, Milan Nedic was rehabilitated, although 96 per cent of the Jews arrested were executed in Banjaca. So much for knowing what this is all about. There's no double morale: either you're moral or you're not. That's an important question. It's important when we measure everything on microns, milliliters, millimetres, and yet we know what this is about. It is necessary to adopt this law and will be passed, but it is not necessary in this way to talk about a period in this country, in which a modern state is raised from dust and ash, with modern industry, modern social rights, which are just a dream for the largest number of citizens of Serbia today. Everything else is a matter of taste, political relationship, etc. A few important questions have been raised here today. The head of our MP club was saying what it was we'd support and what it wasn't. I want to say the next thing. It is important to regulate this area by law because it is simply such a social need. We will find it difficult to measure how much in our country those people who have this intimate relationship with God and how many such people are in church as an institution. Churches have an interest in making these people as much as possible, and we understand that. Of course we're not counting, it's not our task here today, and it's not a subject. Of course, we're going to do something that we think we should support, that we're going to argue something else, and I'm going to say a few things about it. I agree with those who advocate continuity. We cannot, when the whole world, or almost the whole world, measure time from Christ, make a law that simply derrogates and challenges it. It would also be of no interest to these churches and religious communities listed here. The question of whether the process of our Europeanism would go faster if we did it one way or another remains for the analysis of those who determine the measure of everything here. I know with confidence that both the OSCE and the European Council on this law have a bad opinion and that they want to be withdrawn, but for me personally, that's an argument to be brought in, among other things. So that's my relationship to that question, because I know exactly what they're interested in. As I know, and what was of interest to the representatives of 14 different organisations on the Committee on European Integration, who had similar requirements to what I'm talking about here. People's MPs should be allowed, and the National Assembly is the best and the best place, there is no better place, to pass the law on this area, because there is no one else. If we rewrite it from someone else, we won't celebrate, nor will we pass the maturity exam, no matter what they think of it. Is it important that some military units of some former Yugoslav republics have official Vicars and that we become a member of the European Union or, God forbid, of the Atlantic Pact, I don't know exactly. But I do know exactly that an army in the Atlantic Pact comes from a platoon of public houses, that's exactly what it's said, so I'm just wondering how it's possible for official Vicars to tolerate it, it's official information, that kind of behavior, and whether it's hypocrisy, or whether it's a mockery of one and the other. We can talk all you want. My ideal is not to have an army, that our country has an army where it happens, so I'm not unhappy about it, but on the contrary. Also, several respected colleagues spoke of the need for our state to return the metaphors, i.e. the estates to the churches, and I don't mind. Five years of self-ruling, and you've had five years of chance, undisturbed from no one, to do so, I expect you to suggest, although I must say that there will be some problems that you may not see today. That's not the point here today. There are things I don't agree with in this law, and I can't explain it to anyone who thinks anything like me. Such competition by religious organisations in our country, which is about 200, with all respect for human rights and freedoms, can be a source of different problems. Because when it comes to traditional churches and religious communities, we know what it's really about. Each one of them stands for virtue, neither favors vice, no matter what it is. But when it comes to these small, tiny, often come from the Far East, there are things in their operation that are contrary to the interests of family, individual, our tradition, security, other interests, and it's hard to measure how any of them will behave when the law is passed, because I remind them, they will get, among other things, the status of a legal person, they will be able to function undisturbed from none, and there is no social or state control over their operation. That kind of responsibility will be taken over by this parliament, but I must say, because of this they are not happy either in the SPC or in other major religious organisations in Serbia. Several colleagues spoke of political influence on religious communities, as if there was no opposite action. I remind you that the Roman Catholic Church of Belgrade raised to the level of the Bishop in 1985, only the jurisdiction of the bishop to Zemun, and from Zemun and beyond Djakovaga, the NDH scheme remained. Thus, churches are not innocent when it comes to politics, and they do so in a way that often does not seem clear and understandable enough to us. A few days ago in the city I live in, in Cačka, the Folks Bank organized the paints of Easter eggs in the most Orthodox city in Serbia on the eve of a Catholic resurrection. It's like an accident. I remind you, Cačak and Moravia County are 97% Serbian cities, some other people live there, we have good neighbors, and there is nothing disputed, just the Folks Bank, in the name of a large religious organization, in an unequivocally political way and it is broadcast by TV funded by the citizens of Cačak municipality. So there are no innocents here. I also remind you that one prot in Cačka was the candidate for Mayor Cačka on the electoral list -- the Movement of the Powers of Serbia. It's a simple life, don't make me not see it, I live there and I see it every day, as you see it. In the end, it's important to pass the law, but it's also important that we know that we are obviously paying some kind of debt here. In some large states, a church is very large and strong, and it has symbolic significance in Serbia, it does not mean it should be evened with the SPC in Serbia today. I hope they don't understand it that way, and if they understand it that way, the SPC and other major religious communities will be in trouble. In this regard, it is also important that the Ministry of Faith and all others take care of it, because the church has a special methodology, the church acts on both consciousness and subconscious, depending on what kind of character it is, and it would be important to take good care of what we do. The paroled atheists today became conditional believers, after what they do to sects in Serbia. If we don't see that they exist today and act, then we don't see well. There are many examples of that. If this law is a way for them to acquire the right of citizenship and to do a job that is contrary to the interest of the Serbian people and the Serbian state, and other citizens of Serbia and other members of different religious communities, then we will not do a good job. I believe we know what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25718	Ambassador Ćirkovic, a replica; you will only say on what basis, since I haven't been a colleague since the beginning of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25719	Mr. Baralic has a habit of pinching me at the pay phone, counting on me to be decent, so I'm not going to tell him, like his metaphors, I can't keep track of him until the end. But it makes sense that you were thinking about me, I'm just wondering how much you dared. Mr. Baralic, when did you and I drink water from the same bilge? Who's going to believe that? Even if you drank upriver from the river, and I drank from the same river downriver, you would accuse me of muttering your source. Knowing that you're muttering, I didn't drink that water, even though it wasn't from the muzzle. Once again, Mr. Baralic, why do you appear as a communist lawyer? You're not the only surviving communist. There are some who, for a greater reason, can defend that order. Why defend him when you gave him up yourself? So you didn't go to the elections in the 1990s, as Montenegrins, called the Communist Party of Serbia or the Union of Communists, but you skillfully changed the name, you wanted to trick someone. You've got to be kidding me. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now let's talk a little bit about how the previous regime has not declared atheism to state religion. Why not? Please, the basics of your learning is that religion is an opium for the people. That's the first item. The second item, which you were proud of, you became subsequent nationalists, but the proletarians have no country. It's in the Communist Union program, it says in Marks' principles, it says in the Communist manifesto. This is your Bible. Remember, among other things, this. Mr. Nikolic, what's wrong with you? I apologize, now for the heritage of Marks's liquid Mr. Nikolic. You gave up Marks, right? I don't know what he's talking about. No one's responsible personally. There's a certain ideology that's done some damage. Finally, if it hadn't been for damage, Communism would still rule, and it's nowhere but China, Cuba and Korea, and it's out there.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25720	Ambassador Rajko Baralic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25721	Mr. Vice President, my discussion was focused on what my esteemed colleague Arsen Kurjački said. I didn't notice you were discussing, Mr. Cirkovic. But it happens. The wall is general, Mr. Cirkovic. There's no other place. No matter how much you think about it today, I'm no one's lawyer, but you are. You've listed the four capital works of communist ideology that you've read with attention. It hasn't been read in Serbia for a long time. So I'm happy that you're ruling that termology and that learning, but your imputation goes to the wrong address. I know the cirkovics are one decent and good family. See what the Baralici family is like in the Tuco-minir area. There's no problem. It's possible your family is better, which doesn't mean our family is ugly. There are people who probably think of each other in one way or another. The people would say your time has come. I don't want to spoil your pleasure. In that time of yours, Mr. Cirkovic, in the city where I live, there were 17,000 people, and at the time I was a committee secretary, and I was the youngest in SFRY, there were 47,000 people; 30,000 people there or here. What a kid knows is 300 kilos, it's a little something. In that city, where I live, Mr. Cirkovic, there is the Church of the Virgin City, six years older than Hilandar. During the SPS authorities, she was worthy of celebrating her anniversary. More Orthodox temples were built there in those few years than in the past, I don't know how many. It's true, now it's being built, and I don't mind. I'd also like to see so many schools and everything else built next to the temples. I hope the time comes for both. I do not deny that you have the best opinion of yourself. Everyone's as good as they show. Everyone is as faithful as God knows and confesses. As much as he's a believer, we know each and every one of us in our hearts. You can't do that with a declaration. You've had the need to say that, as you need me to every time expect me to vote for everything you suggest. If it hurt you to say that Milan Nedic took 1,171 Jews and 96% of them shot, I apologize on behalf of those who were shot.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25722	Ambassador Ćirkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25723	Let's get this straight one more time. Being a communist and being a believer means being hypocritical. Communist ideology was the negation of religion and of all Christianity. The fact that you, Mr. Baralic, were a public communist and a secret Christian, I don't believe you'll write in your biography. Maybe later people who read, but they won't even write it, in a positive way, maybe it goes negative. What are we talking about? We're saying something wasn't there. Don't tell us. You're talking about the army. I was in the army in 1975, and I know there was a Kosovoer who spoke specifically to every recruit who arrived. Among other things, he asks: Do you speak a foreign language, do you receive mail from abroad, and do you believe in God? Then they say: if you speak foreign language, forget it; if you get mail, inform them that this address is no longer valid; third, you must not enter the church in uniform. Don't tell us how faith was allowed. The truth is one thing, and no one can argue about it. Confession of faith was also free in communism, but at the cost of not making progress. Find me a director in Serbia who went to church and was head of the local office. What are we talking about? When termed "moral-political resemblance", it meant belonging to the Communist Party, and belonging to the Communist Party is a member of atheistic ideology. Somewhere in the world, there were communists who tolerated faith, but our communists obviously didn't. Secondly, I didn't mention your family at all. I believe your family is noble. I have no reason to doubt it. I've only affected your attitudes. I don't know what family mentions now. What's that for? Third, what's he talking about the late Milan Nedic? If you think I'm defending Milan Nedic, I never said that. Milan Nedic said he knowingly sacrificed himself to save the head of the Serb sky column, which came from NDH. He consciously entered the act of treason and no one will rehabilitate Milan Nedic. The fact that you're against this law, the law is universal. You say, "You will rehabilitate this one, and you will not rehabilitate this one." How do you know? There's just a procedure for how it's done. Everyone will be rehabilitated for whom he finds fit that he needs to rehabilitate. When I talked about it, I mentioned Tom Maksimovic, who was the Commissioner for the Refugee Serbs, and he, Mr Baralic, you well know, was sentenced to a long term sentence only because he served his people. We need to rehabilitate them. And not just him, but it's not a topic right now, but let's finish the whole thing. The fact is that the previous order had denied faith and that religious officials were not equal and that believing people were members of the second category. Here's the most concrete piece of evidence. The first thing Serbian communists did was in 1952 to announce the Theological Faculty of Belgrade University, although it was one of the founders of Belgrade University. On the other hand, we know well, what is the issue now, that he is a believer or that he taught the Theological Faculty or a high school of theology? Doesn't mean he'll stay alive. Examples of this are sad. Stalin, Mr. Baralic, also studied theology, and our priest, Vlad Zecevic, also studied theology. Just because someone may have been born in virtue doesn't mean they'll end up in vice. I hope you and I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25724	Mr. Baralich, on what grounds? (Rajko Baralić, from the place: he misread me. You have a word and I pray it ends here. Otherwise I'll take a break, so please discuss it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25725	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the head of Mr. Cirkovic, Mr. Velimir Ilic, was a model communist. That doesn't bother Mr. Cirkovic being in a party whose boss he is. But that's not the point here today. Whatever I am, hypocrisy is not a drawing of my character. Someone else will judge that. Once again, please, you've completely misrepresented yourself. I didn't mean you at all when I was talking. But here, we will correct this law by making all the world's injustices. It'll get better. Everyone will get a job, everything will be under wraps, everyone will have health and social protection, all the slides will stop, all the floods will stop, everyone will be happy and happy and like a fairy tale will live long. But reality isn't like that. The responsibility for the exercise of power is to create an ambience that citizens of a state can live and work normally, to have what makes life worthy of one man. But, well, I can see that in this capital sphere it's going faster, in these others it's going a little slower. We'll see one day, I haven't changed parties, ideology has changed me, I admit, so those who followed me here, so says my Takova, who took me to parliament, they know what I'm supposed to do and do it. I take my chances in front of them, and it's possible in front of God, you know it. Anyway, I had no intention of challenging your anger here. What you've identified is a matter of personal feelings and what's possible is that you have some kind of negative experience from the past, I understand and as a man I understand. But, you know, there are people who are great Christians, when someone dies, they take a red balloon, put on a gelatine and dance in the square, 200 meters from here. They didn't teach me how to behave like that. But well, well, you're not hypocrites, and we are, may God forgive us.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25726	Hansel Dacic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25727	I have a replica of Mr. Ćirkovic's exposure on behalf of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25728	Mr. Zirkovic didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25729	He mentioned the party. I'm the president of the Parliament Club. So I really don't want to go after myself here and talk about who was the bigger communist. That's what we can talk about. Maybe I'm not competent to talk about it, because maybe I'm less than some people have communist internships. There is almost no leader of a political party in Serbia that was not a member of the Alliance of Communists. So, please, when you talk about it, don't act like Matija Bećkovic says about Montenegrins. He says, when they want to spit on the Serbs, they spit up, or spit on themselves. All that has been done since 1945 until today was led by the Union of Communists of Serbia, the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, which had two million members, less than 50% of the SPS membership are former members of the Communist Union. You wonder where the rest of those other members of the Communist Union are. So it's absolutely not nice and it's not moral to talk about the SPS as continuations of some of the negative processes that took place after 1945 and that always existed in some society. Because it is certain that none of the SPS leadership has been riding the priestess, that none of the SPS leadership has torn down churches, it is certain that none of us has stood out in the work against the Serbian Orthodox Church. If there were any phenomena during the Alliance of Communists and the Communist Party of Serbia after World War II, I would ask you a question -- when did such a relationship with the Serbian Orthodox Church end and the Serbian national issue? When? When the SPS, or Slobodan Milosevic, came to power in the Alliance of Communists of Serbia. You have to admit that. Since then, this has changed since 1985 and 1986 to the Serbian Orthodox Church and to the Serbian national issue. If you're referring to that period, we're willing to respond to that if there's any negativity in that period. I've already said I don't know if there were any times when several churches were built. I don't know about some period when the church became and played a significant role. I would remind you that the Serbian Orthodox Church has also given its opinion on the Dayton Agreement. Therefore, I think that if you are now talking about who had any influence in the Alliance of Communists and so on, as Mr. Cirkovic said, then you would make me count all the leaders of the political parties that were members of the Communist Union. You know what, I don't believe Rajko Baralic was the boss of Veli Ilic. Maybe Rajko, I don't know. I certainly wasn't the boss of any of the opposition parties, who are now some anti-communists. Just let them look in the mirror, let the college professors who taught me imagine what books they wrote and what they're talking about today. They can tell that to those who don't know them. For those of you who know them and for all of us who know them, you really shouldn't be giving political lectures here. We're talking about a very specific law. We're not the ones who spoke against the church today, some others said. To tell you the truth, I think they spoke with more indignation against the church than many former and then communists. Therefore, you have chosen the wrong target, I am sure there are a large number of believing people among the SPS members, who believe, meaning that they are members of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which are of course members of other religions, and this is also well-known by the leadership of the Orthodox Church, having in mind everything that has happened in the past few years. So if you're leading the polemics, you're taking them with someone you're opposed to. And about Nedic, I hope we've had a discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25730	About Nedic, Against the others, that's not the point. Ambassador Ćirkovic. He's entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25731	So, to be clear, I didn't take the heat. I didn't, for the simple reason that he didn't dare me to do anything. What's quite clear now, what exists as a line of demarcation is that some in the SPS feel the need to defend communist fluids and some don't feel. Mr. Dacic must belong to this other species, this second column, and I therefore congratulate him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25732	You have no right to a replica. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, since no one is answering for a word anymore. I'm sorry these replicas affected you winning a few times and losing your right to a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25733	You don't need to apologize to me. It's a method I'm willing to use myself. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really hard to talk about this bill without you being resented or resented. And how sensitive it is and how touched it is with the most recent feelings, the finest sentiments of citizens are seen by what committee is parenting for this bill. I know what the conflicts in the ruling coalition are like over every bill. Elections are being prepared, and now every party in the ruling coalition is trying to propose a law to present itself and are mainly a subject of some kind of populist law. And I could put this into it. The DSS has been accused of always wanting to have the Serbian Orthodox Church with it or, in some way, with the influence of the church, being accused of also some of its coalition partners, and then it turns out that the president of the assembly has appointed the Committee on European Integration as the parent board for the bill. Let me just read it to you on what that is. It says - the Committee on European Integration is considering the draft legislation, other regulations and general acts from the point of view of their adaptation to the regulations of the European Union and of the Council of Europe. And then I ask. and why it is not the Legislative Committee, which discusses the draft laws, regulations and general acts addressed to the National Assembly from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. So, we are responsible for a committee that assesses our laws from the point of view of compliance with EU legislation. Then we should abolish the Legislative Committee, then we should say - Serbia's Constitution no longer applies, from now on every bill will have to have a befel or consent of the Committee on European Integration. Since that is not enough, you also have an EU observation mission here, you also have an Association Office, they could assess these bill proposals, or that, with proposals already coming here, they would only deliver their consent to those proposals. And it would be like that unfortunate Wolf Draskovic, who wrote the words of Miki Špiljko, and when the cave came out to speak, and the wolf took note of what Spiljak said to publish in the paper tomorrow. Now, here it is said that long ago we should have had this law and that we would not lose church property in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think it's too much to be fooled, this isn't a law on the return of property to religious communities, churches, and it doesn't have to be too regrettable about that law that was in 1993, I think, here voted, which predicted that we return the property exclusively to the SPC. And I would never advocate living in a state where the congregation favors a church. And don't attack Slobodan Milosevic because the law is back. Of course, there was politics, his proposed law, and he returned the law to his own people, and then the president of the assembly never again puts that bill back on the table. That's where you all threw up so badly that you voted for this bill of law, and I think it was unanimously passed that law here, because you proved how much you don't really understand democracy, or what civil state is, or what rights and freedoms are, and especially the right to property, because the right to property is universal and does not depend on which religion anyone confesses. The story of how to preserve the property of KIM if we had this law is not true. If the state couldn't preserve the property, the church certainly wouldn't have made it. After all, how they burned so many churches and monasteries. There are deedes for them, they're known to be SPC property, and when the bandits set off to go down, they didn't care who that property belongs to. Why is it so difficult to talk about this bill? Because it touches all citizens of Serbia, and you know that there are many of us, even within the same church, let alone by belonging to different churches. Here we need to talk about equal rights for the church, which I belong to, with churches that not only kidnapped the believers of the SPC, not only the rules of them believers of other churches, but even the rules of members of other peoples. Because what the Catholic Church took from SPC by proselytism, these are now Croats, what they have translated into Islam from Serbs, those people who were then born, their descendants, today are not Muslims, Bosniaks, they have become other nations. And yet, on the other hand, one state, normal, and Serbia must be a normal state, even if we are living in it, must not be mindful of history when it regulates such a fine, delicate and tananic matter. And there can't be any leverage here, and there can't be differences here. Of course, the church is, they say, separate from the state. Let's convince me that you can completely separate the church from the state, if the president of the state belongs to one church, if the Prime Minister belongs to one church. A believer, when doing his work, an honest true believer, always thinks of the canons of the church he belongs to, and he behaves according to them, otherwise he will not be able to be a believer. Did any of the presidents of the state step out of the faith and say now I'm the president of all the faiths, I have to take care of all the confesions. It is very difficult to remain completely immune from affecting the church, because you have seen that trust in the military is completely missing, breaking our reputation as the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, the church remains. Whoever convinces us that the church is not good enough for us will finish the job that has been launched by the Europeanisation of Serbia, which has been coerced since 2001. But that is why one who is in power, who can always count on the support of the church, counts that it will be easier to rule, or that he will have a better chance in the next election. After all, you who are now in power understood it in 1990 and 1991. At your mittins, I saw representatives of the church who even spoke, even though the mittins were political and directed against other political options, although they were even against the people directly elected in the elections. It didn't bother you at the time, and I did, and fortunately everything I've ever said remains recorded, so one day someone will read what sadness I was expressing because I no longer find God in the church, but sometimes I find politicians, because many of them are priests, and that was when the SPO represented the new power of the Serbian people, openly propagated the SPO. So I often asked whether each party should now establish its own church and whether one who goes out to the rally of a political party will go into the house to perform any ceremony with members of another political party, those who even fight at the myths. If you can reconcile all that, and for that the law is never enough, there needs to be behavior, then maybe we can deal with the technique of the law, even though his technique isn't very good, although there are two systemic errors and more petty mistakes, which we tried to point out to the amendments and I think it might be acceptable if the amendments were adopted. But don't expect us to help you pass the laws in this congregation, because I see how those who help you pass the laws go. So brazenly and facelessly you attack them that I ask them all a question, what kind of masochism it is that someone spits you so much every day, and every morning at 10.00 he invites you to give him a quorum or when the day of voting comes to raise your hand. Why is the bill of churches and religious communities? Where are your religious organizations, whose position you also regulate by law, that is, where these confessional communities are, which you have also introduced into the bill. The lists of churches and religious communities, the separation from other forms of organization that you provided for in the law, have led to some discrimination. If you accept our amendments to banning these confessional communities or religious organizations completely, then you could accept this bill by proposing that you call the law a law on religious freedom. Many churches existed not only before the modern Serbian state but also before the medieval Serbian state, and were not established in accordance with the law. Never expect a church to be established because it has a law in a state or because it is not there. That's where you get so many sects on Serbia's soil. Were they regulated by law? It was some law registration from 1953, but they didn't even register. They functioned because it was appropriate, because there was insufficient defence by the state and by the church. The church threatened by the state's behaviour, significantly weakened, with some mistakes it's made, and I mean it in particular, but it's better if I don't talk, someone will use me to argue with the ones I love the most, better not to make all my remarks, I wasn't even born when some mistakes were made, so I don't have the right to judge them. If you called that law a law on religious freedom, you would have a complete effect on what you really want to accomplish by this law. Now we're going into matter and you're already in the first article saying that every person is guaranteed the right to conscience. And convince me (Is it Vojislav Seselj? Come in! Now that the law on churches and religious communities has nothing to do with freedom of conscience. This freedom of conscience no longer develops in the law, and I don't know that term at all, that notion of what it was meant to be in Article 1 of the Law, with the freedom of religion from the freedom of conscience. If the minister was directly involved in writing, and I think the law came from a draft that was created a few years ago... Give him my best in the name of the National Assembly, Natasha. And I'll give you yours when I'm set up. You know where, and I'll give you the same answer. ) Furthermore, you say that no one can be disturbed, discriminated against, or privileged, but I am going to this first part, to the fact that no one can be discriminated against, or disturbed by the lack of participation in worship and religious rituals. Who ever thought of keeping a man from being harassed because he didn't participate in worship. Then you should write that no one can be disturbed because he doesn't participate in a football game, that no one can be disturbed because he wasn't waiting in line for bread. Of course, what is meant by law is not written. Entities of corporate religious freedom. I'd like to know where you found religious freedom as a corporate form of freedom when religious freedom is individual freedom. What makes you think that religious freedoms are classified as corporate religious freedoms, so you can count after a church or a religious community. It's no longer religious freedom. Citizens have freedom of association and public gathering to express religious beliefs. I would say, in order to make a confession, not religious beliefs, because, think carefully, you can make a big difference here, and I would always make a creed, not religious beliefs, as what is dominant in this law, what is important in this law. Citizens say they have the freedom to join churches and religious communities in accordance with the law. Citizens have the freedom to join churches. I'm asking you, the baby by christening access to the church. Who in her name decides whether to approach a church and never to be asked again, the baptism enters the church, and it is not free. There are some regulations that are churchlike, which you must fully define here, who will represent the rights of underage children when deciding whether to enter a church or not. "Church and religious communities are free and autonomous in determining their identity. "There's no such thing as a religious identity. Article 7: "For the enforcement of judicial decisions and judgments issued by the competent authorities of the churches and religious communities of the States shall provide appropriate assistance, at their request, in accordance with the law". This is so wide and wide, it's asking a question of what decisions to make. You know how many decisions can be made within the church. Will the state interfere in implementing those decisions? Maybe it's something on the property. You have the Act of Executive Procedure. How the state gets involved in something that you've completely separated from the state. When a decision is made within that church, let the State allow that decision to be implemented. No, the one who's independent of the state, self-administers his own decisions. He doesn't need a country here. I know of disputes in an eparchy when the state solved a dispute between bishops and monks. The property business was involved. In the end, they tear down the house, they say without permission. It's only because there's been a dispute. The Church must determine on its own how it will resolve disputes within the church and that state must not interfere, and the state must not arbitrate the decisions made by the church on the basis of its canon in particular, because it is so extensive and so generally said to ask a question in which cases. What if he tells someone in the church, you can't sit in this car anymore. He grabs it and sits down. Will the police come to get him out of the car, will he get into the monastery to get him out of the car? There's too much, I'd say, investments and stories about how it's going to be right, so you're rewriting the Constitution. The state cannot restrict the civil or political rights of a religious official based on the religious position or service it performs. It's a constitutional norm. No one can stop anyone from obstructing him or restricting his political rights. You cannot limit political rights to anyone in Serbia. If the priests wanted to run for office, they could run for office. If the church allows it, let them run. I don't know what that list would be called. I don't know how many votes she'd win. It is by the Constitution guaranteed the right of every citizen. Everyone has the right to choose and be chosen. It doesn't need to be worked out anymore. The exceptions are government employees and you know where they can't compete. Paragraph 7 says here: “The priest cannot be called upon to bear witness to the facts and circumstances he has learned during confession or from other confidential statements given to him in the doing of his priestly service. ” He can't. A point must be placed behind the word confession. It can't be done. Criminal law is clear here. He mentions the release from information obtained in confession you have to give to the authorities, but in doing your jobs, the priest can find out anything, he can find out who killed a child. If that's not a confession, he has to report it. You can't let him out of it. "The state protects the official uniform and its parts." What's he protecting from? By moths? What a standard this is, the state protects the uniform. I understand that the state protects the face of a priest's uniform, but to protect the uniform, whether it will be protected from stealing, from aging, from the sun, from the wind. I'd say the state is preventing the abuse of official uniforms and that would make sense. I understand the meaning, but get out of the way of the law that's not clear. The state protects the uniform. She's protecting her shoes. What goes into the priest's uniform, do you know? Now, of course, about that legal ability, I think it's one of the systemic mistakes of those two, and that's the entire organization of the church conceived from the government's point of view. When the Law on Political Parties is imagined, the political system, then the SRS, for example, became a legal person with one jury account. The funds the party receives for funding, based on the number of MPs or the number of committees, arrive at a single jury account, and we are obliged, and all MPs and committees know this, to take care of ourselves internally which municipal board and how much funds it has received from the state, as far as it can justify the accounts that it has spent. You are now introducing a dispersion of the financing of churches through its organisational parts. I don't think that's good. You leave it to the church, the money goes to the church's gyro-account, and you leave it to the church to then deploy that money to the organizational parts. You'll have better insight, better control, there won't be any objections that the state has helped some parishioner or parishioner more, and I apologize to other faiths that I don't know their organization. And if she had helped more because she was a minister from the neighborhood, because God forbid Velja Ilic, it would be shining there, it would not have been where Labus came from, since that church has not yet been brought to life in the Serbian people, but it is never known. Someone here has said that churches without laws have existed so far and that we have been lawless, but you are already acknowledging, in article 10, that legal subjectivity has been acquired under previously applicable laws, which are from 1953 and 1977, meaning communist laws. We're coming to traditional churches and I don't know this list from Articles 11 to 16, what you needed. Article 10 was enough. It's a confession to what it was. Now you here remind me of the great problem that existed in the Serbian people. A lot of people wrote about him, every one of them from their point of view, and you remind me, let's say, of a concord. So many people died in Belgrade, so many accidents were around that concord, we're passing it into the law now. I don't know if you, Minister, are sure who was right about that. What do we need it for? Why do we even need a story about when it's who? That's what you write in your explanation, SPC for that, that's why, that's why, that's why we singled them out, not in the law to write me why someone's singled out. Then I ask you, why didn't you explain it later in article 17 when you listed some, you call them confessional communities, and people call them different, science calls them different, which is sects. You've singled out four, five. There are 300 of them, they don't have a foothold, for me it's a huge number, let it be five thousand, they don't have a foothold in our people. What gives you the right to single out and favor some. When the people see that the state has mentioned and admitted someone in the law, it is easier to define it. That's not a problem for him, then. When the SPC loses a believer, he has some moral justification and says, my country has told me that this is fully recognized. That's why you should have followed the rules that apply, the churches and the religious communities, and beyond that you don't go, Minister. In addition, the EU, which you are calling on, is very concerned about the influence of the sects, especially those whose operation could not be entered, cannot enter, particularly which openly propagate religious rituals incompatible with morals and laws, and the EU is looking for a way to fight against the organisation of sects. You say in the confessional communities. Registration of churches and religious communities; I am particularly interested in the process of registering religious organisations. He can't sign up. I'd like that on request. To make a request. When they file a report, you just watch if there's 12 papers, 13, 14, if that's what he's done and good-bye. When he has a request, he has to meet the requirements. One who does not meet the requirements does not automatically get the right to complain that the minister refused to report it even though he submitted all the papers they asked for. For Article 27, I have failed to find out, Minister, whether this supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the Ministry in charge of matters of religion, in half of the law there is one final provision, so I would like to know whether it is the supervision of registration or whether it is the supervision of the whole law, the implementation of the whole law, so that language can be interpreted. If there's an oversight of the implementation of the entire law, transfer that norm to the transitional and final provisions, it doesn't belong here. Property protection: "The sacral and cultural heritage of churches and religious communities, including immovable cultural goods, cannot be taken away. "What about the property you can't determine is neither sacral nor heritage, and the property is church. Car's not sacral property, not heritage. Can someone take his car? If you were to say they can't be taken from them, then say otherwise, without the law of established procedure, property, including immobilized goods, not sacral, not heritage. "Until the adoption of rules on the return of the property of churches and religious communities, the competent state authority or local self-government authority may, at their request, comply with the law (which), make use of the seized property or parts thereof. "Here we are already entering a large part of the bill in which you are actually courting the church. What it means is that you are empowering one of the laws of local self-government to have the property of the state until it is passed by some law that you know will be passed, and as a provision that points to some standard that will be passed, you know that it is not valid, that until that time they may be subject to the use of the seized property or parts of it. Well, they can take advantage of that now. And is it a fee or no fee, whether it's auctioned or not, is it the most favourable bidder to choose? Anyone has property that can be admitted to use, per year, at five, for unlimited duration, so that this norm brings nothing to churches, yet nothing. This provision does not make any provision, as neither Articles 31 and 32 provide. You say that "in order to improve religious freedom, in agreement with churches and religious communities, funds for health, pension and disability insurance of priests, or religious officials, can be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. "I can, I can do anything, but the law doesn't write what it can, but what it does and how it's done. Anything that's not forbidden, it can, but it has to be regulated by law. How are we supposed to give you a map of the blast by this law now, because we give you the right to decide whether or not you want to finance the PIO, and I want the MPs and the law to decide. The government must not decide who will have free payments for health care, pensions, but the law. Do not assume the jurisdiction and authority of the legislator, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A team before you wrote in the light of the bill's proposal that the implementation of this law does not require additional resources in the budget. So it won't be financed from the budget. As you said below, "in the exercise of activity and the provision of income in accordance with this law, churches and religious communities can be completely or partially exempt from tax and other obligations. "It's a contractual language style -- may be, may be. What if you decide to be? Where are your funds in the budget, will the finance minister say, stop people, how much less tax in the budget of me, how are we going to settle these funds that we need additionally in the budget? I daren't tell you whether they should be or shouldn't be, it's my suggestion to commend or criticize. I don't know what to tell you here. If I criticize you, you'll say, we'll pay, and if I say what to pay, and you'll say, we won't. You can play with me as a MP because I can't understand the text, you leave everything to yourself, to your decision. When you decide, it will be paid, and when you don't decide, it won't. When you decide to free them from taxes, they'll be released, when you don't decide, they won't, and no one can tell you anything. Two months can be released, and two months no, all that says in the law. I can, and when I say I can, it means they don't have to. When you say he can be released from tax and other obligations in accordance with laws that introduce appropriate public income, somehow you present this law to me as a Constitution. This is now some basic law for many other laws, and when every minister who behaves afterwards, he will say, here, by the law of churches and religious communities, I can do it. It's the Constitution, it's the work of the Constitution. The constitution says, you can do this, you can do that, and the laws work it out. This law is not the Constitution, it must have worked out its obligation. Secondly, when he creates a commitment or releases obligations here, he immediately amends and amends the law to which that obligation was created or released because, for example, Lex superior replaced the Constitution. This all remains for interpretation later. The laws that remain for interpretation are not good, and it seems to me that you weren't fully prepared for this public debate of yours to succeed. I don't think the talks with representatives of churches and NGOs have given you enough material to be specific and you've left everything kind of unarranged, and the law to go to the polls to get support from another one, I must admit, a large segment in society. Article 33: "The divine space and time are protected and injureable, in accordance with the Constitution and the law and the autonomous law of churches and religious communities. "What about the confessional communities? What about their religious space, what about their time. Are they all equal, and they're all legal? So I'm telling you, get them out of the law. You've listed them, and nowhere after that, they're not in an equal position with the others. Then they're gone. Then it's something else, and then you denied me the right to admit to a truly Jewish and Muslim religious community the traits that raise them above the others that you put together with them. They really need to be raised. Then it's not good. I missed it, but it's not good. I can't sects together with the Jewish religious community and with Islamic, I can't, I can't have the same treatment they have, they're not the same for me. Article 34 paragraph 2: "Churches and religious communities can also build residential buildings, production and other facilities for their own purposes. "I suppose what you meant, but it can be written differently. For his own purposes, if it's renting, if it's his own need if he builds a building and rents it, then it's not called his own need. Next, for humanitarian purposes. If we get an interpretation from the minister that that's all, then what do we need for our own needs? Everything he builds, he builds for his own purposes, and will he sell, will he give, will he leave the commission, will there be a ceremony in that, what does it mean for his own needs? Can she get out of here? People build for their own needs, and what they do for the market, it's for his needs, to earn money by selling. Not to make it seem like it's only for its own purposes, in order to perform a religious ritual, because it's the church's needs. I'm just reading the basic text, and I'm deliberately not going to interpret the amendments, because we're going to get to the amendment. Again: "The competent state authority and the local self-government authority can budget funds... "It can, it shouldn't be written in law, if you say "must," then I could discuss it. "The competent authority of the local self-government is required to declare the initiative of the church and the religious community to implement a referendum on the introduction of self-increasing for the construction, maintenance and restoration of a religious facility, in accordance with the law." Did you read the referendum bill? Who is this competent authority that will respond to the request of the church or the religious community to hold a referendum? I think the referendum is the form of a public statement. The referendum is sought by the citizens and declared by the citizens. The church could carry out a referendum in its context, but in order to proceed with the referendum procedure, there must be a sufficient number of citizens' signatures. This educational work thing, I think it's completely regulated in our education laws adopted over the past few years, and this is just copying what it can be and how it can be. I think it's all fully regulated. If a man had to plead, and it would be very difficult, unless you belong to a ruling coalition, so it is imperative for you to vote for every bill, if a man had to plead without making anyone angry, he would say, "Better than nothing." As long as you've been doing this bill for so long, it could have been more complete, clearer and could have marked more reality in Serbia. Reality is what it is. Just as we are not all equal in politics, so the churches are not equal. You admit it, of course. The number of believers determines the equality of churches. The freedoms are equal, but in relation to the state, you know that whoever has the most believers, it's always the one the state asks when some church questions are on the agenda. I accept that. We didn't need modernism in this law. Just a little more tradition, and our tradition, in terms of relations with religious communities, is brighter. Whenever they resented us, the relationship to other religions, other churches, they couldn't blame us. The SPC is a perilous church and has always suffered from other churches, and has never taught her believers, nor will she learn, nor could it fall on fertile soil, to harass, persecute, adopt, kidnap something from other churches, and especially not the believers. That's why we'll wait to see how the debate and the declaration of amendments will go. I really recommend to you, Minister, that you have a little bit more serious, you have time, look at the remarks we've given you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25734	Minister Milan Radulovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25735	I thank Mr Nikolic for a truly detailed analysis of this Law, both basic structures and individual unspeakable members. A good part of these remarks, especially those of the key ones, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee, have been adopted in the form of amendments and have been incorporated into the law. What couldn't have changed and what we didn't quite agree on is the title of the Law. Religious freedoms are a constitutional category. This is a law that speaks of churches and religious communities and speaks exactly – although we have left it out in the amendment – corporate entities, more than individual freedoms. Individual freedoms are processed into three members, and then they're talking about corporate subjects of religious freedom. Of course, it does not mean that churches are founded under this law or that they are established under any law. It is known that churches were founded, especially how the Christian Church was founded. He founded the Son of God and the apostles. So, not by law, but by revelation. This is not a law that establishes churches, this is a law that speaks of the place of churches today in Serbian society. When we establish a legal continuity for churches and religious communities, we do it for simple reasons - we want to show, on the one hand, that these seven traditional churches have been previously treated in our legal tradition as important social institutions, as public churches and religious communities, and on the other hand we want to show that Serbia is not a wasteland as far as legal traditions are concerned. We have a long legal tradition, a good legal tradition. Now that we have no law in place, if we forget to rely on our tradition, it will seem as if Serbia is just now as one, I would not say prechristian, but the precivilisation community is beginning to recognize churches and religious communities, so it is some law that establishes them. So we insisted in the law on legal continuity: in order to rehabilitate, reconfirm our tradition, and to avoid passing a uniform law, undefined, a law in which no one mentions the name and last name, the law of the constitutional type that means nothing, the law that many countries that were under communism had to pass. So we insisted on our legal tradition, to show that we have these laws before those who want to dictate to us some empty constitutional-type law. Speaking of constitutional provisions, you have well noticed that this law behaves as a kind of constitution, directs and binds other laws. This, by nature, is the laws of constitutional character, but the existing constitution forbids us to prescribe that the state will allocate funds for, say, pension and social, because it's just telling us that we can. The ruling constitution says that the state can help churches and religious communities, there is no obligation. From that constitutional provision, we didn't make any commitment to the state, because the lawyers told us to go into collegiate with the constitutional provision. Where we fully agree, it is that Article 17 must be re-formed and the registration process must be provided for differently. Registration applications are requirements and are not registered by automated means, but after considering the requirements. Mr Nikolic, what with you as an experienced MP and a good knower of the Serbian legal system, I cannot agree with, is the way you propose to grant donations to churches and religious communities. You know that the Budget Law and the Budgetary System Act lead to the EC 4181, which is called - donations to NGOs. When someone donates, they can't give to someone and say, "Take this and schedule what you need." Donations are always intended. They are paid through the central account of churches, but the total amount cannot be allocated to eparchy, other churches and religious communities, but it is said: the state is interested in improving religious education. The state is interested in the four years of worship being among the best, if not the best secondary schools in Serbia, and they have conditions for it; the state is interested in funding the works of high theological literature, we are not interested in financing the church calendar, but we are interested in the translation of the works of holy fathers from ancient Greek or translation of the best works from the modern theological thought of Russia, Greece, England, France. It's not a market book, it can't support itself and we can finance it, but we can't finance some manifestations that can do it on our own. Simply, the law does not allow donations to be granted without purpose. Whoever grants the grant gives it for a particular purpose. Donations are intended by nature, and whoever received the grant must give evidence that he purposely spent the funds. For example. If a church publishing house gets the money to print the collected works of Nicodim Milaš, which is the best church historian and legal thinker we've ever had, then it has to be made available by Dontation, that is, with the help of the Ministry of Faith. We wouldn't give for another book. So that's what's not possible to accept. Since the lady has submitted the first amendment, most of these things that you asked for with your amendments, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee have introduced into their amendments (starting to delete the word 'own-minded'). So we have the possibility of an agreement; I suggested meeting with your MPs who submitted the amendments, you weren't there, so let's see, let's find some medium measure. It's not possible the way you're looking. Why isn't it possible? You spoke well of religious freedoms in Serbia, you spoke well of traditions, of the tradition of religious pluralism in Serbia. We know that Prince Milos has brought an order confessing his freedom to the Jews. We know Alexander Karadjevic has admitted freedom to the Protestants. We know that that contract the Kingdom of Serbia signed with the Holy See has been recognised by the Catholic Church. We know what you insist on. We know that we live in a country where there are not only traditional churches and religious communities, but there are also some new churches. For example, the Adventist Church existed in the 19th century, it existed in the Kingdom of Serbia, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, it was registered in the SFRY; the Baptist Church, all those listed in the Law, existed in the Kingdom of Serbia, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, received confirmation that they had the right to act freely and some kind of legal status, and were given the legitimacy of the Law of 1953. Now they're already registered. These are the religious organizations that exist. We need to figure out one thing. In addition to the new Protestant churches, there are false religious organizations that cover themselves with religious inspiration, for God's sakes, and act destructively. They're a member of the 3rd. The law is completely eliminated. None of them can be registered. Secondly, if someone lied, and presented that they spread faith and love for a man, and began to smuggle cars, he did not do basic work and by law, you saw for himself, he simply deleted himself from the Register. If someone attacks private property, freedom of children, if they're being abused, it's not the subject of this law. This law does not have the instruments to punish it, but it prohibits it, and it is obliged to act by the Criminal Code, many other laws, because these are all criminal acts and acts of social prevention. The phenomena discussed here are destructive, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Interior and the judiciary. These phenomena have nothing to do with faith, but social pathology. Different forms of social pathology are treated in different institutions and in different ways. We simply couldn't because there were obviously sects, quasi-religious organizations of vague intentions, or clearly witnessed bad intentions and bad practices, we couldn't limit religious freedom for them all. We don't treat them like religious communities. They're not churches, they're not religious communities, they're not religious organizations. These are some informal or formal groups of citizens, illegal or legal organisations operating on totally other wavelengths. None of them have inspiration, true inspiration, in the New Testament, or in the Old Testament. They find inspiration in some psychological theories, some alternative psychotherapy methods. No one can say that a society for transcendental meditation is a religious community. It's just out of every logic. It's a group that deals with psychotraining. Psychorening any kind of can fall into alternative medicine methods, alternative psychiatry. But if it damages the health of those involved in this kind of training or therapy, then it falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior that must prevent such phenomena. Such phenomena, what is a complete abuse, or what is a false takeover of the name of a religious community, which is a cover of religious freedom and inspiration in order to achieve other goals, such phenomena and such organizations in the Law are not concerned, and they do not have a place here. Now they all give an example of satanics. What does Satanists have to do with faith? The first article says that this is a law that regulates relationships between people who believe in God. I can't recognize anti-religious groups. There are anti-religious organizations, but they do not belong to religious communities, neither to churches, nor to them in any way to treat this law. They simply don't have any possibility of being registered under this law. Mr. Nikolic, you've been so viseous and found both logical and grammatical antiquities in the text of the Law, and thank you for that, you can always find it. You have one inconsistencies. It is for full religious freedom, for Serbia to present itself as a country that respects its tradition of tolerance of churches and religious communities; it is also for Serbia to present itself as a country that has moved away in the care of religious freedoms, not to lag behind; it is for everything that is positive both in our tradition and in our modernity. But you have to admit what you said yourself, and I'm here to publicly say about this pay phone. This law gives freedom to all, but this law leaves the state the right to cooperate with only some churches and religious communities, and others do not. You're all free if you don't act destructively, if you don't step on Article 3, but the state has the right to choose which church it will cooperate with. It's because this is a law that has united two interlocking principles: the principle of full religious freedom and the regime so-called. Confessed churches. The regime of a recognized church implies exactly this: you are all free, we all respect you, no one can touch you, no one can attack objects or adventistic or any church, because it is a criminal act and because it is not allowed by this law, because it does not tolerate our face, because it is also condemned by traditional churches and religious communities; it is the fact that someone attacks on anyone's temple, because they do not condemn people who belong to other religious organizations, they do not reject people, but they just do not accept their teachings. So from all of this is a simple attitude -- we respect you, the state protects you, but the state can cooperate with you, to give you tax breaks, or not to. Why can't he? And why doesn't he have to give it to everyone? If the Ministry of Agriculture can say that this year it will touch or subsidise the production of wheat and sunflowers, and it will not soybean because we do not have the need for soybeans, the regime of recognised churches leaves the state right to assess its interests – its interests, state interests, national interests, national interests – with some it cooperates, with some not. But here I fully agree with you, freedom belongs to everyone, except those who threaten other people with their freedom. Freedom belongs to all because he has given freedom not to this law or to that law; but freedom is a gift of God to man; and everyone who denies man's freedom opposes God's will and his plans. So the law cannot limit freedom, but of course it can limit their abuses. Thank you again for the detailed analysis. When it comes to amendments, we may have a chance to get along. What was crucial in your amendments was Article 17. Article 17 doesn't look like that anymore. We've come up with a compromise solution that isn't as complete as yours, because your solution would have to be erased and banned from any registration. A colleague shows -- of course, but that would be a drastic violation of religious freedom. We have found a compromise, and you can, of course, by your conscience discuss this law and the amendments you have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25736	Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25737	You touched me a little bit, scratched that surface a little bit. Here, now I'm asking you, I mean I wasn't contradictory and you said what I said. Religious freedoms of course on one side, equality on one side, but the state chooses to co-operate with, even with those small communities that have 0.0001% of the electoral body, can turn to the state for any co-operation. But, let's say, co-operation with the Roman Catholic Church. You've been inviting us to a concord since July 26th 1914. Then it happened in 1941, 1941 to 1945, and it happened in 90 to 2006. The Roman Catholic Church participated absolutely in Jasenovac, participated absolutely in the cover-up and taking away of all Ustasha villains and criminals through the Vatican into Latin America. The Roman Catholic Church repeated, by coming to power in Croatia, all mistakes from World War II, that you would finally read in the list "Politika" that about 100,000 Serbs had gone into Catholicism in the new, democratic, modern Croatia. And you know why it goes from faith to faith, I guess you read the Pilipenda bar, so you know how it's done. That's where the state has to answer. The state has to show it in some way. I just, I'm not a priest, I don't have to do ecumenism, I can stand for it, I can approve, but there's no reconciliation, there's no real one, and I know there's no one between those who keep committing crimes and those who suffer crimes. This is what makes Serbia a specific space for freedom of religion and you know it very well. Everyone is truly free in this country. I'd like him to stay free for the rest of his life. But you can also freely step forward as a representative of the government to defend what is dominant in Serbia and the Serbian people in terms of religion. So, you're going to work with those churches that don't spread hate, that don't carry out religious terror, that don't deal with proselytism, that don't kidnap other people's children. Do you know how many children there are in Croatia that are Orthodox? They're all born Orthodox or born Orthodox, and now they're still harassed by their former names. They're obliged to change their name so that someone doesn't recognize them there if they're Serbs. Then they harass them - and what's your name? That's why I told you at the beginning, it's very hard to talk about this law without some newspaper coming at you tomorrow, because in Serbia you have a newspaper for Kostunica, for Dinkic, for the yellow ones. There's no one for radicals. Every discussion, I resent someone, and I resent some television. What am I gonna do, move on, push on? It's very difficult to talk about religious freedoms. He to whom you provide them in your country, where he is dominated by his church does not provide those rights for others. And some reciprocity when you're guarding a state you have to respect, some reciprocity. Of course none of our bishops would tell you -- you know, yes, he's right, Tomislav Nikolic. He won't. He's a man who has a better relationship with faith than I do. I don't respect many commandments. Some God took away from me, some me and all that. I'm pretty honest, but not enough. I'm not a judge here, and I'm not a judge. But, I say, the state defends itself at every turn. This country has been open since 2000 too much for different influences, mostly for the negative and it feels in our official policy. For when the Danites come, they come with the best stories and bring gifts, and do not suffer the politicians who negotiate with them, and who accept their terms, but the people. That is why politicians are obsessed with being able to talk to whoever you want in the European Union, only one question is being asked - what have the people, of all these influences, of this penetration, of assessing the law that we are making here exclusively whether it is in line with EU legislation. Now, find me a non-EU country that behaves like this, or even EU member states. And they have the right to autonomy in terms of many solutions, and you know it very well. Anyway, unfortunately, I wasn't there when we wrote the amendments, mostly it's all great, you did a good job. Maybe we could have been a little sharper in writing the amendments, but I know your trouble, Minister. Milovanovic also had a proposal prepared, so we gave up. Who knows what they'd tell us at the time when she was a black-and-red coalition, what you called her. Who knows what they'd tell us. And he was nothing less free of that law and he provided no less religious freedoms and rights than you are now providing. That's why, I say, you're dealing with dangerous matter and your happiness that you act like such a good man, otherwise someone else from the ministers came out here, who knows what would happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25738	The word has Ivan Zivadinović G17 plus, then Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25739	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, G17 Plus, will support this law as a loyal partner in the government because 95% of the population of Serbia is expressed by the 2002 census as people who believe. Of course, it's a respectable number, we have to respect it and it's saddening that for 15 years, the state of Serbia has no law that regulates this issue, although it had a law that regulates this problem even at a time when there was much weaker legislative activity in the 19th century. This law will provide religious freedoms in accordance with the human rights guaranteed by various statutes, and Serbia is a signator of all these charters. And it is said in article 3 that religious freedom "should not be used by jeopardising the right to life, the right to health, children's rights, the right to personal and family integrity and the right to property, nor by provoking and encouraging religious, national or racial intolerance. "We are late for the countries of the European Union, although many of the members of the European Union have a state religion, such as Greece, Sweden and Denmark, and even in their territory, such as the Saint of Montenegro, do not allow all these rights to be applied because women there are not allowed to move. This law also encourages the development of religious culture, which we have forgotten, and it is about the traditions of our people. Something that made me happy when I read this law, is that religious rituals will be able to be performed freely in schools, health institutions, and the military. And now I'm going to tell you why. In 2002, I was at the airport in Nis, at 63, serving the army, from October to December, there for the first time was a military priest. The situation at that time at the airport, as regards morality, friendship, responsibility, was quite different from other military units, and I can recommend that this provision be introduced into an amended version of the military law. Of course, the law provides for ways and forms of registration and acceptance and confirms the legal continuity of churches and religious communities. Some have the continuity of 20 centuries, some much shorter, but we'll even them out. It is precious that this law guarantees priests that they cannot be called to testify about the facts and circumstances that the priest learned during confession and this occasion I must express my support for Mr. Tom Nikolic's discussion, which suggested that there be a point here, because the rest of this sentence is very problematic. Of course, this law also confirms the social rights of the priest, that they can have support for pension, health and social security and from the state, but the possibility is that they can establish their own pension, social and health funds, and that in the context of these funds, as well as some of the other activities they perform, they can have tax reliefs. Of course, as in the whole world, tax relief is foreseen for church donors and religious communities, and that's another good thing. This law unequivocally confirms the independence of the state from churches and religious communities, equality before the law. This law confirms something else. The MPs mentioned that the Faculty of Education in Belgrade has been released from the university for the last 50 years, although the Faculty of Education in Belgrade is one of the founders of Belgrade University. As someone who was a student-produced in his time at the Faculty of Chemistry in Belgrade, I know that students and students of religious schools and colleges had no rights like we did. They couldn't go to homes, they couldn't be students' appointments, and I think it's an injustice that will be corrected by this law. Of course, after accreditation by the Ministry of Education and these church and religious schools will be allowed, of course, if they have appropriate educational programs, to issue diplomas that will be recognised throughout the country and I would like to thank the minister, who unfortunately came out, for the promises he fulfilled 15 days ago. I would like to thank him on behalf of all my Uzicans because he gave the monastery of September, which was burned in the 16th century, two million dinars from the Fund provided by the Serbian Government at the level of 200,000 dinars this year for the restoration of churches and religious facilities. He helped restore the strings in the monastery, where the first Serbian book was printed on Serbia's territory in 1537, 40 years after Gutenberg. This law, as some colleagues at the beginning of the discussion deliberately wanted to demonstrate, will not guarantee the political loyalty of churches and religious communities to the state, but will therefore guarantee that the churches and religious communities are guaranteed by the education, morals and culture of this state.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25740	The word has Radisa Ilic, then Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is unfortunately not here, although what I'm about to say is important for the MPs, but also for the citizens of Serbia who listen to this. So the draft law on churches and religious communities is on the agenda. Before I start talking about this law, I would like to say something as a member of the Committee on European Integration, to which many today have called, and in fact I have a comment on the material delivered to the members of the Committee on European Integration. It is extremely inappropriate for MPs of the National Assembly, in particular SRS MPs, to be planted in the official material of the Assembly Committee of Information with the famous Ustasha Log B92. In it, the opinions of some NGOs, in my opinion, are irrelevant to this law. And as I later heard here, it was only about the necessary information as the archbishop of Belgrade's Hotchevar thinks of the bill. I think it took another instance to find out this information, not to read here from the site B92 what some NGOs think about the proposed law and, as you can see here, a group of NGOs gathered in the coalition for the lay state. I'd just like to mention which NGOs are involved. There are the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, the Centre for Peace and Development of Democracy, the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies, the Youth Initiative for Human Rights and Women in Black. If the leaders of this committee, or the Assembly Service, wanted to transfer part of what has been written in public in the last few days, could have taken off the "Evening News", "Kurira", "Starta", "Great Serbia", could have seen and read what Sladjan Mijaljević, president of the Truth Association, was referring to the protection of sect victims. As far as these NGOs are concerned, I'd like to mention one fact. I'd like to link it to an event that took place in 2003. The "Santathan" sect appeared in the village of Beli Potok near Belgrade. A great deal of dust has been raised over all of this, primarily people from the local community have clashed with members and sects, and I would only quote one section from the Memorandum and the sects mentioned: "It is not important if someone has never practiced handling firearms, if he shoots with spiritual practice, singing God's name, the bullet will certainly hit the target, because the power of God's name is enormous. If anyone eats God's name while beating someone, he's not an aggressor, but God does this shop." Now comes what makes there are NGOs. Then in 2003, the Humanitarian Law Fund, i.e. Natasa Kandic and the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, with Sonja Biserko headed by the state, demanded that the White Stream residents who did not allow Satan to carry out their religious work be caught as soon as possible. Today's discussion would begin with two characteristic examples of the work of certain religious organizations in Serbia, and I mentioned bion ten years ago from Zaječar, when a father of Jehovah’s Witnesses did not allow a son, who had perforation of the ulcer to receive blood and, of course, his son died afterwards, and he did not allow his son to receive other people’s blood from religious beliefs. Also, this was about killing soldiers by satanists in a barracks in Vranj and Capco, and I don't want to say it again. And the point is, now someone can say that those people who did it, too, did something. That's exactly what Mr. Minister is going to have to legalize this law. Does anyone think at all that some sect in Serbia will write in its description of the ritual just what really reflects the work of the sect? No, even the names will adapt to what the minister would need to legalize them with his provisions of the law. For the last 15 years, countless incidents have occurred in Serbia, and there have been tragic situations, and whose wines are just religious sects. If we consider a large number of those who today treat the consequences of their indiscretion in mental hospitals, families who have been torn apart, who have passed through the torture of their family member who is a member of the sect, then that number is far greater than is assumed. In the 1960s, drug abuse was referred to as individual situations, individual cases. But today, 40 years after the start of the drug abuse on our premises, it's like a real monster. That's how 10 years ago we talked about the first appearances of religious sects on our premises as individual cases. In 20, 30 years, however, we will likely have an alarming situation in Serbia as well. The figures I'm about to present now I think it will interest the public in Serbia, but I also think the minister knows them. In SCG, according to unofficial data, about 400,000 members of the sect, although on the latest list some 16,000 have declared that they officially belong to a religious organization, or sect. If it is known that only an adventist in Serbia, it turns out that they are a cult, there are between 80 and 100 thousand, that means that the number from the last list falls into the water. As for the number of sects and associations that can be classified as religious, the number moves around 320, with about 70 officially registered, many as citizens' associations. Especially a large expansion sects are observed before the collapse of SFRY itself. Looking at the way individual sects operate and their training from the center, usually in America, where they were created, their main goal was to challenge defetism, reluctance to weapons, or defence of the country, desertion, etc. What the public in Serbia needs to know, a large number of sects that appear today in Serbia, were mainly created in the United States, most of which in the 20th century. I wouldn't count them now, although some of them are very well known to our citizens. All these numerous and religiously different sects, associations, movements, were united and directed in a new age, i.e. New age. The creators of the new world order policy, as well as religions, are the new age of masseuse, and all its factors can be seen throughout the pyramid of hierarchy. A significant segment is occupied by religious sects and new religions. They're mixed from all over the world, with one goal only, to crash traditionally. The goal is clear, loss of identity and individual and nation, so that everything is prepared for the great Orwell leader. As for the new age, it is actually a project of naked globalisation and it has long been drawn by the Bilderberg Group, Kissinger, Bzežinski, Cyrus Vance, we are well-known, then the Trilateral Commission, Rockefeller and many others. So now in Serbia and every country on the globe, we have a flood of sects. Their mission was passed from one of the Pentagon's centers. Let us not forget the child of a new age, or new age, which is Amnesty International, we well-known organization that was very active in our premises during previous war conflicts. When it comes to Article 37, which is the possibility that churches and religious communities can establish institutions from preschool to university, I fear Serbia will face the flood of sectarian schools and colleges. Also, it is not explained in Article 17, which is still a confiscation community, although those that you have cited are also discriminatory and turns out to be sects. A large number of sects and religious organisations perform first in disguise, under the name of scientific or cultural organizations of international character. I'll give you an example, the Unification Church, known as the Mun Church, it stands behind the Family Federation for Peace in the world, then there's a Professor's Academy for World Peace, the World Church Community, etc. This second organization, the World's Professor's Academy of Peace, has branches in 100 countries of the world. We founded a section in 1989, consisting of 40 famous professors of universities and scientific workers. The president of the branch is a doctor of science, not to mention his name, a timely minister in the government of Milan Panic and one of the former leaders of the ICN Galenika, who also signed an introduction to the book of referendums held at the 1994 event in Belgrade. Serbia's public probably remembers young Vuk Andrejevic, whom the family barely pulled from the claws of this sect ten years ago, who arrived in the United States through an international exchange of students. Giving opportunities to open educational institutions to religious communities, here is thought of by religious organizations that may be established and recognized, will only further strengthen their position and their related sects whose headquarters are in the United States. Then even stronger, indoctrinating children literally from small legs, will slowly but surely destroy the national awareness of the Serbian people, and above all Serbian youth. Serbia's public should also know for an illustration that, for example, the adventist church, i.e. sect, owns 4.267 primary schools, 919 secondary schools, 500 higher schools, 22 colleges, plus a medical school in California, 154 hospitals, 336 clinics, 71 nursing homes, 60 publishing houses. Adventists own as many as 30 food industries, several planes and a smaller fleet of merchant ships; they publish 300 lists in 273 languages. In Belgrade, they have a radio station, Radio "The Voice of Hope". It's similar with other listed sects. Since colleagues would like to speak, I'm going to cut short what I want to say, but I would just like to add that someone can say that you think that some things about the EU have to reflect on us as well. In the last position of Article 22, just to quote, you say, when making a decision to register, the Ministry also takes into account the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as administrative and judicial decisions regarding the registration or operation of a particular religious organisation in one or more EU Member States. For this reason, I would like to give you the following examples of how certain EU countries have acted in the ongoing trials against individual sects in their countries. So on January 18, 1997, in Italy, in Milan, the court sentenced 29 members of the Scientological Church for the exploitation of mentally retarded people. Then, in 1994, the California State Supreme Court ruled that the Scientological Church was obliged to pay $6.5m in compensation to a few former members for the surviving multi-year torture. In Greece, 1997, the Greek court banned the work of the Scientological Church, and the Court of Appeal banned Jehovah’s Witnesses in 1987, also banned the work of Hare Krishna. Then, Jehovah’s Witnesses are banned in Switzerland. The draft law is also being prepared in Germany and Sweden, if it has not already been adopted, on the prohibition of Jehovah’s Witnesses. In Germany, too, in January 1997, the law prohibits Scientologists from functioning. In Japan, the court also clashed with the Unity Church in 2004, and the first measure is the seizure of land, buildings and property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25742	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25743	One concrete and one principled explanation. These examples, Mr. MP, which you have instructed for such examples, and it says that we can treat the decisions of the courts in the countries of the European Union, that is something that allows us to act as they do, without being branded to restrict religious freedoms. Here in the early afternoon there were misunderstandings about what religious education is and who is in charge of maintaining it; whose powers are these; why should religious schools have organisational, programming and personnel autonomy? The concept of religious school involves school, and it is clear from the Law, which teaches children for priests and religious servants. Religious school is a religion, a Catholic high school and a medres. We don't have other religious schools. There's some more high school, and other churches have their own high school, like the Adventivist Church. It's religious schools that started churches, and they're putting together programs themselves, and they're choosing the teaching frame, and they have organisational and programming autonomy, which means, for example, that they don't have to follow the calendar of the Ministry of Education, because in all the seminaries they go to school on Saturdays, but that's why they don't go to one day with a red letter. These religious schools are spoken of. This should be different from religious education done through religious education in primary and secondary schools. The government's Committee for Religious Education and the Ministry of Education is responsible for religious science, and the Minimal Ministry of Religion. It must respect certain standards that apply to all, prescribed by the Ministry of Education. In religious schools set up by churches, which support churches and can help them and often be assisted by the state, the Ministry of Education has no jurisdiction whatsoever. But if those schools want to enter the education system, to be accepted as all other schools, then minimum standards must be met. The minimum standards are if it is said that for each class there must be a professor with a college degree, that one professor cannot teach five classes, that the priest cannot teach English or national history or Serbian literature and that those courses must be taught by the one who graduated from the relevant university. Only in this segment must religious schools adapt to the standards of the Ministry of Education. If they don't want to enter the education system, then their autonomy is impeccable. Now I have to say something when it comes to what this law allows and what makes it impossible. You listed what the Christian Adventist Church has in the world, what is in Serbia. Is that under this law? It's not. She has it because there are other laws. This law, what has already been acquired by some other laws, simply cannot be abolished, has no intention, no reason. Adventivist college at Banov Brdo has a good teaching program, has good teachers and has very bright students. They showed nothing to act as sociable; rather, they showed the will to cooperate with other theological colleges that do not accept them; they did not take any action that could be branded unacceptable from a social, cultural or medical point of view. Therefore, it is their acquired right, and it is not those rights that have been acquired under this law that we are talking about today, but under other laws. I beg you, please, SRS, when we talk about this, that we have reality in mind. Nothing makes this law any more possible to anyone than it does now. This law introduces order and order in this area. This law does not serve to satisfy the desires of one, the other, or the third. Laws aren't written to grant wishes. This law does not fulfill the wishes of any church. This law introduces order and makes justice right. The point of the law is to ensure freedom, to settle justice and to impose order. As far as desire is concerned, pleasure, dissatisfaction, it does not fall within the subject of legal regulation, it is part of direct life. So you can't represent the public now that we're passing a law that we want to encourage some small religious communities to act more actively. They act as they do, they exist, their freedom is guaranteed by this law, but order is introduced, automatic registration is lifted for all. We have abolished automatic registration and traditional churches by amendments, starting with the following assumption. Perhaps the SPC does not want to be registered, perhaps the Islamic religious community in Serbia does not want to be registered. It is an elemental religious right, the right of every religious organization, to be registered or not to be registered. When the law was passed in 1953, many churches registered, especially those not registered in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but the SPC never registered under that law. Since it is the law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, that it has been abolished, the SPC from 1945 to today acts as an alleged organization; it is not illegal, because we all know it exists, but it is alleged because it did not enter the legal system, it did not want to register. This law cannot register anyone by force, anyone who wants to register, desires, has no automation; and whoever does not want to, does not have to register, it is part of his right; and whoever is registered, and whoever is not registered, must enjoy freedom. Freedom is guaranteed for those who enter the Register, as well as those who do not enroll, unless they violate the third.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25744	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your detailed explanation. Please, I remind you, the minister gets a word whenever he asks for it, and it's unlimited, please, just a little while, a time in which he can clarify a certain position. But, you know, the remarks that are heard are made, but it's common to put out the closing word at the end of the debate in particular, which will be on Wednesday, so that all remarks can be answered in detail. I thank you for your willingness to assist the MPs in the mutual debate, but also for the willingness to work effectively. For this reason, the first word now has the People's MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, then the National MP Stevica Dedjanski, and then the National MP Jovan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25745	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the proposal for a law on churches and religious communities, the first one since 1993, so, after 13 years of legal void, which was the ideal space for the awakening and expansion of sects of various kinds, which destroyed the spiritual and moral values of this society, and which rarely attacked young people. Since 1993, there has been no law, and it has been brought to the federal level in 1953 and has been characteristic of a single-party state, in which the government has declared atheism as state religion and in which the principle of separation of the state from the church has been consistently and radically implemented, i.e. the church has been completely declared public life. It was also not recognised the continuity of any of the churches that existed, nor the religious communities, although the law did not even mention that they existed, so it was not possible to be suicidal, speciality, traditions, continuity and acquired the rights of all these churches and religious communities. The regime for the establishment of churches and religious communities was completely liberal, if I may say so at all, because they only registered because they applied, without any standards or any more detailed opportunities to see what churches and religious communities were like. So even the central register isn't run. In the meantime, democratisation of society, churches returned to public life, and neither was there any law, nor was there any legal act that allowed the institutions to relate between the church and the state and to determine the place and role of the church in society. I have to say that since 1993, all governments have been trying to pass a law that would cover this area, but matter has really been very subtle and it's really been very difficult to get into this space. Then they simply left that law uninvited. I must say that the government, whose Prime Minister, Vojislav Kostunica and the Ministry, with Minister Radulovic headed for the first time since 1993, has put forward a bill like this before lawmakers. The bill relies on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Charter, as well as the Convention on Human Rights, and is indeed a development of constitutional norms. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, however, contains a number of principles confirming religious freedom, but without regulation there are no questions of the legal position of churches and religious communities, the status of their property, the way of funding, the social status of priests and religious officials, as well as students and students of religious schools, the place and role of religious education and religious culture in society, as well as issues of establishing and registering religious organisations and problems of abuse of religious freedoms. All these issues needed to be regulated by a special law, in order to introduce in this sensitive and important area of social life standards that apply in other European countries, and above all in EU Member States. Speaking of the EU, I must say that there is no single religious system in the EU, such as there are no single standards and norms according to which such laws, therefore, the laws which cover this area, agree, but are completely free to adopt religious laws in accordance with their specific situation and thus regulate matter. What I have to say is that certain European states absolutely do not have a single law for this area alone, but in other laws are regulated issues of religious nature. For example, the laws of Germany and Austria are good examples in Europe, and these are the laws to which this law was respected. The objectives of the Bill on Churches and Religious Communities, which is ahead of us, are to establish democratic and free co-operation relations between the state and the church; to establish a place and guarantee the rights of churches and religious communities, and to contribute to the harmonisation of our legal system with the EU legal system in the area of religious freedoms and rights. This proposal comes from very concrete things, such as the Serbian legal tradition of regulating relations between the state and the church. I must mention here that the first law governing the states and churches in Serbia was passed only a year after the Sretenjski Constitution, so in 1836, and that the spirit and logic of this law permeated all the laws on state and church relations in the 19th and first half of the 20th centuries, as well as that all the laws that had already been regulated in our legal tradition were system-based constitutional laws and usually lasted as long as a social, or state system. So, Serbia had a long legislative regulation in time from 1836 to today, which indicates that we were not a spiritual and legal desert in which there was no legal regulation in this area, and that this proposal was not at all the first law to settle these issues, and that we cannot and should not forget a series of laws that were passed from 1836 until the second half of the 20th century, which represent great and high achievements in the level of achievement of standards in the field of religion and religious freedoms. So throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, all religious communities and churches had their names, identity, continuity and tradition, and Serbia was multiconfessional, as is now the European state in which all religions that exist in Europe live, very liberal and then, as it is now, and religious pluralism is part of our tradition. This proposal also comes from legal solutions and practices in some EU countries and member states, I have already said an example of Germany and Austria, and it comes from the general international conventions on human rights, as well as from the European institutions' views on the achievement of religious freedoms. The general principles that are incorporated into this law, in fact, show that this law meets high standards in this area. The first is the principle of total religious freedom of every individual, or citizen, which means affirmation and protection of the rights of churches and religious communities, without which there can be no individual religious freedom. The second principle is the protection of collective religious rights, which is very important, given that, according to the latest census since 2002, 95% of Serbian residents have declared to belong to one of the churches and religious communities. Then, the principle of co-operation between the state and the church, where co-operation is established as a possibility and a right, not a obligation, and where the church and the state act freely in this co-operation. Also, such understandings and application of the principle of state co-operation with churches and religious communities are defined and interpreted in a modern way by the principle of separation of state and church, which implies, on the one hand, that churches and religious communities are recognised and guaranteed the right to participate in public life, and on the other hand, the state of the church guarantees uncut and full autonomy, where the state does not interfere in the internal life and mission of the church. I have stated these principles in order to point out that the subtlely expressed principles of unimpeached freedom of personality, or human rights standards, as we call them today, are brought into this bill in a very harmonized relationship with the rights and autonomy of the church and the religious communities. Now I would like to say something about the parts of this law, because I want to point out how precise and well it covered all the controversial and open issues regarding the state and the church and the religious communities. The law is made up of three parts. In the first part, basic provisions describe the content of freedom of religion, religious discrimination is prohibited and the reasons why religious freedom can be limited are prescribed, and that is what some of us point to during this principle debate. I find that very important because religious freedom must not endanger the right to life, health, children's rights, the right to personal and family integrity, the right to property, should not cause and encourage religious, national and racial intolerance. It's accurate and clear in the law. In the second part, which has three continents, the legal position of churches and religious communities has been regulated. In the chapter - autonomy are defined entities of corporate religious freedom, guaranteed freedom of association, the autonomy of churches and religious communities, the position of autonomous regulatory churches and religious communities in the state-law system. The rights of priests and religious officials in society have been established, the legal capacity of churches and religious communities has been established, and what is very important seems to me the most important, churches and religious communities have been recognised continuity in legal subjectivity under the laws that were previously passed. The second continent refers to the registration of churches and religious communities. It's the same theme that's been mentioned here many times, it seems very trendy, because it's perfectly accurate in the law given what we've raised as questions. So here is clearly and precisely prescribed mandatory management and content of the register. All legal churches and religious communities are entered in the register automatically, and a precise registration procedure has been given, the precise way of using the name, the procedure of the registration application has been given, and the reasons for deleting it from the register. This part is extremely important, because it is very important to know who are the persons representing a particular church or religious community, where their generalities are, or addresses. When a problem arises, the state knows who it can and should address. The state has insight into the activities of each church and religious community based on what they wrote, as well as on the sources of permanent incomes of religious organisations, which is very important, because a religious organisation that achieves goals other than those for which it is established can be deleted from the register. How? The ministry has envisioned an authority that will oversee law enforcement. In the chapter on assets and financing, identified sources of funding for churches and religious communities. Data is the possibility of co-operation between the state and the church on a material scale, and social rights are governed by priests and religious officials. The third part is the work of the church and it also has three parts. The first, religious activity, defines spaces, places and institutions in which it can be emphasized, worshiped, and for the first time since World War II, allows for the possibility that worship and religious rituals can be performed at school, in children's and social protection institutions, in police and military facilities, in prisons, which in fact makes a great step for me, because worship and the need for worship are approaching those who need it and in certain conditions when it is impossible to meet in the temple. Also prescribed are the conditions for the humanitarian activity of churches and religious communities, where churches and religious communities are obliged to make their full name visible, which is once again extremely important because of some of ours, not just our previous experiences, many of which were bitter and some dangerous. Now we come to another extremely ticklish area, which seems to me also exploited during this principle discussion, which is education. Although this area has never been regulated by this law before, it was a problem in the lives of many young people who decided for some reason to attend religious schools. Here the law clearly defines religious educational institutions, lays down the rights of establishment and standards under the applicable law in this area, which must be satisfied so that they can be established. Also, the possibility of them getting involved in the country's education system, as well as the possibility. If you wish, you must satisfy a certain law in the field of education that we have brought here. Then, the legal fact and status of diplomas acquired in religious educational institutions, which can have the same legal fact as diplomas acquired in state institutions and private schools, is extremely significant. Of course, I think this is an extraordinary move, because I have to say that I am from education, and I know that the educational standards of many religious educational institutions, when I say that I mean the Faculty of Education, are much higher than the standards of Karic University, various mega and giga trends, singles and so forth. And I have to mention something that is current in my city in Valjevo, that at the same time one of these universities can graduate and master. If you've been a student long enough, then don't waste your time, graduate and master. The social rights of students and students of religious educational institutions, as well as the right to religious education in state, private elementary and secondary schools, have been established here. Veronauk has entered schools for a number of years, has proved to be useful. Of course, again as a possibility, some want to teach her, some won't, for me it's extraordinary, because you have the freedom to decide what you want. The same question when I touched this is the question of who decides on behalf of the children before the law, the parent decides for his underage child up to 18 years of age. Therefore, even here to choose whether a child will teach him one or the other object offered is on the parent. In the section of cultural activity, cultural action has identified cultural and scientific actors in the composition of churches and religious communities, given the same rights as having their own publishing and informative work, again with a very important work behind it. Data is the possibility of the state funding from its budget the cultural and scientific activities of churches and religious communities, again as a possibility. And the minister spoke nicely of the need of the state. Of course, the need for the state to finance scientific action is because from the field of church law, church history, church philosophy we can really just learn from it. After all I have said I must say that the proposal for this law is extraordinary to me, fully in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter and the Convention on Human Rights, that it has very high standards of respect for human rights, is in line with the laws of the members of the European Union that have passed such laws, I speak of Germany, it is balanced, comprehensive and, most importantly, it continues continuity with other laws in this area that Serbia has had since the Sretenj Constitution, and so we say. Since the bill's proposal is in the spirit of the best Serbian Orthodox tradition, the DSS parliamentary group will vote for it. One more piece of advice from me. On the night between Saturday and Sunday, I was listening to an accident, I'm not sure which station, I've heard that it's very interesting to the press now that the law and what was going on on on that Committee on European Integration is being told by people who weren't on that board, but who were sitting in their office near that area where the discussion took place. As the man who's been listening to it all around, he didn't hear well, I pray that the next time the committees happen he speaks much louder, so if that's what the press is interested in, at least the interpretation is correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25746	The word has a folk MP, Stevica Dedjanski, Jovan Todorovic, and Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25747	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as Mr. Minister says, should appreciate the reality when discussing this, so I would like to start with some concrete basic and first remarks. The general opinion of everyone who deals with this topic and who understands it is that the law is quite quick and quite poorly prepared. I don't believe in evil, but I'll tell you why. We think there are very few professional people, or almost no one is consulted. As is known to our public, probably to Mr. Minister, there are about 20 professional people in Serbia and a few associations. No one at that public hearing, which was organized, was invited to make comments in due time, and that was not good. All of this, as we have heard so far, has happened during the 1990s, we have seen that it has been prepared very seriously, that it has been invented much earlier and now we see that we have been defeated and politically, and economically, and militaryly, and it remains only spiritually. We are witnessing that this too has now come to an end. This bill becomes a somewhat shameful act of capitulation, even if it was the first intention. This law will cause several and ugly events, which will inevitably follow whether you want it or not. We think he'll react every time he sees his child being taken into spiritual slavery. These incidents have so far been controversial and to a small extent, because the people were hoping that the state would protect them, but by this law we are totally leaving it at the mercy of these citizens and fellow citizens. Since this law, as I said, has not passed a public debate, the law now challenges three different groups of people. First, these are the people of the organizations that are the very religious communities, as you call it, or sects as they say it in the people, who would like even more rights and opportunities, minorities to equalise themselves with the Serbian Orthodox Church. The second group is on call critics, which our MP showed earlier, which are certain groups that are on call critics, who serve to attack everyone alive only to attack by official duty. We of the SRS and others want a fair law, which will not reward sects of all their actions in the past period. Let me give you a concrete example. It happened that 20 years ago there were no Mormons in Serbia, and then five of them show up, and then there's money being recruited by certain people, plotters, mental manipulations taking people, showing up, getting property and getting rich, and now we're rewarding them for what they've been doing over the past 20 years in this situation. It happened that the believers of the Serbian Orthodox Church were abducted by mental manipulation, not to say further what they were doing with money, it was not foreseen by the Criminal Code, and the question is what are the crimes they were doing in principle. I'll list only a few, although there are a lot of them, some of you mentioned who are possible, and that happens regularly. So, fake representation and people are calling for computer courses, foreign languages, martial arts clubs, and so on, and behind that are sects. We've had a case of public order and peace endangerment, escape from home, disappearances caused by the operation of some organizations, the absence of parental ageing, where certain adults enter sects and forget all their other obligations. It's one threat and there are so many, I could read a lot, but I'm not going to use that much time to quote only what are all the anomalies that appear. The question arises what should have been done if we wanted to come to a real and concrete long-term solution. You should've asked for help. I think you missed something here. Official reports were to be sought from various organisations. First, traditional churches and religious communities, to see the number of victims of sects, who requested their spiritual and psychological assistance, so as not to open the other entrances to Serbia. Then from medical services, especially from psychiatric institutions, from social services, it means how many victims of sects came to them for help. Because probably if you heard that information, you wouldn't be able to get into a situation where these confesions, as you call them, give the same rights as the religious communities, because they're still sects. Then from police services at all levels, in how many cases they intervened and made insights, in disrupting public order and peace, killings and suicides, crimes of financial fraud, etc. Also from military security and intelligence services, where they have data of murders, suicides, the spying of foreign sects towards the state and the military. Also from the Association of Citizens who provide assistance to the victims of the sects. You've got the Truth Citizens' Association and a few other associations that deal with it and documented all the information about it and they've arranged the charts, they're doing the interviews, so they could give you that information that you really wanted. Since you were invited to the EU and to the laws there, you could from the FECRIS association, the Federation of European Centres for Research and Monitoring of the sects, to try to get some advice. Now I'm going to get some information on this, which you could have gotten that you were actually just asking. The existence of sects and cults recorded from 1945 until today in our premises according to the MUP data looks like this: before 1945 there were only nine such organizations, six of them were formed from 1945 to 1980, between 80 and 2000, 24 other organisations, which belong to the sects and cult criteria; as of December 2000, it was estimated that there were more than 12,000 in Belgrade, more than 150,000 members of sects and cults in the Republic of Serbia. There are about 50 buildings in Belgrade's territory, and more than 400 in Serbia's territory. It has been estimated that nearly 200 foreign missionaries visit Belgrade annually on average. According to the SCG Army in mid-1996, the number of officially registered religious sects was 64, while in secret it was still around 250. Today, there are about 200 sects and their branches in Belgrade, and only 35 are registered. Based on more data, there are estimated to be some 385,000 members of different sects in the SCG. Out of this number, even a third of it is settled in Belgrade. Membership was officially registered in 64 and remained in 250 unregistered sects. This law is therefore somewhat, perhaps a harsh word, but an insult to 95 trusted people who are not considered members of these and such communities, i.e. cults that belong to traditional communities. Now, according to this law, we're going to make a bunch of these sects official. Otherwise I come from a town called Vršac and I don't know if you know it, but the city is famous and in the old Yugoslavia it was like a city that has a large number of such organizations, sects. There are currently some 17 sects in Vrsac that work. This law literally opens the door for them to do whatever they want. I can only list some, more for the public, maybe even if you haven't met. There are various sects, such as: Jehovah’s Witnesses, Baptists, Pentecostals, adventists, so on. Saturdays, nazare, yoga flyers, there are also these satanic in Vrsac, several satanic camps that have functioned, scientologists... (Krasic: G17 plus), G17 plus, Rotarians, means one very similar ground for the operation of all of this. Some of these sects are very financially powerful, such as Baptists, Jehovah’s Witnesses, haters, adventists. They're even very violent. You said earlier that they weren't violent, that they didn't know how you commented. They are a very violent organization that missionaries most in hospitals. They attack, conditionally speaking, means they attack patients spiritually, including doctors. Also, the Pentecostals. You all remember the case of David Naybor, a diplomat who was a secretary at the US Embassy, who had that affair in Osijek, worked in Pristina, worked in Belgrade and Thessaloniki, and then became a secretary at the US Embassy. And when he worked in Belgrade, they even bought a building in Belgrade, before all the wars, about a year before the SFRY war, across the street from the Red Cross, to welcome refugees. It seems a little too random. That's on purpose, though. One question is, where did these financially powerful money organizations come from? So how did they get them? So they showed up five, ten, 15 and 20 years ago and they're full of money. Also, such things, as I mentioned with the Red Cross and the arrival of refugees, work on Vrsac, work on the Negotin region, work on villages where there are a large number of national minorities, by refugee camps, means in all these cities. I've just mentioned Belgrade, but they're doing the same thing with us. As I said, in Vrsec even some people were killed by the facts of the same organizations. You know, we had a case of a young man who was 21 years old, who disappeared years ago, so he was found in Romania near the castles of the government of Cepesh or Dracula, as they like to call him, killed by a ritual killing. These are things that are all allowed now. So you didn't allow it, but some part of the people will probably interpret it that way. And now you're putting everything I've just told our traditional minority religious communities in the same chorus. So, the Rotarians, and the Masons and the Sects, now in this Serbia, it's all the same. So, they cooked the break-up of the SFRY, they were doing the kidnapping of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, and now somehow, just before the discussion of KIM's final status, a new injection of optimism appears again for such organisations, and we give them some legitimacy. You know, if that wasn't your intention, that's how the people would interpret it. Mr Tomislav Nikolic explained very nicely earlier that the people still expected the state to protect him. Now she'll have an excuse, so the state let her go. You know, that's how it's gonna get into the people. So I ask you not to let this law pass in this form, to correct what we have shown you so far in the amendments to the SRS. You should adopt them and come up nicely with a serious law, which will solve questions all in the same way, but only those recognised religious communities that serve the well-being of every society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25748	Thank you, Mr. Dejansky. Here you are, MP Jovan Todorovic, and National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and MP Dusan Prorokovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25749	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are some more notes regarding the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group on the draft law on churches and religious communities. And the debate so far has shown that Serbia has essentially nothing to be ashamed of in its legislative history and when it comes to both churches and religious communities and in general this religious area. At the beginning of today's debate, some speakers resented our minister in a way that puts SPC in the first place, and I think just the other way around. I think it's kind of shy and shy of talking about the role of the SPC and in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, as well as some MPs, who, to put it this way, are bussing that they are Orthodox, Christian, but they are somehow hidden in this law, as well as in the story of the SPC. Why do I even mention it? Well, for example, in Article 12 of this law, it is said that the SPC is recognised continuity with the legal subjectivity acquired on the basis of the 1836 principle of spiritual authority, and that is attitude 1. And point 2 is said that the SPC plays an inclusive historical, state-of-the-art and civilization role in the formation, preservation and development of the identity of the Serb people. I notice that no other church, apart from the SPC, which is normal for Serbs, has this state-of-the-art and historical role. I think that this parliament, both the government and all of us as citizens in Serbia, and I guess in Serbia most Serbs, if the exact fact is that 95% of citizens belong to a church and to a religious organisation, then it is certainly true that at least three-quarters of those who belong to a church, a religious organisation, are members of the SPC, are those who preach Orthodox Christianity. And that is why it bothers me to read, in the light of this law, and also in the discussion, that the basic objectives of this law are to comply with EU legislation. First, we have almost two hundred years of tradition in legislation, secondly, we are not lagging behind for the EU, thirdly, the Union is not religious, but primarily economic union. We as people, including Orthodox people, both Christians and all other citizens, have the tendency to enter Europe primarily because of these economic relations, and not because of the religious connection with Western Europe, especially Western Europe, because there are so many drastic differences that I am surprised that no one has talked about them today. Getting ready for this presentation, I had a need to consult Justin Popovic's work "About Spirit and Time". For viewers above all, as MPs probably know it, Justin Popovic is one of the greatest theologians in modern Serbian history and, besides Nikola Velimirovic, is certainly the greatest. Justin Popovic was just talking about these most important differences between Orthodox Christianity and this so-called Western European or human Christianity. In Christianity, the most important thing is Jesus Christ or man. We're in Europe thanks to some so-called. Modern trends have led us to have Christian humanism and that we have scolded God to the point where we brought him to be human. This alone man in previous history, for example in the last 100 years, has made all wars in the world and in Europe. The same man in Europe bombed Serbia during NATO aggression. That's the same man who could have said you should have bombed the Serbs. Who do you think said this? The late Pope Voytilla Clinton. "The Serbs are a people without law and without faith, it's a people of bandits and terrorists." That's what current French President Jacques Chirac said. "The war against Serbs is not just a military conflict, it is a battle between good and evil, between civilization and barbarism." He's a right-handed man, and this is said by a left-handed man, his name is Tony Blair. That's all the people that belong to the so-called. Christian humanism. Justin Popovic says that man is too made of clay, or mud, so if you take that spirit out of him then there's nothing out of that mud, and Europe looks more and more like a coffin full of clay that smells too much. Do we need such a union religious with Europe? As a goal, it bothers me in reason, although it is not said in the law, but we are also calling for such goals because there is a stronger goal than this, our need to bring into this area what is ours and what the citizens of Serbia need, not any adaptation to the European Union and their legislation. There's a member here who says there's no state religion. I agree with that, but I have to tell you that I would agree even if there was a state religion, and that would not be an exception because there are countries like Denmark, Sweden, Greece, and I would agree with that, because if Orthodox people are present among believers and church members with 75 or 80% then that would not be a problem. Provided that all other religious communities and churches have this kind of equality and freedom that the law foresees and implies. It is further said that one of the objectives of this law is that the state and church develop co-operation. I'll call on Justin Popovic again, somehow he's closest to me, writes nicely as a writer, it's easy to understand, although his theological thoughts are complicated and he's more of a philosopher, although he's graduated from Oxford, thanks to Nikolaj Velimirovic, and these same Western Christians haven't given him a degree, because he criticized it so-called. Western Christianity. He later received his doctorate, and since 1948 he lived in the Cells near Valjev, where he died in 1979, if I remember correctly that date, and otherwise Vranjanac was born in 1894. What does Justin Popovic say? "God comes first in all things, man in second." He goes on to say, "God leads, man is guided." And finally, "God works, man cooperates." If the church is a symbol of the body of Christ, along with the spirit, it represents for me this kind of deity, or God in which to believe as an institution, etc. The state is actually a man who will co-operate with the church and will cooperate as people who regulate their country in that area of the Republic of Serbia in the manner prescribed in this law. For me, it is an indisputable fact, unless we have the measure and the kind of caution that is needed primarily thanks to the discussions that have been conducted and to those so-called. The sects of Satanic and I don't know which other movements. I'm afraid you should be very careful in applying the provisions of this law. Because when you give someone a legal personality, when you give someone an unlimited right to have property, when you give someone unlimited visions and forms of acquisition of property, when you give someone the right to exercise economic activity and activity, when you give someone the right to educational activity, when you give someone the right to perform religious rituals in schools, barracks, kindergartens, there should be a lot of caution. When people of good faith, who want to encourage a church or a religious community, encourage, among other things, tax relief, including natural and legal persons, as said in this law, I sometimes wonder whether we are on the way of what is already in this Catholic or Protestant Europe more recently present and represents one of the key differences between this Catholic Europe and this learning and what we call an orthodox Orthodox church here. So there it is possible to redeem sin, and in Orthodoxy it is not. To forgive someone, God must forgive sins, at least in the last second of his life, to cross, and repent of his sins, and ask God to forgive them. There is enough to give a certain amount of money to be forgiven. We are going into one danger here that there will be people who have acquired, if you will, and dirty capital, so I am not equating all people, but also dirty capital, ready to invest as natural persons in certain churches and religious communities, but now I am talking about Orthodox people, with the idea of freeing them from taxes, I am saying that there is a priest or a priest there who makes it easier for them to perform certain services. Why am I talking about this? I'm going to say something again that Justin Popovic said, and I wasn't lazy enough to copy it. He says, for the church is no other than the miraculous human organism, in which God's and free action of man is blessed with cooperation, and all that is man's, except for sin, is blessed with all that is man's. It's gonna be hard to apply this law. We'll vote for the law because I want to trust Mr. Secretary. We will vote precisely for these reasons, but I would argue that teams of people, experts from various fields, rights, finance, economy and theology will have to work out how to register and how to repeal these approvals for the functioning of these organisations, i.e. religious communities and churches. I claim that religious communities, which are simply called, which are essentially sects, can be significant factors in the political plan. Take, say, local council elections. All the sects came from this so-called. Western Europe or America. With good funding and organisation, they can be organised as a group of citizens, but with certain political goals, and have a sect in the background. When there is a significant government factor in the local assembly and they can decide whether or not to adopt a budget for a certain year, then they can also identify certain funds for so-called. to help certain religious communities, even themselves. Now, I end up here, we mustn't go after Europe much, at least in the spirit sense. Someone here was talking about it. There's not much spiritual in Europe. It's all material. Nothing tells her, I'm a body, and I'm just a body. Justin Popovic, with a few sentences, has shown that not everything is in this matter. We sometimes forget about what we are because of this conformism, for the sake of a promised better life. We mustn't give up something that's a lasting value with our throats in strawberries, and I'm talking about the SPC in particular. Once again, the governmental role doesn't belong to anyone but the SPC. That's why I would favor it in this law, not shyly show it, because of course it deserves a lot more attention than it was given here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25750	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Dusan Prorokovic, and the People's Messenger Miroslav Nedeljkovic, if there is no replacement. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's only one colleague, gentlemen of the Parliament, above all, the most in the ranks of the SRS. I'm going to have to speak quickly because there's little time left for the parliamentary group to say everything we think about this law, and there's more colleagues to talk about. I will get right to the point and start with what the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said in the most part. But what I want to point out is the fact that the SRS, as the most numerous and most influential political party in Serbia, is I am convinced, soon to be the government in our country. We Serbian radicals, who represent the citizens of Serbia, we believe people, in the most part and most Orthodox religions, but there are members and other traditional religious communities, and what we point out not only in this law, but in the fact that the blind acceptance of everything that serves us by America and Western Europe from the five-octobaric coups and how it destructively affects our nation, the citizens of Serbia, and above all our national tissues. The law, especially because of the fact that the SPC suffered in the 20th century, that the areas in which the SPC, Western Serbian countries and the Serbian people, were being satanized by fascists and Ustashas. This continues, as you heard the other day when we talked about it, and Mr. Nikolic today, the cataclysm of over 30,000, also announced our church and presented this information with her statement. All that was happening to our people in Kosovo and Metohija was to be a reminder that when you make such a law, Mr. Minister, and this government, that you have this in mind, not to make statements that are not reckless, but indeed, today I have convinced myself, your attitude and your intimate vision, and the government that has given you to lead this resolution and to propose such a law, a path to legalising religious sects in our country through the adoption of such a law and all that is yet to reach us. You went one step further today. You used to hide all this under the form of confession, religious communities, etc., deliberately avoiding the word sect, and you forgot, Mr. Minister, because you said a while ago that there were no sects for the state, you stated to the Beta agency, and you explained that all churches and religious communities would be equal before the law. That's what you listed in Article 17 of the Law. Now I'm asking you, since time is short, and today you've brought out another amazing information, that it's for you, all these destructive sects, because every sect is satanic and pesudochrist, that's for sure, the new Protestant churches. You say that about the sects that have destroyed our society and that so far, acting so on the premises of our country, have taken many human lives. They helped subversive action, spy action and all that they did, especially during the time we defended our country under attack primarily by aggression by the Ustasha, and then during the aggression by the NATO Pact. You're saying today it's for you new Protestant churches, so the sects that were created 100, 200 or more years ago, and we can talk about it for hours. I'm just asking you, did you, as a minister in this government, get a report from the MUP or the social services that just, let's say, did adventists do, and what were the devastating results when it came to our young and older population? And will you, since you stated in article 17 that these are confessional communities, so I must remind you that he is a Baptist member, as you say, of the churches, or sects, which supported during the endehasia of Ustasha Pavelić's regime, and Bill Clinton, whether it was purposely or by chance 50 years later, one of those same appeared, which has done so much evil to our country and the people. Not to mention the co-operation and operation during World War II with the Gestapo in Vojvodina that all crimes have committed against our people. Do I have to remind you that a Pentecostal man named John Najbor, known for his spy affair with General Perisic, who is as the head of the CIA for the Balkans and as the one sent by the CIA to spread the Pentecostal sect in Serbia's premises, is also one of the designated enemies of the Serb people. Do I have to remind you of that too, and colleagues have talked a lot about, that the 1996 resolution on the prevention of the operation of sects in Western Europe has been passed, and that in Austria, Germany, Sweden, the Swiss sects, which you are now going to legalise with this law and which SPC and every minister of the SPC are determined to fight against, are banned and their activities sanctioned. Hence, it is no wonder that a time ago, a decade ago, in Russia, the Universal National Assembly was held in the Church of Christ of Saviors in Moscow, where there were over 2.5 thousand participants, under the patronate of Russia's entire Patriarch Alexei the Second and President of Russia, the Russian State Dume and the entire political summit, where they brought one declaration because of the fact that this little modified law under the Yeljcin regime, under the pressure of Western Europe, brought in 1997, and that the Russian state and the Russian Orthodox Church in the 20th century lived identical tortures as our church, faced today with the fact that who knows the number of sects that operate in that space. Then they well ordered the whole world and the righteous part of mankind, and to us who want to preserve both the nation and the faith, in the declaration they issued after so many outcast opinions and with the participation of the Church and the state summit, that faith in the homeland and the Holy One is no less valuable than human rights. That's what's in that declaration. You, under the notion of human rights and through such members of the law, want to legalize religious sects, which work uninterruptedly in many countries, and in these numbers are forbidden. I ask you, since the sect of Miras Dedejic is registered at the police station in Cetinje, by the sectarians and separatists of the Mil Djukanovic regime in Montenegro, and since it has started to operate in Vojvodina, there are colleagues from the AP area, I mean in some village or in Lovcenec, correct me if I am wrong, called "Krstaš", will you register Dedejic's sect because this law allows you to do so. What is it for you, since you say that in Articles 17 and other religious communities, Jehovah’s Witnesses, whose work is explicitly with all these other sects, for which I do not have time to count them now, forbidden in many Western European countries. Facultative application of individual members can, and not necessarily, what he spoke of today from the position of the Constitution of our country, i.e. respect for the Constitution and other positive existing legal norms, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, are obviously not binding for you and you did not pay attention to that. What is truly amazing is that, Mr. Minister, you have made your statements so far, and above all today's performance explicitly said, here, here, come, the law, and especially the Criminal Code of this country, which was adopted, means nothing to you. Because you said today that you can know and the state won't, that is, your ministry under Article 3 of this proposed law to register those who are dangerous to you. But the question is, how can you even think about registering, legalizing some religious communities that have no basis or tradition in our society? As you have already entered that form, as you will, under Article 3 of the Law, know that sects, as you say, are subject to restrictions when it comes to religious freedom, because I just said that this is the greatest threat that the Russian state is fighting today and this country in Western Europe, and that is why this declaration has been brought. You think they're going to tell you what they're capable of doing and what they're going to bring the citizens of Serbia and our children to do. I ask you, since the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, with the intervention of the SRS, has clearly defined in the introduction of religion that only traditional religious communities can do so, and such is the amendment that I have submitted to Article 17 of this bill, which has been defined, and with the SPC six more, is now possible, Mr Minister, that these sectarians appear to you and that they are asking you, and that they are doing everything under the form of human rights and freedoms, pressure on you and on the government, and you obviously do not need to be pressured, and to say, and to be allowed by a member of this 37th law, to organise religious teaching. These sects that are all, again I tell you, drawn in lamb skin, ready to act absolutely destructively in our society. They're already doing it. In the city where I live, in Kragujevac, besides registered numerous sects, they form some lectures, alleged lectures, rent a place owned by a state, such as the House of Unions in Kragujevac where they spread their sectarian ideas. That's what Mr. Dejansky was talking about. Now I am truly sorry to my fellow Members of the SRS, I have already spoken a lot, and I am going to talk about this by amendments, above all because of the fact that we as a people and as a society have suffered badly, as well as the SPC, which I spoke about, in the last century, that even now our people are suffering from the pogrom and persecution in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as our saints that have been burned down, destroyed by those whose actions you now wish to legalize. I've told you by name what politicians are, and I've listed some of them. This law, and if you do not accept amendments to the SRS, and how it will cause extremely serious disturbances in our society and is a great danger to the survival and future of generations living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25752	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. A five-minute break is needed, and then the MPs of the people will speak Dragoljub Kojicic, then the MP of the people, Miroslav Nedeljković, then the MP of the people Borko Ilic, then Milan Vesenović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25753	We can keep going. I thank all the MPs who expressed their concern for the chairman. The word has a folk ambassador, Dragoljub Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25754	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the one who edits our lives has arranged for this law to be on the agenda for a big or holy week. I think it's a good sign and it's some encouragement to me, one obligation more, an emotional obligation. I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here, and I am sorry that Ms. Natasa Jovanovic is not here, since she has shown great concern, like everyone else, really serious and gentle concern when it comes to this aspect of our society's life, I would say a religious aspect. However, unlike those who have shown this concern with too much weight, I think it is in the very essence of religion that it protects itself best. So, as we have already mentioned, during a long period of time there was an arrest from religion, at least in one open and public way. It turned out that it only took one small turning moment, somewhere in the early '90s, to show that people still go to churches or mosques, that they are once again filled with medres, seminary and the worship of students and students. As a phenomenon, faith itself is indestructible. And exactly what is the meaning and purpose of this law is that this issue is maximumly regulated, not asphyxiating freedom, on the contrary, organising freedom of religion, and what they create, humanely founded religious communities or religions have in their essence, in their being, is precisely the spread of a humanistic message, among other things. So, we always have to connect the church to morality, as the first institution to actually canonize moral relations in society. So moral beliefs, moral principles, moral maximums, they find their first statement in churches and religious communities. That's why, when we're talking about this law today, in fact, we're sorting out the church's relationship in public space. It is true that the relationship between the church and the state is the relationship of co-operation and that is good. It is also true that faith in its deepest foundation is something that belongs to the privacy and individual relationship of man. Here, however, this privacy is built against the state, not the public, because the being of the church is to spread the message. All churches are missionary. So this is where we organize a public space in which church communities will act. As I said one of the important social functions of the church is morale, I would say that it is the sense of salvation that, at least in our society, should not be overlooked, that it should not be neglected. We remember only one of the recent events, when we were bombed, so he honored us with his solidarity and his visits to Patriarch Moskovski and all of Russia, Alexei. You remember that huge number of people, where they were the officials of this country, where perhaps in this great world, there were people who were atheists, but that was one prophylactic moment, in which through this solidarity shown by the Russian Orthodox Church, our people also supported one of the difficult moments in his recent history, I would say even in his everyday existence, because these days were bombs falling. I don't think even that day they took a break in the bombing of our country and our people. Also, there is no need to overlook the fact that the SPC, as the church of the majority people, has played a major role in preserving its national identity, and today we also remember the governmental role of the SPC. Of course, the state is separate from religion. I would say that even in the intensities of a humanist-based church, it was the intention to separate state power from religious consciousness, but that does not mean that religious consciousness should not be present in this public space, including as a reminder of the magnificent role of church and religion in building a modern Serbian European state. That doesn't even have anything to do with the confessional definition. I think that's what everyone appreciates, and those who aren't members of the SPC. When it comes to regulating the position of the church in public space, there is a small concern here when it comes to universal laws, primarily constitutional and legal systems and autonomy that every church community in our country can have. It's about what lawyers call subsumed law. This means that church law is, of course, under civil law, under what the Constitution regulates and regulates other laws and that, normally, no priestly person, no member of the church can commit an unpunished offense when it comes to civil law. This is about the church having autonomy to regulate its life according to its principles, according to its values, within itself, and that it cannot in any way be contrary to or contrary to the general legislation of a country. Finally, what I'd like to draw attention to, that's one thought that was born about 50 years ago, said by an English theoryist of civilization, Arnold Toneby. He said -- religions are the backbone of civilization. So, simply, the largest number of people believe, the largest number of people in the world, and of course with us, the most significant part of their identity is associated with religious belongings. In this area, unfortunately, during history, religious abuse has occurred over the centuries, and perhaps during the millenniums, it has led to the antagonision of churches and the antagonision of religions, or members of churches. I think it's this law in this democratic, free minded aspect, and I think it was the basic intensities of the legislator, that it's just going to be that in this space finally the church community, the great traditional churches and religions, come out of that modus where they were antagonist and start working together. So, first of all, that they have equal treatment in public space, and then in relation to the state, which still regulates the whole of social relations, they show that they are constructive factors to improve our entire country and all relations in this society. Since Mr. Minister has come, I would simply repeat the thought from the beginning, which is that it is extremely important to show concern, when I say concern, I really mean in the deepest philosophical sense of that word, to show concern for this aspect of our society's life. If I may commend the minister, I very much liked enthusiasm and optimism in the way he defended this law in his pledoa.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25755	National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, followed by MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25756	Dear People's MPs, I think you share my impression that the most powerful impression in this assembly has left the first debater of the MPs, which is Ljiljana Nestorovic's MP, because of his truly militant, passionate performance. She didn't speak against the law, she spoke against the faith, against the church. Of course, we all know that it formally belongs to a minor, marginal political party, probably most of whom don't even know what it's called, but since we all know that she's the spokesman for that so-called. the NGO sector, including some political parties one of which is not present here, then we know that this speech of hers must be taken seriously. I think the minister is aware that this law may have touched the hornet's nest. I don't mean from the very text of the laws of some of his solutions, because we in the SRS are criticizing him, but I think that in the making of this law she was doing autocensorship for those who worked on that text, and that may be why they deserve much more of our caution and restraint when it comes to criticism that are justified. Everyone in the SRS pointed to the main problem, not this law, but the area regulated by this law, which is the existence of religious sects. It's such a big problem that one law, no matter how radical, uncompromised, the real problem can't be solved. But I feel the need to only kind of replicate the minister, who tried to calm us down. I'm about to paraphrase him. Don't worry, if a religious organization doesn't deserve to be called a religious organization, it won't even be registered. However, Mr. Minister, it is not a problem whether an organization will be registered or not, the problem is its functioning. It does not have to be registered or tried to register, it can register as an NGO. You know that this concept covers everything possible and that it works uninterruptedly. Then we get out of the field of the Ministry of Faith's intelligence, because it's not the Ministry of Faith that's supposed to pursue that kind of action, but that's why the entire state apparatus has to be put into operation. Of course, it must be amended, or amended, by the Criminal Code, to write down those appropriate crimes, which we do not have time to talk about now, because we do not have that kind of time. We know all the sect methods used and that then the Ministry of Justice, and so on, put themselves in the position of protecting the elemental interests of the individual, the family, the people, the state. This doesn't exhaust what we wanted to say. I decided to read you two or three points from the European Parliament Resolution on sects from 1996, so I'll tell you why. Reiterating its adherence to the basic principles of democratic law, etc., point 4, calls on Member States' governments not to automatically grant religious organisation status, and in cases where there are sects involved in illegal or criminal activities and to rule on the possibility of depriveing them of the same status of the community, which guarantees tax relief and certain legal protection. Point 5 calls on Member States to step up mutual exchanges of information in order to gather together data. Point 7 calls on the European Commission and the Member States to be extremely careful, in order to prevent organisations of the occult type from receiving Union assistance. Why did I read this? I am speaking to the Minister, that you are no longer intimidated by these NGOs, that this text of the law, which is quite soft, is against some of the principles of the EU, the Council of Europe and so on. The European countries are fighting the sects. Of course, it's hard to contain them. The only effective thing that could suppress religious sects, you know, is to instill faith in a young man. If his faith is implanted in time, he will be protected from sects. How to Inculcate His Faith? One way is the system of education, education programs. The introduction of religion is very little he can do. Sometimes there's a side effect. But in educational programs, especially natural sciences, give a chance to a religious perspective. This may seem too unusual, perhaps radical, strange, but there is strong evidence in the field of physics of religion, in the area of astronomy of what religion should say, in the field of biological science religion has strong evidence of God's existence. This skepticism in which we bathe is: I will believe in God, but if anyone gives me proof that God exists. But there is no evidence that God exists, no one has seen him, but there are acts of God everywhere in us and around us, and science provides the strongest evidence that this world, the living world, is created by God's wisdom. If allowed, if space is opened in the natural sciences for the religious interpretation of natural laws, the phenomenon, we will most easily contain and overcome this danger.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25757	The People's MP Borko Ilic has the word, followed by MP Milan Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, Minister of Faith, Mr Radulovic, has very well characterized this law in one word -- this law is systematic. For us at the DSS, this law is of paramount importance. And of greater importance, it is for our society in general. And it is an obligation for the state to adopt this law to allow all those believing people, whom it definitely has in Serbia, to know clearly what the state's relationship is on the one hand and the churches on the other. And the first task of this law is to establish a clear relationship between the church and the state, of course, in line with the democratic standards and principles governing modern European societies. This co-operation is the provision of state hands to churches and religious communities. If the state gives its hand to the church and to the religious community, it gives its hand to its citizen, because the church and the religious community make up believing people and this country is just taking care of people who believe. And this law will allow that what has not been regulated by law so far, and it has favoured the functioning and emergence of religious sects, to be regulated by law and to prevent the further functioning of the sects that have been discussed here so much. On the other hand, out of the 100 people you'll meet when you leave this National Assembly, 95 says it belongs to one of the religious communities or churches. Therefore, it is clear that the church is one of the basic pillars of society and therefore the second task of this law is to establish a place, clearly to establish the place of the church in society. And all those who are full of the mouth of a civilian, i.e. civil society should know that it is the church and religious communities in all modern European societies and societies to which they are called and is one of the basic factors of this very civil society. Because the contribution the church has in the development of society and the impact on social life is immeasurable. And the third task of this law, which is definitely waiting for us, is that our legislation and in this area is in line with EU legislation, because of the 10 people you're going to ask on the street, what is the primary goal of state and political actors in the next 10 years, is just the entry of Serbia-Montenegro into the European Union, and the European Union has clear criteria in this area of social life. Here by the first speaker, i.e. The speakers talked a lot about the law jeopardizing the principle of individual freedom, and this law is now allowing, i.e. It establishes and respects the Constitution-guaranteed principle of individual freedom. Because no one in this law is going to force a church or into a religious community, but will clearly state rights and obligations, on the one hand, which are the rights and obligations of churches and religious communities, on the other hand. The accepted principle, and what we believe in the DSS to be one of the basic pillars of our programme and the development of Serbian society in the future, is the principle of respect for individual freedom, the Constitution and the law that apply in this country. As I was saying, the church as one of the most significant social factors deserves to get a place in society that was taken from it after 1945. It is quite logical that the churches that are traditional in these areas, which are numbered in this law, and the religious communities that are traditional in these areas, with their influences in the historical heritage of our citizens, in the cultural heritage of our citizens, will, at the very least, in the moral principles that this society accepts, take precedence over some churches that are not traditional in these areas. It's like a sport to you, it's clear that they can't treat the Red Star, Vojvodina and Partizan as Hiduk from Lyon, because they're sports societies that have a huge impact on society, and Hyduk with Lyon doesn't have any. Therefore, the SPC deserves a special place in this law in all of this. Now, many would wonder why exactly the SPC, which stands out in relation to others, such as traditional churches or religious communities or other confessional communities mentioned in the law. I'd single out an innumerable number of reasons three basics. First, the SPC made an immeasurable contribution to the construction of both medieval Serbian states and the modern Serbian state that originated after the 1804 and 1915 revolution and could be freely said to have been built into the foundations of today's modern Serbian states. Secondly, the role of the SPC in both physical and physical preservation of the Serbian people and in preserving our identity in the past centuries is immeasurable. And thirdly, according to all the surveys, the SPC in Serbia's public opinion is the most influential and most trusted institution. And because of all this, she deserves to have a special place in this law. Also, on the other hand, the other churches and religious communities that have traditions in these areas, such as the Roman Catholic Church, the Protestant religious community, the Islamic religious community, the Jewish religious community, deserve to be singled out because they formed a society in which we live today and we belong. In a part relating to property and financing, the law clearly regulates the right to the financial independence of churches and religious communities, which is very important, because just if you don't have financial independence you can get into a situation that those who are financially powerful can act on the influence of churches and religious communities, and not only those institutions that count on sects, but also the impact on some traditional churches, unless they are able to have financial independence. Also, what matters is that the right to return of property is regulated, i.e. the right to give local communities to use confiscated church property, if of course they consider it to be in line with the needs of local communities and local environments in which they live. What is very important, and concerns the regulation of the social rights of workers, is also that the social rights of priests will guarantee the safety of these people, who, by their actions, influence the general moral well-being of this society and this state. I would also refer to Article 32, which regulates tax incentives, and what is most important in this article is that it encourages clericalism. Kitorship, on the one hand, has also been woven into the foundations of modern Serbian history and has contributed greatly in previous times of development both the educational and cultural system in Serbia. And by the time I got to the education that was mentioned so many times here, so the first schools in Serbia were the establishment of churches and monasteries. The church has made the greatest contribution in describing the Serbian people in both the Middle Ages and the 19th and 20th centuries, and today the church has its work influencing the development of the educational system and the level of education of each individual in this society. Secondly, every competition is good, and so is competition in the education system. If we have competition, and this will boost competition in the education system, when it is allowed for churches and religious communities to set up educational systems institutions, from preschool to higher education levels, it will now contribute to the development of quality education in Serbia. Because of all the things that I have stated in my presentation, I would call on all the MPs to, for the sake of those 95 people you meet on the street, who are believing people and belong to one of the churches and religious communities that work in these areas, vote for this law, and thus we together regulate a very important area, important for society in general, both for the state and for every citizen in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25759	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. National MP Milan Veselinovic has a word, so National MP Milos Aligrudic, then MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25760	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have shown the lack of this law during this principle debate. In particular, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, analysing this law, a member per member, has shown that this law should appear to be acceptable to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Normally, this is one sensitive matter, and it is important that 95% of citizens of Serbia and this matter, this sensitive matter, should have devoted much more time and reached consensus first of all among traditional churches, in order for this law to really get its true face and significance. We have read in the press these days that Synod SPC has objections to this bill, which means that even with the SPC no agreement has been reached that this law meets their needs. Today we heard an exhaustive statement by the minister, saying among other things that these laws are passed when some major social and state changes occur. I don't know what changes in my mind, maybe these five-octobaric changes in your quasirevoluntary that you've done, so it's probably as if our society has reached this degree of development that now there's a possibility of passing one of these laws. That's why I think this law is more populist than a project that will meet all needs, above all interested traditional churches. In particular, the question that is being raised here today is the registration of various religious communities that have been acting negatively in this space for the last 20 and over years. We know that these religious organizations, along with NGOs, have brought much evil to the Serbian people in the past. We know that in the Balkan wind, these religious wars and conflicts throughout history have pervaded, so we think that this law is very liberal and has given a lot of opportunities and privileges for such religious organisations to register. I will remain here in article 20, describing the process of registering religious organizations. "For the registration of other religious organisations in the Registry of the Ministry, an application shall be submitted: 1) the name of a religious organisation; 2) the address of the seat of a religious organisation; 3) the name, last name and quality of the person authorised to represent and represent a religious organisation. Religious organisations report: 1) a decision to establish a religious organisation with names, last names, identification documents and signatures of the founders of at least 0.001% of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are resident in the Republic of Serbia according to the latest official census or foreign nationals with permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. "This similar member exists there in the registration of civil associations or sports organisations. What does it mean if we say that enough signatures are 0.001% of those who have residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and so such an organisation can be registered. It's really something that legalizes sects, legalizes NGOs and sects, according to a member that you provided in terms of the registration of such religious communities. The minister says the state has the right to choose which religious organisation it will co-operate with. Isn't that discriminatory? He says he has the right to co-operate with a religious organisation that is registered, although according to some requirements that go by some religious communities and NGOs, they seek even greater rights than those that register. What does the state mean to choose who he'll work with and who he won't. It's something that's not defined, it's not precise and concise, what the state wants, what religious organizations that are in the interest of the state to co-operate with them, whether they're traditional religious organizations or perhaps these confesions that appear for registration. Further, it is said, holding religious rituals in state institutions, schools, hospitals, etc. You know that we are a multinational community, that more nations live in Serbia, more religious confesions. Not to mention the introduction of Bosniak language and other things, which created major problems in these multinational environments. And only now, if we allow it in schools, without certain precision, holding religious rituals, what's going to happen there. Normally, chaos will happen, religious divisions will happen, until hatred. Since my colleagues in the SRS are anxious to speak, I would like to call on the Minister of Faith to accept the amendments to the SRS, so as not to improve this legislative proposal as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25761	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, MP to the people, Djordje Mamula, MP to the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25762	Finally, the law on churches and religious communities. In 1977, a regulation was passed in the then Socialist Republic of Serbia with this theme, in 93, thank God, put out of force, because how he regulated this area better if he hadn't even regulated it. I wouldn't repeat everything that's been heard here today, but I would just like to point out some things, to single them out specifically, which I believe are in the sea of what's been said here today, and they should be pointed out first as something very important when it comes to this law. First of all, we need to start with the fact that this law is passed as a secular state, a global state, and it does not bring it as a country in which the confesions rule. The right to religion is one of the human rights, which is first and foremost drawn from the UN Charter of Freedoms and Rights of Men and Citizens, then operationalized in a very important European document of the Council of Europe, is the European Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Religious Freedoms, then found a place in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's interesting is that this very important human right, which is particularly stated in the constitutions of all states, modern states, and so in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the future constitution that we bring, will be guaranteed as a very important and particularly prominent right, it is important that it belongs to the Corps of those rights which apparently seek a certain kind of legal work, not just constitutional principles. So far, the position of churches, religious communities, as a guarantee of the achievement of this human right, which is seen and as a collective right, must be considered, but in the end it can also be understood on individual human rights, the right to believe. This right must find its protection in the laws of the State and is not enough to remain only on the constitutional declaration. In practice, in 93, we had the situation that this right was carried only by a constitutional declaration, and that the authorities of the Serbian state tried to realise the exercise of this right by different moves, especially by governments that ruled as executives for the state of Serbia in the past period, so this is the first time now, which is a significant thing, that this topic is regulated by law. What is regulated by law here? Our theme isn't church dogma, it's not religious teachings. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a couple of excellant secular bodies, does not deal with religious teachings. It is not good at all when we are having a discussion, with whatever motives and best possible, at that level, or at that level to talk about it as a religious question. Religious issues have been left right for religious communities themselves, to deal with them autonomously, to make their views known and to try to find their followers and convince people of the correctness of their beliefs. We're an organ of the secular state. Our task is to respect the constitutional basis and to enable people to express themselves in this very important field of social life and understanding of social events and phenomena. This is simply because this tradition requires us, on the one hand, and it is not mentioned for free word traditionally in the bill, and it is not mentioned in other European laws that regulate this matter, and in the laws of countries in our immediate environment, which came from former Yugoslavia, such as Slovenia, Croatia, such as other countries, today's EU member states. I repeat, this is about protecting those who believe and those institutions through which their personal relationship to religion is to organise. Thus, it protects certain collective rights. Of course, we went to a system of positive numbering of those forms of organization of religious communities in this bill, which, above all, comes from the conjecture of traditional religious communities, or churches, because it's an unbreakable part of history and, statistically speaking, it's a huge number of people who want to believe and believe and live in our country. We've come from the fact that in our country there are also those who have a different confiscation, so that's what's said here. Of course, the list is not exhaustive, for the simple reason that it can be imagined and should be looked at, because this is a matter of protecting the human rights corpus, not a dogmatic question, so it is possible to register other religious organizations and churches, if they meet the conditions. The majority apparently took this subject seriously and discussed and discussed it with extreme argument, with some speakers showing a certain misunderstanding. So what are the reasons and what is what could not be accepted in society. I love most when I discuss the law to read it first and read it carefully and with the understanding of all the members of the law that are proposed. So anyone who carefully reads, say Article 3 of this Law, will see that freedom of religion or religious belief can only be subject to restrictions prescribed by the Constitution, it is not subject to interpretations, laws, and does not only think about this law, and ratified international documents, which are necessary to modern society, in the society in which we live, in order to protect ourselves. Now certain standards are mentioned which are very easy to interpret, public security, public order, morals, I admit that this is a broader category and should be widely interpreted, precisely for the protection of human rights and freedoms and the protection of the freedoms and rights of others, as we know that no right can be used by jeopardising human rights and freedoms. Then, of course, religious freedom must not be used by jeopardizing the right to life, it is written in Article 3, the right to health, the rights of children, the right to personal and family integrity and the right to property, nor by provoking and encouraging religious, national and racial intolerance. When you look at these provisions, they are not general and broad at all, they are extremely specific, so to the authority that registers the religious community tomorrow under this law, in a way gives strict instructions on what can be registered and what cannot be registered as a religious community. Of course, that's what this regulation is about. He doesn't deal with dogmatic teachings or any comparisons. I'm going to give you an example that I've almost heard, which, if you think about it, takes the whole story completely astray. Someone who lives in Germany almost told me that in 2005, the US Congress provided a special commission that did this with a very negative report on the state of human rights in Germany, and related to the achievement of religious freedoms, for the simple reason that in the system of positive numbering of those religious communities that Germany recognises, did not specify scientologists. If that's the way to look at it or talk about this problem, we've gone to another extreme. We went into debate about whether it's true that the scientological religious community or sect, as those who belong to traditional religious communities call it, is destroying what is the basis of belief in Christianity, which is dogma as such. Whether she seems directly to the essence of the dogma or not. Imagine if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had been having a debate on the subject for hours, whether scientologists were intruding and destroying the essence of dogmatic learning. So it's not our subject and subject of this law. The object of this law is to allow people to organise themselves in the way that it is foreseen here, to know what the state's relationship with religious communities and churches is, to establish a rule that is not only a declaration, but must be taken seriously, that there is no state religion, but that religions and major confesions in Serbia are traditional and others that appear as emerging forms that are respectable, something that is important for social life in Serbia and what the state must respect. Only in this way can we find a full basis for protecting the constitutional category that the Constitution protects. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is to adopt this law, and this will be a major step forward in the overall protection of human rights in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25763	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, so MP Djordje Mamula, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25764	The draft law on churches and religious communities today is on the agenda to show Europe and the world that Serbia is tolerated, to respect religious freedom, to protect churches and religious communities, to protect temples, regardless of religion, regardless of learning, regardless of religion. Can we, by law, show Europe and the world, especially the EU, that we are tolerated and that we respect religious freedoms and rights? No, I don't. Gentlemen, no bill can regulate it, it regulates life, citizens, believers. For example, Kosovo Mitrovica, there is a Muslim cemetery in the Serbian part, and in the Shiptar part there is a Serbian cemetery. Come, Mr. Minister, to see what a Muslim cemetery is like, where no branch is missing if any trees are planted in that Muslim cemetery, and go see what a Serb cemetery is like. That tells you exactly what SPC believers are like, because in the northern part they're the only ones left to live, that's the result that shows the difference between different religious communities. In Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Minister, today the government is in the hands of the UN, in the hands of KFOR and UNMIK, is this Europe and the world? It's not. Whether they respect and defend the Serbs and the Serbian Orthodox Church, no. Moreover, they are just silent observers, and sometimes participants in destroying everything that is Serbian and what belongs to the SPC. To remind you of the bombing, the destruction of Serbs, Serbian property and Serbian heritage by the Cypriot separatists and terrorists, with the silent observation of KFOR and UNMIK troops, who have received the freedom to provide peace, not hell for all who live in Kosovo and Metohija. Let me remind you of March 17th, when 35 churches and monasteries were destroyed and destroyed, and I'm not talking about Serb cemeteries that have been systematically destroyed for seven years. Would KFOR and UNMIK allow someone to tear down churches, cathedrals in France, Germany and Italy; they would not allow it, they would also defend it with their lives. Despite the unprecedented googogue, terror, Serbs survived, and the SPC survived. Why? Because there were Serbs and our priests, monks and monks ready to live and preserve their property, their churches and their monasteries, because the SPC shared the fate of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Minister, when writing this bill on churches and religious communities, has the church been consulted and what opinion on this bill is, I am particularly interested in the position of the SPC. We read, they have objections, they're not satisfied. All this had to be brought into line and there were no objections to the SPC. Secondly, why do traditional churches and traditional religious communities not separate from sects? Even some have found a place in this bill. Each state has an obligation to enable religious freedoms and rights, as well as to prevent the influence and penetration of sects on its territory. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last few weeks I've visited Serbian villages, Serb enclaves, Suvi Dol, Gojbulju, Grace, Gorazdevac. My goal was to visit them, to bring each child of preschool and school age a modest gift, and it included in these four Serb villages about 330 boys and girls. Children and parents thanked but stressed that they needed much greater care especially in Serbia and that they were left with only hope in the SPC and the SRS, as all others were forgotten in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25765	National MP Djordje Mamula, then MP Dragoljub Vojnović, then MP Boris Karaicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25766	We discuss the circumstances of this bill after Easter, which was celebrated on a new calendar and before Easter to be celebrated on the old calendar. This bill should be supported and I think the government should be congratulated on such a good bill. I expected this proposal to come much earlier on the agenda, as the 2001 Serbian government adopted a Regulation on the organisation and exercise of religious teaching and teaching of an alternative class in primary and secondary school, on 24 July 2001, signed by Deputy Prime Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. It's very important to me, since I didn't expect it from that government. However, she decided to supplement her programme during the mandate, so she passed a regulation on religious continuation. In the government, Dr. Gašo Knezevic, the minister of education from the GSS, sat in the chair of Dosite Obradovic, thanks to the government and the GSS in Serbia, a religious was introduced. Of course, it was a pleasant surprise to me, since it was, at least part of those ministers, according to their commitment and view of the world, the people who experienced God as a competition, and the biggest one, so this was a really pleasant surprise for me, so I expected in those days to pass also a bill on church and religious communities. Of course, it must be said that the regulation was made according to the government's ideas to correct the impression that the government had made before traditional churches, especially before the Serbian Patriarchy, because of the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, but the church did not accept the trade and believed that children in primary and secondary schools were entitled to religious education. In Christian civilization, the civil state is governed by the idea of civil religion, which consists of respecting God, faith in his righteousness, which rewards good deeds and virtues and punishes sin and vice. This concept accepts that religion is a very important dimension of man’s personality, and it comes from the fact that man is the greatest proof that God exists. When it comes to this concept, and this law is also adopted, it takes particular care to express religious tolerance and respect for religious tradition, national and cultural identity. The constitutional basis for this bill is also the Constitution of Serbia, and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, as well as the Constitutional Charter, and it is a very important framework. In the bill of law, it is very important to see that they differ worldly from spiritual issues and that this is one of the essential elements of Christian faith, so that those who have criticised this proposed law should once again pay attention to certain provisions and the spirit of the law. Serbia's constitution, although adopted in 1990, provides a very important framework for this bill, because in the Constitution of Serbia, in provisions relating to freedom of religion, religion is no longer a matter of personal choice, while earlier it has been pointed out that it is a matter of personal choice. While other views of the world and beliefs, for example existentialistically, did not say in the Constitution that it was a matter of personal choice, so the 1990 Constitution was already a big step and really a good framework for this proposal of the laws on churches and religious communities. In addition, the Serbian Constitution in those provisions on religious freedoms does not say that religion is a private matter, which means it does not dispute that religion is a public matter. So, aphirms the church as a public community, which is very important and that provision, in my deep confidence, is also based on this proposed law. It should be said, of course, that religious beliefs and faith would be fully protected, however, it is necessary that in the new constitution of Serbia, however, when it comes to banning the challenge of racial, national and religious hatred, enter and the provision that it is forbidden to spread and atheistic hatred, because I do not think that it is enough to say under these human rights that other hatred and intolerance are not allowed, but that other hatreds should also be specified, therefore, that atheistic hatred and impatience, or political hatred and intolerance or ideologicalism are not allowed. This should be predicted, not placed as second-rate in one undefined tone and dictionary. A good constitution should prevent the arbitrary involvement of the state in the free confession of faith, but it should contain a provision that any use of faith for political purposes is forbidden. I believe that the proposed solutions are very good and that those who come from the possibility of abuse must know that even the best solutions can be misused, if there is a mood for abuse. The bottom line is, therefore, that such morality and commitment in society are created to abuse all areas to a minimum extent and a framework. In particular, I would draw attention to the first three members, where it is very clear that everyone, in accordance with the Constitution, is guaranteed the right to freedom of conscience and religion, that discrimination is forbidden, and when it comes to the restriction of religious freedom, I think that Article 3 of Article 1 is very important which is stressed to protect the freedoms and rights of others. Dale, this Article 3 contains directly prescribed provisions of the Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. I therefore believe that this bill should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25767	The word has been made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic, and then by MP Boris Karaic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25768	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I have a little nervousness, and here I am two years later again after this pay phone, and treated like the last recruit.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25769	Mr. Vojnovic, I give you your time, you deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25770	What I was about to say is this: here's one very important law. This is where they say it's one populist law. But I'm saying it's very important. Why? When we talk about other laws that regulate Serbia's economic and political sphere, we immediately refer to the geopolitical and geostrategic position of Serbia, the corridors, etc., and here we are talking about the spiritual sphere, and no one is talking about Serbia being surrounded by two civilizations: one Byzantine, which involves spirit, lordship and subtlety; others, Roman Catholic, which implies organisation and strict hierarchy. This people who lived in these places, although not belonging to the modern historical senses of the ancient peoples, immediately after receiving the autocephalics of their church, built temples that are now a world cultural heritage. The people in their democratic state now want to regulate a form of life, a form of conscience and a form of religious relations, in a democratic way. It is his indigenous and full right, because, according to the minister, the wealth of suicide is the quality of Europe, and Serbia is already that. Some who have spoken and attacked this law here, and mostly the part that speaks of worship and the part that speaks of schooling, I have the impression that some things don't understand. They say it doesn't have to be true that Serbs have received their own Christian glory out of spite. Why? Because they did not want to give up their house god when they received Christianity, but they wanted to keep that god of theirs, and later the church canonized it. The church says that our Christian glory was created for every family at the time of receiving Christianity. It doesn't matter. What matters is what is important to the Serbian people, although St. Nicholas says he is not much of a worshiper, yes, having his own cross glory, the temple is passed on to homes. That's why advocates who say the church can't go to institutions seem to understand things. It's strange here to attack from different positions of this law. Some say it is not strict enough and has a small solution to miss what is called sects, and others say it is too liberal. In my opinion, this law is quite in line with Serbia's modern life, its intensities to enter European integration. In order not to owe, I think for this law, in any case, it is necessary to vote, and that it is sufficiently exaggerated so as not to take up any more of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-17-0.u25771	Mr. Vojnovic, thank you. You've left enough time for Mr. Karaicic, but he's given up. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, Mr Zoran Cirkovic and Mr Miloljub Albianic, who have another 10 minutes left? No, I don't. ) Another who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue to search the 2nd item of the agenda in principle, and since it has to be 24.00 hours to discuss the amendments, most likely on Wednesday, at 10.00 hours, the debate will begin in detail on this law. Thank you so much for your responsibility. Good night.
