ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 94 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 78 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least one third of the MPs are not present, which is why, in accordance with Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session by one hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a one-hour break, and in order to obtain conditions for the start of today's session, 140 MPs are present on official record. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 93 MPs are present in the O.R. and that there are conditions for today's work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Veroljub Stevanovic. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search of the draft law on the agenda of this session, we are moving to search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the BUJETS SYSTEM (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Rajko Baralić, Zoran Krasic, Veroljub Arsic, Vjerica Radet, Nemanja Sarović, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Dragan Todorovic, Branislav Rankić, Petar Jojic, Sreto Perić, Paja Momčev, Živan Vladimirović, Milovan Radovanović, Bozidar Koprivica, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Mita Avramov, Miljko Čević, Milorad Mirčić, Vojislav Milajić, Dragan Čolić and Natas Jovanovic, as well as the amendment of the Government. You have also received an amendment based on Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. You received a report from the Finance Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the same time, I'm asking my fellow photographers, as the session begins, to allow it to work. I've seen you, don't worry, just to let our colleagues... Of course, both photographers and cameramen, we have to follow the rules. One notice, before we begin, I'd like to introduce you, since you may not have paid attention, it's only now divided. Therefore, in the report of the Committee on Finance, No 402673/06, of 25 September 2006, on the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, with amendments, the technical error was left out at the end of point 3, which reads: "The representative at the Committee's session did not accept the amendments referred to in point 3". Please respect this correction if you haven't paid attention. We're going back to work now. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29288	Mr. Markovic, I don't know what's bothering you with the photojournalists. And these new rules and suggestions for amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, which you called for tomorrow, are also something that we will discuss and what you personally bear responsibility for. There'll be time to talk about it. As for today's session, I'm not sure you've given public and MPs the right information. According to the Rules of Procedure, there are no conditions for us to continue working and to consider amendments to the draft law on the budgetary system because the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not deliver a report in writing to the MPs, or an opinion on the SRS MPs submitted. Not only that, they're all gone. Where'd they go? Well, it's lucky everyone's gone, you know, already today and that... Denied? Mr. Albianic, what's being turned away from your head today, I really don't know. I know that the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS have a very clear form, although it bothers you, it is because, fellow Members, the Law on the Budgetary System, or amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, does not correspond to the citizens of Serbia and those to which the law applies. We believe that these changes can't contribute to the overall situation in the country being improved, as he tried to convince us the minister, who came out the day before yesterday, slipped on this door here and hasn't come back since. So we don't have a report from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. The first amendment to Article 1 was submitted by counterpart Zoran Krasic, and he will make it clear through the argument, in an expert way, to explain why we will not accept amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. We need to know what the government of Vojislav Kostunica thinks about it. Or maybe Dinkic won't write any more reports because he's approaching October 1st, so the bill, while he writes a government report on whether the amendments are acceptable or not... You see, he's got a spokesman's hall, he says, none of them are accepted. How can a MP from the G17 know that without knowing anyone else? Do you know of the DSS whether Kostunica's Government accepted the Serbian Radical Party amendment? It's unserious, and you can't say that there are working conditions, and they're not, and you're disturbed by photographers who don't bother anyone. Therefore, until we receive a report or a personal report, which is most desirable of all, the minister, who had no answer to any question, nor a counterargument to our arguments that these laws are not good and that the budgetary rebalancing was not done for the benefit of Serbian citizens, it is pointless to continue to work. This condition will last like this while this cameraman from RTS, who paints the state of the room in this wide shot for five or ten minutes. After that, I won't see you either; maybe about two hours, when it's break or afternoon. Then who do we convince that the amendments are excellent? The people, of course, who know it, and you know, in voting day, you need to think about it a little bit and press a key that means that the citizens are better off, not just stalling you and another push you more, two push the wolf from the elections that are inevitable. You know that this is your end and your fall, because you haven't done well, because these laws and such behaviours by the minister, as well as the president of the Assembly, are in favour of our arguments that this government is not working for the benefit of Serbian citizens and that the Serbian Radical Party is the only serious political force in the country, which can essentially change things, for the benefit of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29289	I thank Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, I will tell you that article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia regulate an emergency procedure, such as today, that an emergency procedure is not necessarily the opinion of the government and the opinion of the committee, or a report by the board is not necessary for discussion today. We can discuss it without it. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Just a moment, I would like to inform you that in the report of the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia, issue 400-2673/06, of 25 September 2006, the technical error was substantiated when considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, with amendments, and at the end of point 3, the text was left out, which reads: "The representative at the Committee's session did not accept the amendments mentioned in point 3." That's all I wanted to say, and now go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29290	Starting with the assumption that the government gave a negative opinion on the bill, I would remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, about this time in 2003, the Serbian Radical Party launched a procedure to bring down the government of Zoran Zivkovic. We were doing well then. The government fell on its own in October. Here, these days we are doing this job in the second stage, which is what we are doing to bring down the DOS government in Serbia. And this government will also fall, regardless of these gymnastics, whether it will be a rebalancing, whether someone will be elected minister without a choice, and other secondary actions and activities of the government, such as those that took place yesterday. Yesterday, the finance minister (probably and now he's holding some kind of promotion) said -- I know you're having a hard time living in Leskovac, and there's poverty, but vote for the G17 Plus coalition -- the Democratic Party, which means you're voting against Cvetanovic, and then you'll get much better, because his dad's from the south. While here they're reportedly leaving the government on October 1st. So everything is allowed and anything can be fooled by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever sees Mr Dinkic, you too, ladies, if you see him, let him explain that he is a member of the 1st. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System has changed slightly compared to that Member of the Bill establishing a new criminal offence. Also, if the court now applies that provision of this law, which provides for a criminal offence, Article 27. The bill, which is a new member of 74a, which refers to the crime of unintended use of budget funds, will have a misunderstanding. I agree that this should be sanctioned in a certain way, but the court will not be able to make good use of this article, because for the application of this article and the determination of whether there is a criminal offence it is necessary to know very precisely what Article 2, the second member of the law, or the original text of the law, contains. What did you propose to change now? Among other things, you have proposed to change in Article 2 of Law point 8 as regards the definition of what a propriety is. This member has been changed several times so far, and I can't say that it was exactly when every change of the Budgetary System Act was changed, but it was done. So, from that original formulation, which was in two rows – that the apration is the authority given by the National Assembly and the Assembly of the Units of Local Self-Government to the Government or the Executive Body of the Unit of Local Self-Government, that up to a certain amount the funds can be spent for the purposes prescribed by the law (this is an acceptable definition of the concept of apropriety) – in the meantime we have received in the context of the concept of apropriation, in addition to the general definition, so on. Permanent appraisals, which relate to debt recovery, also to the appraisal of indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, are inserted with these amendments and additions to the Budget System Act. I think you've had to break this point to at least three or four indents and define the following: what would be a general appraisal, what about the Government and the Executive Authority; then you should certainly remain this permanent apropriation, as well, regarding the settlement of liabilities based on loans and the like, I have nothing against it; so it should be as an appraisal to define this appraisal for indirect beneficiaries of the budget. Also, with regard to the above, I must draw attention to the fact that there are no direct beneficiaries of the budget. When it is said "the authority given to the Government and to the executive body", only by some broad interpretation can it be understood that this applies to other users, direct beneficiaries of the budget. But it's a broad interpretation. I have to say that this observation is such that we have to present it for the simple reason that then this article 74a or 74b, as I just quoted it, and where you introduce a new crime, loses all meaning. In this discussion, I did not deliberately call for those points that you have not changed, concerning direct beneficiaries of budgets, indirect beneficiaries of budgets, where a definition of who they are is given. You will see for yourself that there is some confusion in this matter, which is why a member who refers to a crime cannot be applied. I'm going to move on to the central question that brought this amendment to our table. I think you've had a chance to read a slightly broader explanation of why we're asking to delete Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. That's where we tried to state our position regarding what you call the National Investment Program. We don't think anything like this can find a place in the Budget System Act. All separations, all expenditures, government expenditures for what is a state function must be prescribed by material law. If there is an obligation to pay pensions, then that obligation is prescribed by some law, it is the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Also, if the obligation of some kind of social assistance provided by the State is prescribed, it is prescribed by an appropriate material regulation. What's the budget law? It is a technical regulation that takes into account all the obligations of the state, records them and shows them on a divergence and, on the basis of the second regulation of expected income, shows on the left hand side, where the state clearly says – we know that we have an obligation, we estimate that this year's commitment is so large and will be collected under the Tax Act and so on. With the National Plan, what you consider to be the essence of this plan is, in fact, some of the obligations that the state has to fulfil, for which it needs to provide the funds, but that obligation has to come out of some material regulation. I have to say, that obligation exists somewhat in some regulations; so everything you planned to invest for school-making as an obligation exists in an appropriate regulation that regulates education, where the state as founder is obliged to take care of its basic resources, to improve the programme, to provide new educational resources, new learning, etc. It can't be some new economic classification. This must be the classification of capital projects, with the task of providing, preserving the underlying assets and all that is necessary for the state to fulfil its function in the relevant area. There's no national investment, it's state investment, so where the state finances its functions. I'm also a proponent of long-term budget planning. I really advocate the thesis that permanent investment funds should be planned. Every year, part of the budget must be allocated to investment in state functions, so that the state fulfils its functions. Others are those investments that help the country's economy and economy. There are few such investments, and few of them are in your National Plan. They indirectly exist through the recruitment of employees in construction, maintenance, etc. I cannot accept the system for the state to fulfill its state function by having the municipality run for office, which some other institution should run for office. They should not run, but the competent ministry of a particular area must thoroughly assess its positions, possibilities and how to fulfil its obligations under the law. I didn't mean to talk about that idea on purpose, I don't know if it's the best example, this computer thing; well, of course, you provide computers, not everyone can ensure they want their combination, but it's a state function, there's the Ministry of Education. Health beds, it's also a state function. But don't come into a situation to say – this local self-government didn't answer, because it doesn't belong to anything. And he shouldn't answer it. That resistor responsible for a particular area must in an objective way look at the situation in all places. Why? The state and, first of all, the government of the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed human rights. Since he's guaranteed human rights, he can't behave like a mother in Leskovec as a stepmother. He can go to Vlasotanc because my dad's from Vlasotanc, and he can't go to Liga, because there's a cottage there. I'm only talking about the order of the case. The state is objective, it has to be objective and the minister can't say a parole like yesterday on television – I know it's hard, but vote for DS and G17 plus not to pass Dr Cvetanovic, and then I'll give it to you. You began as He did; so he promised, and those 25 houses were built. So, is that an accidental use of funds? Why don't you send him to jail? Was he fooled by someone? You have all possible internal control and audit systems, but you control all of them. When we talk about the budget, then we'll talk about some items, so you see, just saving on one side -- official travel or these cabinets, what's invented, etc. Secondly, Minister, you must keep an eye on when making statements from this pay phone. You insulted several tens of thousands of state service employees by saying that those less than five years of employment will get a 60% salary increase, and those others will not get any less or less. You don't determine wages. It determines that Balinian by that law he broke here. You know what, I don't mind what you in the government agreed on: capital investment -- well, finance and all this where money is -- you, where security is -- these here, what's for travel -- this wolf, etc. It's your internal thing. When you sit there at the coffee shop, you make a deal – to you this brother, to me this bro, etc., but you can't experience the function as if your dad bought you that place, or to act like Santa Claus: here, kids, if you're good, if you vote against this in Leskovac, you'll get it, I know you're poor, but now for the first time the country's got something. Don't say that. To me you go out on a midday, and I say, the democratic block is a thief's block and they are winners in transition, five or six percent of them, and who are losers – 95% of the citizens. You know how this eulogy about the big surplus, the big investment cycle, the big National Investment Plan, acts offensively on a citizen who barely covers the end. He asks the question - where is it, tell me where is this land to go. But we have plenty of time today, so watch today's transmission, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and after this session the government falls.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29291	The word has the finance minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29292	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to respond to some of the thesis brought by the MP. Namely, the largest number of projects under the National Investment Plan was financed on the basis of a proposal from the ministries, not by number, but by value. All key national traffic stations, all key investments in health care, including four clinical centres, regional hospitals, including what you mentioned computers, beds, these weren't local self-government proposals, they were proposals from the resolution ministries. However, some projects, not so large in value, which are of local importance, have also proposed local self-government, and this does not mean that they play a key development role. Of course national projects are key, but for the municipality these local projects also have importance. The Republic government cannot know at all times what is needed by local self-government, where there is no water, where there is no sewerage, that must be said by local self-government. Because there are 160 and some local self-government, and on the other hand, we advocate the principle of decentralisation in decision-making. So, the key national priorities must be brought by the government, and it brings them, and for local projects, they certainly know better for some local priorities those who work and live in municipalities, in local self-government. As for the second remarks, relating to salaries, it is your opinion that I have offended all other employees in the state administration, because in the interpretation of the budget rebalancing law, I said that the salaries of young people working in the state administration up to five years the internship would increase above 60% during 2006, and all the other 15%. However, you had no idea, when you mentioned Mr Balinovec, that the law that this assembly had passed would enter into force. It is the Law on salaries in the state administration and it enters into force on 1 January 2007, when it envisions a significant increase in salaries for everyone in the state administration. Before that date, we wanted to relatively improve the position of those who were the youngest and whose salaries were really very low, 10,000, 11,000 or 12,000 dinars. With these increases of over 60%, we wanted to provide them with a solid starting base for a new increase that will follow from 1 January 2007, and according to the law voted here in June. Since 1 January 2007, no one who has completed college and works in the state administration will have a salary lower than 30,000 dinars. It's a rule for everything, regardless of the years of internship, I'm talking about a professional preparation, and the pay range is going to be far higher. We will have the possibility of both vertical and horizontal career advancements. That means we have eight paid classes. In the context of a single title, for example, an independent professional associate, wages can vary up to 40 percent by one and the same title, depending on the quality of the specific individual who performs the job. Every year you can make maximum progress for one pay grade, and there are eight. Each pay grade brings up to five percent wage increases; therefore, for eight pay classes within one title, it is a possible theoretical difference of up to 40 percent, but, of course, those who are extremely pawned, do better work than others, do more work, give greater effects, the manager can improve and before they reach the eighth pay grade, can improve them for calling more, where they are automatically getting even higher pay. I think we've created a system that exists in all developed countries, and it's in effect since 1 January 2007. Now we have a similar law to do for health, education and other public services, because this law applies to the state administration, there is the judiciary, the state administration. A similar wage law should also be made for public services. In any case, when we talk about this salary increase for young people of over 60%, it happens this year, in 2006, and others grow 15%. Since 1 January, however, there has been an additional increase in wages, under the law already passed in this assembly, for all in the state administration, with appropriate ranges and improvement towards the quality of the work done.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29293	National MP Zoran Krasic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29294	It's clear to us that there's more money in the budget than mud. We know that, but you didn't understand me, Mr. Minister. A state official who has less than five years of employment is at the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Trade, Ministry of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I cannot tell the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because he is not there, at the Ministry of Ecology, this by Popovic, you cannot determine that only that category, independent of the workplace, the organisational unit, is increasing and others not increasing. I guess the employee's salary depends, let's get back to that self-management thing, the place where it works, the work and the results of the work. I agree that there is this internal difference, but you say – a solid starting base. Well, everyone's looking for a solid starting base! Only a lunatic says I don't need a solid starting base. Everyone wants a solid starting base, but you support these of yours for hiring them. You have been punishing those who work for 30 years, as Djindjic punished pensioners. He says they didn't want to vote for me, take off their pensions, let everyone die. I'm going to propose a resolution not to use any English word in the National Assembly, you know. Here, and according to the Assembly, officials started saying "okay," "oket," as the Frenchman said. You can't do that, Minister! What are these human rights, positive discrimination against those who are older? Well, because he was older, he made it possible for him to have a country and have a job. That's one thing. We know that this law has been going on since 1 January 2007, but one cannot arbitraryly make such discrimination among people. That's the first thing. Second of all, have you thought about these investments that the government makes, apparently by budget, to local self-government? Have you considered preparing a law on the property of local self-government? Have you thought about it maybe? You from the budget, in accordance with the law of material nature that regulates the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia, can plan and place funds, but are always the property of the Republic of Serbia, not that in the next stage you are passing a law on the funds of local self-government, where the funds of the Republic, Nis or elsewhere are local authorities when they get to this law that is preparing to go to one of their new tycoon long ago. The State is not responsible for funding local self-government beyond what is laid down by the Law on the financing of local self-government and those transfer funds that always go from the Republic. Have you thought about the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia being abused by someone in local government, since you are preparing this law on the property of local self-government?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29295	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. At the meeting of the Financial Committee, a representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29296	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respecting the basic requirement set out in this amendment, partially respected what was my idea, rephrased it and offered it as its amendment. However, for the sake of the public and for all of you here, I would like to say what my idea was and why I submitted the amendment to Article 1. As for point 32, I felt that when it comes to a strategic area, it should always be considered only the National Assembly, not the Government. The Finance Committee did not have enough understanding for the proposal, but it was partly accepted through the amendment of the Finance Committee by replacing the word "or" with the allied "i" and thus being said to be both the Assembly and the Government. It's a little bit better than it was, and something a little bit worse than I suggested. Since compromise is never a fifti-fifti agreement, but one where one side always loses more and the other one wins, I agreed. I proposed that a new position be adopted in point 38 and that the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia undertake to consider two months of reviewing reports by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the spending of funds from the National Investment Plan. On a proposal from the finance minister, the Finance Committee also accepted a compromise solution that could be quarterly, I agreed. So, I think it is important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has an opportunity, and the Finance Committee is exactly the right place and the right way to inform the public about the spending of such important funds, important by volume and quality, as well as the dynamics of what has been done on the basis of spent funds. It was an amendment and, of course, whenever there is an opportunity, I will try to strengthen the position of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly itself because I do not think it hurts anyone's head. I also have understanding of the operational affairs that the government is doing, about the dynamics of everything that's going on there, but I still think it's important that we be informed. Few parliaments will have the opportunity to declare such a volume and quality of funds in the future as I have suggested. This is a special moment in the history of this country, because it is spent on privatisation, which will not be later, or another. That was my amendment. I am partially satisfied with the way the Finance Committee has considered this matter and based on what he has accepted, I understand that my amendment is partly embedded in all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29297	The word has a folk MP, Živojin Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29298	My friend Baralic is pleased with the acceptance of part of the amendment, however, it is obvious that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Capital Investments, and the entire government does not need any body to control their private budget. What I would choose to vote for, when it comes to this budget, is an item -- funds for a referendum on the Constitution. Everything else is a distraction and everything else is hiding the right things. The day before yesterday, I said some things about the town I came from. Both ministers participated in the local television, in the promotions, and I think the ministers are in the Jablanic district, not the Serbian government, because they moved there. I'd like there to be elections every day and then see ministers, but I'm afraid we won't see them again from tomorrow. Some will see them when they consider other early elections for another local parliament, but given that there will be general elections, I will see less of them. At that time, it was said that there were no projects and plans, and they were just going to ignore the existence of local self-government at all. No one asked local self-government what is the programme and the plan, but only what a local representative of a party that is in power says – that is what we need for a few votes. Here's an example, as of yesterday, how the G17 can fund the asphalting of the handball field. There comes a bulldozer, a roller, a truck, led by the great Zlatanovic, director of the Housing Construction Directorate, who, while getting an earlier apartment in Leskovac, bought it, got an apartment in Belgrade, though his residence in Belgrade, a 120-square apartment, I don't know on what basis. He is now the bearer of the list, and if he got an apartment in Belgrade, then his residence should be in Belgrade. You know what party she's from, the one who's got the money and who acts like it's her private budget. Then comes a part of the peasants from another political option, not from those from which Goran Cvetanovic and I are from, but from another who runs local self-government and that bagger-man in the morning, machine in the field. The G17 machine is now trapped in the fields. How can one party fund such a thing? It is the realisation of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's just like Mr. Batman down there says - I'm here, I'm giving you 20 million, and if local self-government won't, it's against investment. Unlike many other municipalities, Mr. Minister, Leskovac has his annual programme and plan, it was adopted by the Assembly of the Municipality. We have a 17 km journey programme for Vučje - Barje - Oruglica - the borders of Kosovo and Metohija, to build a 17 km local road. That's what Velya doesn't see, because there's no voices there, because it's uninhabited, it doesn't see the old way. Both ministers know the road Leskovac - Grdelica - Predejane - Vladic's Han along the highway. It's a priority. No, he's building some pathways for a voice, spending people's money, not New Serbia's money, not G17. The head of environmental inspection in Leskovac corresponds to Minister Popovic, who publicly said he would not finance a $115m waste recycling project in Leskovac. Apparently, it was not a tender and says that while he is a minister in the ministry he will not finance himself, because Leskovac did not conduct the tender. However, Leskovac conducted a tender under the law on local activities. There were four bidders and the Austrian firm was the best, she got, and the Assembly of the Municipality made a decision, the contract was closed. Now a campaign minister appears – if you choose our representative (and your representative is a national bloc, New Serbia, the DSS and the president of Jagodin Municipality who helped the villagers destroy their flocks), then, as far as the 115 million already approved through the Republic of Serbia Ecology Fund, the minister will have mercy and pay Leskovac for it. What programs do you want Leskovac to give you if you don't accept the programs adopted by the congregation, because you don't want this assembly, it doesn't suit you, because there aren't any of your committees. You were only eight from the DSS because you lost them in the meantime, you ran away from Covic; the G17 did not even participate in the elections and is now struggling to get 15%. We'll respect it if you win the election, but you won't get it this way. Therefore, this budget will serve in a pre-election campaign that is on a republican level. I can see that on the Lescove case. You want to show the citizens of Serbia through Leskovec and reflect the future mood of the Serbian voters. You won't be able to do it, although it's quite a large constituency, 126,000, and that's why you're all sitting down. But don't humiliate us anymore, we're not uneducated, we're not illiterate, we see what's done. How is it possible for you, one, the other, the fourth minister, on behalf of the Serbian government, to go to the woodworking villages and say that you are financing it? Say – the state of Serbia is funded by the funds of your taxpayers, and then we can vote for this budget. The only item that may define me that tomorrow or the day after the vote, when I go to the green spot, the button, just because you will say right away – this one is at the border of Kosovo and Metohija, will lose Kosovo because it will not vote for the budget because it will not pass the referendum. So if that's how we pull the constitution on that basis, and you criticized my late president for using such things for the adoption of the constitution and the budget, here, two things now, just Kosovo in the constitution and the referendum in the budget rebalancing, you want to drag it through and tell the people -- these don't want to vote, they're against the state and their people. I don't think it's correct. On the woodwork case, you have shown that you are performing exclusively partially, both you and Velja Ilic, now Popovic has been installed, driving in your overs. I don't think that's correct, and that's why I called for us not to pay taxes while you're the finance minister, and you can come in tomorrow and do the looting. It won't be the first time, because your block burned down my house on October 5, 2000, and today, the court won't judge. This is where the minister says the court has become effective. I'm a socialist, and I'll never go to another court. There will be some authority to judge that. I think it's an incorrect and unfair attitude towards citizens, who have made it possible for you to dispose of these resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29299	The MP, Živojin Stefanovic, spoke, apologized for the mistake I made in the name. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing the minister came, and as for what counterpart Stefanovic just said, the same minister will be spent, and his party, as he did a few months ago. You know when he went to the convention, as they like to say, the gathering of those who are supporters of his party, as many as there were, a dozen or twenty of them, the newspaper published the title "Dinkic was roasted at the grill because he went to Razanj", then there was a pre-election campaign, because one of the dissatisfied farmers came to tell him how hard he lives and not to lie and not to deceive the people, but to get back to the Ministry and to see the situation of farmers, pensioners and all those who are unemployed. It's not the minister, it works for propaganda purposes. So yesterday in Banja Luka and he, and Kostunica and Tadic; it's all for nothing, because what you're trying to do as a major project now to present last night in breaking news of all the media, was done by the government, or by the parliamentary majority in 1998. It's not about what you're going to write, it's about what you're going to do and how you're going to side with one or two political parties, as you do here, for the sake of petty interests, in individual villages in Serbia. Of course, you'll have it back as a boomerang. But I will talk about this amendment tabled by my colleague Veroljub Arsic, as the amendment of the existing Article 5, or 2 in the amended text of the Budgetary System Act is completely pointless. You put in a single member of the law, the basic text of the law, Article 5, the university provision, and you say, in Article 5, that changes... Minister, and you, Professor, you know, talk to the Minister at various times and during your break, and when the MPs speak, you concentrate on what's being said here. But he's not here, it doesn't matter and the minister is completely absent. So, you say, "Extremely, in the event that a higher level of government defines a lower level of government a means of compensation for damage due to natural disasters, the local government authority responsible for finance under that act opens up appropriate appraisals for the execution of expenditure on that basis. "It is exceptional if the government of the Republic of Serbia and Mladjan Dinkic have mercy, right? All the laws are tailored to your extent and according to your arches, you determine whether someone will receive the funds, in which amount, and you do not notice that some events, unfortunately, of the elemental disasters, have actually happened. And to make sure that's the case, I'll tell you again something you don't know, I have to tell you, the finance minister is a few more days, right? The day you left and ran to this door here I thought you went to arrest the poster of Ratko Mladic, since, thank God, you will never be able to arrest a famous Serbian general. You weren't there, I said, let's just meet some condition by the first, then that's your day "D." But as you're back, I have to tell you that the town of Kragujevac is precisely because of the ministry's behaviour and because of what you've done in this way, with an explanation that you want to help the local self-government, that it has to do so, to open up appropriate appraisals, you personally took funds for the citizens of Kragujevac... Here is how: 9 July 2005 an unremembered elemental accident (this is what this article is about, which Mr. Arsic is asking to delete) hit the town of Kragujevac and the surrounding area. Whether you remember it or not, it doesn't matter, it's important to you the days in which you have these campaigns, your stories to score cheap political points, but this is a real event. That's what the report's all about. Your political party's candidate in the mayoral election, however, of 11 candidates, he was the tenth, a certain Miroslav Marinkovic, the head of the Shumadian district, did not make up any notes about it. The competent administration of the town of Kragujevac, so the authorities and members of the city council, wrote in a letter to the Ministry of Finance at the end of July 2005, that the direct damage suffered by the city by 154 million dinars was indicated to you the situation in the city. I'm telling you all this, and that's what I should be telling you, and that money is asking you, because it's your obligation, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to choose the mayor of Kragujevac. However, he also reported earlier today that he would not attend the meeting, for he is no longer even a correspondent. I said -- he's a letter member of the Serbian Parliament. Neither is it anymore, nor is he interested in the Assembly, nor is he interested in the citizens of his city. And since the mayor himself didn't want to, because he doesn't have any influence on you... Do you know any Nebojsa Zdravkovic? He boasts that he is your friend and is now a member of the city council in the town of Kragujevac. At Stevanović's initiative, because he says he himself is unable to get one single dinar out of you, so he had to hire this Zdravkovic... You probably know him, Mr. Minister, because he says he's your fantastic friend and he has an incredible influence on you. All projects wanted for the town of Kragujevac will be realised, and it personally guarantees, according to 18m euros from this National Investment Plan. I hear you don't even know these members of your party as many as there are in Kragujevac. Now, 154 million, with the tax on the damage done. Do you know how long it's been in Kragujevac City? Eight million 154 dinars. And not only that, but when the Resolute Committee on Agriculture considered the damage done to the crops in Jablanic, Southbanat County in the disasters that unfortunately happened to them, he ignored the fact that it happened in Kragujevac. Because the district chief, who is from your political party, or perhaps not already, has changed five parties; so when he was a ten-placed candidate in front of your party it was, I think, his fifth party. Maybe now he's got one of his own, doesn't matter. Anyway, eight million out of 154, and what is this member of the law for? How do you play it like that and share it with whoever you want and how do you want it? Do you have a report from the competent authority? If this district chief of yours, who's supposed to represent the government, didn't he, did he deliver it to you by the authority for the budget and finance of the town of Kragujevac and the city's main agronomist? It's not gonna happen. Let's forget about this Stevanovic, he forgot about the citizens, about his fellow citizens who chose him, about being an MP in the Assembly, but how is it possible that the whole government forgets one such thing? I just have to remind you that during that previous DOS government - which has done just as well as you - has suffered defeat and is faced with the fact that the people will no longer and will not have a majority, has been defeated by Serbian radicals in the 2003 elections – your former friend Bozidar Djelic, finance minister, for a year, whenever a law he proposed, waved paper on the fact that the chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, and the vice-president of the Republic Government in the period from 24 March 1998, Professor Vojislav Seselj, on his proposal, signed as Vice-President of the Government, has allocated funds for the resolution of the flood in the Forest County. That year in August, that flood took place. The most affected were the municipalities of Rač, Lapovo and Batocina and one part of Kragujevci. He answered that then warned the minister, now you are his successor, that any responsible authority should do so, to intervene immediately and to allocate the funds necessary. You didn't do it. Worst of all, you prescribe a member of the law that no one will ever respect. I left you only this document, here, now I have brought it, I also asked a parliamentary question about this relationship between your Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the authorities of local self-government, a few days ago when I spoke about it. That you don't think that I, although the citizens know that we're always telling the truth and only the truth, but that memo didn't come and it came. So, the City Office for Economics and Finance received a letter from the Ministry of Finance, from the Privatisation Agency, on 20 February 2006, where they, at the request of the City Administration, gave an answer to what was the funds from the privatisation done in the town of Kragujevac. That, Minister, is the 5% per article. 41st and 61st paragraphs 4. The law on privatisation, which should go directly to the expense of local self-government for certain purposes, as it stands in the Law. The chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, since we are opposition to this Stevanovic who is not here, the SRS committeeman, Mr Slobodan Divjak, sent a letter to Ratko Jovanovic, the head of the City Office for Economics and Finance. He replied that it was true that you informed him, or your ministry, that these funds would no longer be paid directly, here it says here, at the expense of the town of Kragujevac, as probably no local self-government in Serbia, but that you would, on the basis of what was planned – even then in February of the month, who could have known that you were going to Ireland, and then later, for propaganda purposes, appear with the National Investment Plan, and only now have you come before the National Assembly with the items as you deploy them – that, in this way, your will, or will be granted funds. That's what it says here. The worst part is, you haven't informed them, even though they've asked you for 2 more. 01, and restored 13. 09. In 2006, how much total revenues were achieved from the privatisation process in the town of Kragujevac. Now you're suggesting that this member change, because if you don't, God forbid, there'll be another elemental accident, that you act interveningly, and you say "extremely, in case," if you're willing to grant some funds. Where you received a full report, as was the case with that July 9th, 2005 for 154 million damages to the town of Kragujevac, there were eight million. Don't play with the patience of Serbian citizens and act as a minister for marketing purposes, still a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because citizens are hungry, citizens need to get a roof over their heads and of course that farmer who has created something all his life and has taken care of his field, gardeners, is asking home to assist him because he's a taxpayer. Can't local self-government... This Kragujevac is falling apart and that 154 million, we were able to find savings at travel expenses and at various celebrations, malversions that make up Stevanović's power. If you are already putting into the text of the bill that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do so, then carry out the obligations you have since one year and a half ago. No, it's just for the purpose of making yourself a promotion, a campaign. Then you write amendments to a member of the law: it is deleted. What do we do with such a pointless member of the law? Not that it will be erased, but that it is gone, it should not be such a law at all, nor should such a minister be and should not the citizens of Serbia suffer such a government, which is unable to fulfil the obligations arising from the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29301	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29302	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to clarify what you, Mr. Chairman, have tried to convince us that enough is enough to have the opinion of the Finance Committee and that Minister Dinkic is sitting here. I'm explaining this to the public. So, we do not work in regular conditions, because it is necessary for each of our amendments to have the government's opinion that, on the basis of this argument, we could possibly correct our position or, on the other hand, convince the government's representatives and the assembly majority that what we have proposed to the amendment is a better solution than what the Government has proposed. We can't accept Mr. Secretary coming out to react like an offended little child, like he did the day before yesterday when we talked about these bill proposals in principle. When he was told that Bor Municipality had not transferred the transfer funds for two and a half months, the minister came out here and said – well, they did not get the funds because they were advertising some kind of campaign for RTB Bor sale and as soon as they stopped these commercials on TV they received transfer funds. So that's why we insist that we have the government's opinion here, so that we know whether or not the government is behind Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's opinion. After all, it is absolutely in line with our rules of procedure. You said, Mr. Minister, today and yesterday, that the government cannot know what the current needs of all local self-government are on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Now let me explain how you imagine decentralisation. You said you were looking for projects from local self-government because you're in favour of decentralisation. Your decentralisation, in the way you explained it, especially the day before when we talked about the law in principle (now you have little regulation of the dictionary, probably some of your associates have made remarks that you have really offended and humiliated the management of local self-government throughout Serbia), in the first place, it is that you have given one question that local self-government has reduced the number of employees by half. You did so, of course, in Belgrade, in agreement with Belgrade Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic, but there is something very interesting – that all local self-government in Belgrade should reduce the number of employees for half, but there is no information in the public that it must be done by the Belgrade City Assembly. So Nenad Bogdanovic hired those who were activists of the Democratic Party in his election campaign, and no one touches them, Mr Mladjan Dinkic does not threaten them by suspending transfer funds, reducing wages, introducing forced administration, but other municipalities throughout Belgrade, and of course throughout Serbia, and how he threatens. I would like to draw attention or remind myself of the election campaign for mayor of Belgrade and now to tell the public to all local self-government employees that it is absolutely certain that Aleksandar Vukic was elected mayor of Belgrade would not have to fear being fired, but also those who were unemployed in Belgrade would be in a position to start hiring. As much as you influence statistics, Mr. Dinkich, you can't keep everything under control. Yesterday, an increase in the number of unemployed in Serbia was released. Data were released the day before yesterday, or two days ago, that the purchasing power of citizens in Serbia has been reduced. Now I don't know what your success is and what this National Investment Plan means, and how you see it, the solution to the economic crisis and social misery that is under your control in Serbia. Next, your kind of decentralisation... I am going back to what you said, Mr Dinkic – that you cannot know at all times what the problems are in certain cities and local self-government in Serbia. It is very interesting that these days and how you know what needs are and what municipal problems are present in Barajev, Doljevac, Leskovac, Despotovac, Gornji Milanovac, Žabari, therefore, in all municipalities where local elections are scheduled for October 1st. We Serbian radicals are convinced that citizens will not trust you because they have fresh experience in Smederevo, Užice, Kraljevo, Razanj municipalities. At the time the elections were called there, you knew all their problems, then you didn't need their suggestions, you knew where they needed the plumbing, and the sewers, and the road and everything they told you on the ground that you were the problem of these citizens. You promised everything. And what do the citizens of these municipalities today believe in your empty promises? They've got holes in the roads, they've got those cut parts of the asphalt that were pre-election campaigns and they've never been buried. You didn't do anything, no matter how much you boasted, and you and that capital minister of yours, to pave the way for you to make roads. Tell me, bring out the data for how many miles of unfalted road in Serbia has been paved. You don't do that, Mr. Minister, but it's a capital investment to take down those special machines asphalt, to grind it down (what is already done, that technology, of course, I don't know) and to return that asphalt to the roads that have already been paved. So, Mr. Minister, you know it well, they launder money best, and so the best and the most money is taken by those who operate such a project. Mr. Minister, the citizens of Serbia know that, so they don't trust you anymore. That's why we insist, as I said at the beginning, and at the government's position, because everyone in Serbia today, when you mention the government or any problem, when you mention money, taxes, distribution of funds, say – let go of what the government has to do with it, Dinkic has it as if his dad left it to him. What I said, Mr. Minister, is indeed the opinion of most citizens in Serbia. As for the National Investment Plan and your story about how you're looking for projects from local self-government to give them back some money, that is to say that you could do something in these local self-governments, you're doing it this way: where you have your presidents of municipalities they knew in time when these funds would be determined and they could appear with certain projects because they had a deal with you. As in Barajev, for example, representatives of your party before others knew when the election in Barajev would be called; then an authorised representative of your party for Barajevo appeared in the election commission in Barajev, a form signed by the president of your city board, in a form that does not correspond at all to that form signed by the commission and which was once published in the Official Messenger. It was with a date of 10 days before the election. So your parents in Barai had 10 days more time. It's a little thing and it won't help them win, but it's just about the principle and the way they work. When we talked about the law in principle and this famous National Investment Plan, we said, and I will repeat, that it is nothing spectacular, that it is no national plan, that it is the plans that have always existed, that the rules of the ministry, that the ministries, which is normally, have the resources of the budget, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since you have some experience with the National Savings, Mr. Minister, it now seems so sounding to you to call this the National Investment Plan. You boast how well you sold "Mobtel", you say, for a billion and 645m euros you sold "Mobtel". You say that's a fantastic price. I'm pretty sure you'd say that and you sold it for a billion, or for two billion and for 600 million. But the public of Serbia and Serbian citizens do not know if it is really the best price, whether more could be achieved. In particular, it became suspicious and interesting when, Mr. Dinkic and Mr. Schlaff appeared in Brussels. The next day, all our newspapers announced that Schlaff would be Serbia's third mobile phone operator. So you cannot deceive more citizens of Serbia, you must clearly say that you as a government have done nothing to improve the conditions of life in Serbia. From this National Investment Plan, you did not foresee the means to revive production, and you know that without it there is no improvement in Serbia. Today you have over 800,000 Serbian citizens living below the poverty line, you have over 30,000 children whose parents cannot provide a third meal, and if there is anything the government should worry about, then that is exactly the solution to these problems. You boasted that budget rebalancing, like this budget, wasn't social. I really don't know what you're bragging about, it's not social, but it's consumer. As long as you don't start revitalising production, new investments in the area, Mr. Minister, citizens won't live any better. The trend that is current for your authorities will continue to grow, and this is growing more and more unemployed, more and more poor, increasingly lower wages for those who are employed, threats of layoffs. You have already approached a million unemployed in Serbia. Now, several thousand more unemployed from local self-government will join the large army of the unemployed in Serbia. That's what the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, recognize, and that's what they're going to tell you already in the next elections that are certain, as much as you're breaking up and promising, you're going to get out of the government, it won't mean anything to you, because you really don't have room to extend this government anymore. This amendment to Article 3 and other amendments by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group are, as you are already told, the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party and our parliamentary group under this law. You can't, by this law, which is a technical character, solve some material things. The government must, that and without this law, you must know, act in accordance with the law and the Constitution. And what is the particular problem of this government -- that it has long forgotten that the Constitution is the highest legal act in Serbia, that it must be ruled under the law. It is your manners, it is your principle and we are convinced that citizens will recognize it, first in these six municipalities where the elections are scheduled for October 1st and then the citizens of the rest of Serbia for the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29303	Before I give my word to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, I am obliged, Mrs. Radeta, to answer your question whether we are working on regular terms. And as we do, the emergency procedure, Article 163, I will read to you the first position of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: "Unless the committees in charge deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions. "Indeed, for the sake of the public, please don't talk about anything that doesn't stand. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29304	A few clarifications about these dilemmas that the previous speaker had: first of all, everything the Ministry of Finance stands for is based on previous government decisions. It does not make the minister's own decisions, but has already proposed to the government, and the government confirms and presents us to the Assembly. As for these responses to the amendments, and given that tomorrow is the cabinet session, they will be in writing, of course, confirmed by the government, delivered to MPs. It was a question of why they were on time, because it was not now, but several months ago, that they sent warnings to Belgrade municipalities for exceeding the profit mass, not in the Belgrade town itself. It is precisely because the only city in Belgrade, perhaps with the exception of some municipalities, respected the 2006 Budget Law and made a plan for profit growth, i.e. the movement of the mass of earnings that was included in the law. According to data provided by the finance ministry, they reduced the number of employees and were the only continent in Belgrade to do so. Others aren't. That's why we had to act, and most of the municipalities eventually obeyed the regulation. Transfers now take place to all municipalities in Belgrade, as well as the city of Belgrade. I believe that many municipalities should look up to the city government and to Mr Bogdanovic, given that he has respected what was scheduled from the very beginning. As for the holes in the roads, I agree, the situation is far from ideal. I am not satisfied myself, nor is the government satisfied with the current situation not only when it comes to roads, but also local infrastructure in certain underdeveloped municipalities. We think it takes money and knowledge and time. We had time, but there was no money. You know for a fact that the cash register was empty until two years ago, when we introduced order in tax policy with sharp measures and managed to fill the register. Secondly, neither did this privatisation money was created by itself, because for 12 years no one in this Serbia has tried to charge any of that "Mobtel" that was state-owned 51%. This government did it. No, I am, as finance minister, but together with the entire government. We were able to completely reverse one completely lost situation. Many were afraid to do so, many had an interest in never doing so and that the state would never protect its interest in the "Mobtel". However, it was really done as best as possible. First the license was withdrawn, then the claims were purchased from the Austrian banks. That's when the state took over most of the claims at the Mobtel. She took the lead word and called for a tender, which ended in the best possible way in front of TV cameras, as well as a price of 1,524,000 euros, which is 12 times the reference price, so-called. Ebita. That was what all Serbian citizens and all MPs could see for themselves at the Financial Times the day after the auction was over. It is the highest price ever achieved in similar transactions in any other country in Eastern Europe. If you ask if it's small or much, it seems to me that anything that was more than 800m euros would be enough, given that 800m euros was a minimum price. I wanted it to be over a billion and a hundred million, and that's why we set the limit that if someone wants 100% of the property they have to give a billion and a hundred. If you ask if a billion and 524m euros is the price above expectations, even my own, who is often called an optimist who has an excess optimism over reality, yes, that price is far above my expectations, and it seems to me beyond the expectations of the largest number of experts and citizens of Serbia. However, it is good that this price is achieved, since we now have a lot of money to share and to invest most effectively. When we talk about roads and how many roads this money can make, only by the end of next year is planned to build 436m euros in roads. If that money only builds new roads, five million dinars is the price of a mile on a local level. Of course, the more expensive roads are of national importance. 85m euros are set aside for local roads, 1445km of new local roads will be made. As far as the total mileage is concerned, it could theoretically be built 7412 km of the local road. Of course, whether it will be that amount or something smaller, given that the construction of roads in southern Serbia and Corridor 10 is more expensive because of the need to build tunnels due to bad terrain, we do not know, but it is thousands of kilometers of roads below 7400km maximum in a year. This will certainly be somewhat less due to more expensive roads in unaccessible areas. Of course, everything we adopt today is absolutely certain not only of our government but also of our future government. All of you who vote for budget rebalancing don't vote for budget rebalancing that allows our government to work. The idea of the National Investment Plan came from our government, but I have spoken several times and I will repeat it once again, and we want the next governments to continue to realise the National Investment Plan. Of course, I am convinced that the party whose president I am, G17 plus, and all parties from the ruling coalition of the democratic bloc will also get the trust of the citizens to continue what we started and to realise this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29305	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29306	I'm reporting for the amendment. We listened to the university's presentations by the SRS on their university amendments. First I want to say something (that's what your colleague said, so there's no need to replicate) as far as Baraiev is concerned, since you mentioned Barai. The municipal electoral commission confirmed the list of G17 plus which is second place, and if we knew in advance as long as you said we knew when the elections would be, we wouldn't be second, but first, probably. Now that you're there who knows where on that list, that's not our problem. As for the differences in behavior and the understanding of politics between us and you, we could hear it in the presentation earlier. We do not underestimate and speak ill of any party members, nor of the Serbian Radical Party. We appreciate everyone's opinion, we appreciate the definition of all Serbian citizens. We're not talking about your party members, as you're talking about the members of our party. That's one thing. Secondly, it's a concern for the Serbian people. You mentioned General Mladic, this famous General Mladic, and you said you'd never give him up. Is that what happened? You say that all the time. Now, either you're lying about never giving it up, or you're lying to Serbian citizens if you wanted a better life. One of those two is a lie. Have the citizens evaluate what. As for Minister Dinkic or party G17 plus for propaganda purposes, I would agree with the National Investment Plan, as you said, if you had the opportunity, knowledge and desire to do such a thing, feel free to take all the pictures you want, but no, you took pictures with Jezda, Dafin, Saddam Hussein and so on. What do we do? The other day, I said on Monday that you don't understand things about why budget rebalancing is the way it is and why the National Investment Plan was brought in. So it's not clear to me whether you're attacking him because of it, or whether you're writing these amendments to erase something, that something isn't being erased, that you're proficient, that you're criticising the National Investment Plan for the very idea itself, or because some of your municipalities didn't get enough money. Because one day we're gonna do something, and one day we're gonna do something else. So please define yourself whether it's because you wanted your municipalities to provide more money, but you didn't have any projects or because you don't like the idea of the National Investment Plan. In the end, I'd say I'm glad we heard from an MP who understands everything, but doesn't understand the technology of making roads, I'm glad. Unfortunately, your MPs understand both in the theft of electricity and in the beatings of cafes and in many other things, and it would be better if they didn't understand it either. But at least you admit that in the technology of making roads you don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29307	Replica, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29308	I thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. I don't know what this discussion was provoked to, but I'll try to answer it. You mention some bar fights and I don't know what else. You're talking about not knowing the technology of road infrastructure construction. Maybe Natasa Jovanovic can't make a asphalt, she may not be able to involve either the malter or the concrete, but I'm sure all Serbian citizens know how much you steal on the asphalt and how much you take. Now, those figures are understood by all Serbian citizens, and they all understand very well. Now I'm going to tell you because I'm starting to understand myself, because professional people started telling me how to steal it. At a hundred meters, what they change on the highway, so they put those five millimeters on the side of the road, which is this much (shows hand), which the commission approves – they place 10,000 euros in their pockets. It's a bill, and I don't know how the concrete got mixed up, and I don't know what that roller was doing. I don't know what anyone was doing here, but I know that you stole money and that's what you love most about stealing and robbing Serbian citizens. This is where the man said something about the Horse and the Dafina. Whoever of the radicals has ever taken pictures with Jazda and Dafina, tell me who it is by name and last name. You're making it up, sir, not to tell you, as a decent man, I'll never tell you that, that you're lying, but you're making it up. Find me any one of the radicals who took pictures with Jazda and Dafina. [[Applause radically.]] Since you're not ashamed and ashamed, that's what your coalition partners, who rule with you today, man of God, are doing, what you're talking about! Something happened in Leskovac the night before last. I was there and I promised the people of Leskovec that I would answer some questions, and Mladjan Dinkic is waiting in the studio to finish his presentation and enter the studio, where he said – he cannot love Leskovac like me, because he is Hercegovic. I didn't even know I was a Herzegovian. I've been to Herzegovina twice in my life, and none of mine have ever been there. I love Serbian Herzegovina, Poljica, Sedlara, Diklic, Marevo, angry, Trebinje, Bileca, Gacko and Nevesinje, but I have nothing to do with it, and I would be proud to have. I can say that I love Leskovac and Herzegovina a lot more than you do, and much more than those other yellow thieves of yours and all the others you call a democratic block. So if the people called them a simple dictionary, as you know, Mr. Angelkovic, a thief's block, I think you'll confirm that to me, then we're ready to tell the people the next thing. There was also something said here, General Mladic was mentioned – or you don't give it... We don't give him, we don't give him, but we wouldn't arrest him. Also, we wouldn't do what you're doing right now, or I'd go back to something more serious and I won't answer to this man anymore, because it's pointless to me. Look at the country we live in. The other night on state television, Minister Dinkic appeared and said – we from the thief's block, sorry, democratic bloc, agreed to go all together against the radicals. I don't know what else he said, he said the radicals can't be co-operated because they're chauvinists. Here, let's see who's chauvinist. In the Serbian Radical Party, we respect and love members of all nationalities, and we all want them to have equal rights, equal legal status in front of Serbia's competent state authorities. But it seems that we in the Serbian Radical Party have a problem, because none of us met with Anto Djapic, the president of the Ustasha Party of Law, a man who openly says that Ante Pavelic's followers, that the Ustashas few Serbs killed in World War II. It wasn't us, it was you, gentlemen from the G17 Plus, from the DSS and the Democratic Party. You meet with Ustasha leaders who speak plainly. Well, you are the worst chauvinists, because you meet with Ustashas, you shake hands, you drink drinks, and you would forbid radicals. You're chauvinists, and we're cosmopolites compared to you and to everyone else, I think, in this country. Of course, we are Serbian nationalists in the best sense, because we love our family, we love our Serbia, we love our people by respecting everyone else and we just want to be ourselves and we're probably different in that. You'll allow me, Mr. Angelkovic, to abuse one minute's payphone, I won't say the next. A picture was published the other day in "The Voice of the Public" that a guy was saluting General Mladic's picture. I watched one news, another news, and that turned out to be the most terrible problem in the country. Why? Because he did not salute those who killed Milic Rakic, those who killed little Sanja in Barvarin, those who hit the train in the Grdeliska ravine. Just because a man was saluting to a Serb general, not Serbian killers, he's blacked out. If he had saluted Serbian killers, he would have been rewarded and decorated. In such a land of hypocrisy we live. [[Applause radically.]] Here you are talking about what an investment plan will be, like this or something, and people in Leskovec or wherever you want in the villages, from Oprjanje to Bočevac and Brestovec – and what we have to do, because we did for 30 years and fired us from the factory. These are the investments you're talking about, because when you fire people and when you sell something, it's for you investments. Now, when you've invested so much in people that they get fired after 30 years of working hours, people to verify the book for their child, so that the child can receive an injection, so that they can be treated, they have to give 18,000 dinars. Well, where did they get that? One Roma, they say, was killed in the Insult because he couldn't get medical attention because he didn't have 12,000 dinars to pay and thus to get a certified book. Is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that what you stand for and are those investments that you tell us about every day, that you flood Serbia? You're just talking about how you're going to be in charge, the whole budget system and the whole national plan is talking about it. For your knowledge, respected radicals and all the other MPs, the editors ordered that every TV, when it holds press conferences, must take pictures of that board – the National Investment Plan. Woe to that cameraman or journalist who didn't mount the contribution by writing – National Investment Plan. We're talking about seven, four hundred and twenty-seven miles. Well, as the Serbian government steals, it won't be 402km, because it's all the money of the Serbian citizens. Look, seven, four hundred and twenty miles! Over there in the wolfish area they take and cut the trees on the side, and they didn't even move it, until on October 2nd, as soon as the elections are over, all the machines leave and no one ever sees them again. It's the same in every part of Serbia where such things happened, in every way. Here, we invite you out of power to come, if you have time, because we have more rallying and gatherings these days. Today there is a meeting in Barajevo at 6:00, at Ub at 20, and tomorrow you are welcome, and especially with great impatience the people are expecting you, in Leskovac at 6:00. There will be a large gathering of people from southern Serbia and people want to hear what the future government will do. We thank Mr Dinkic for well predicting that a new government is coming, that a new government is coming. Thank him. We'll take care of it, we'll take the trouble, but we'll see to it that we owe Serbia, not in debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29309	The word is made by Parliamentarian Zoran Subotic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29310	Dear gentlemen of the SRS, I think I have the right to tell you something about your political action. In the early '80s, the first time I was brought in for an informative conversation, I mean the police...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29311	Mr. Subotic, you have to say that the Rules of Procedure have been injured now, and if it's 15 years ago, you can't really do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29312	Very funny, thank you, and it's good that this atmosphere is in the O.R. The reason I was brought in for an informative interview was the signature of a petition. So that was early in the '80s, and you know what petition it was...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29313	That's when this Rules of Procedure didn't apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29314	That was the first time Mr. Seselj was arrested. I was a first year student at the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad. So, it's that you mentioned yesterday that no one is responding to the fact that Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague for so long and that this is something that really represents a serious violation of human rights in the most universal categories and in the universal sense. I'm completely with you here. It really is. So, I want to tell you that I have this kind of legitimacy that I can tell you what I want to tell you right now. Namely, we have a problem. There is some kind of fatal attraction, so to speak, the similarities between the behaviour, rule of the Serbian Radical Party and the UN tribunal. That's where people go to prove their innocence. Since the first day that the Serbian Radical Party is founded, ordinary, normal, peaceful and tolerated citizens must prove their innocence before you that we are not thieves, that we are not non-patriots, that we are not this and that we are not that. It's something that, I call it, the fatal attraction between The Hague tribunal and the SRS. So we have no intention of proving our innocence to you. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29315	On what basis, Mr. Wolfie? Can I help you with the Rules of Procedure? He spoke to the Rules of Procedure. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29316	I'll try in the most correct way to answer Mr. Subotic. I can agree with you, as a lawyer, that no one is guilty until a judicial verdict has confirmed it, there is no doubt about it. I'd just like to remind you, when you talk about it, what you've been doing since October 5, 2000 to this day. You ladies and gentlemen, today you put on a pillar of shame every day, I don't speak to you personally, I don't even speak to your foreigner, but through your media, from B92 to RTS, it's all the fault of the Serbian Radical Party. What's our fault? Special shows are real. What are we to blame today, when we're not in power at all, on no level, for what are we to blame? For nothing, and I'll tell you that. I'll tell you what we're guilty of, because it's not a matter of interest, whether it's your individual or any other individual. The thing is, those who do it are afraid of something. What are they afraid of? They're afraid to lose power because they know their thieving criminal chain will be broken once, there's no other explanation. I can't understand this kind of madness, and it's absolutely incomprehensible to me, so what happens every day, the way it happens, and you say we're like The Hague tribunal. You, and you don't know what you've been filing for criminal charges. What I'm saying is, I'm willing to bear the consequences. So that's what the prosecutor's work is for, if I exaggerated and hurt the state's authorities, there are private lawsuits, and that's the essence of things. Have I seen Anta Djapic or you? What's the difference? Who shook his hand, you or me? I think there's a big difference. I'm saying we have a thieving government, someone from the government is after me. I'm saying we've got manners, you've seen him, this V.D. Chief of General Staff, walking like Mr. Bin, line up an army, and he didn't want his Krajina to defend, or anything, just because he was in Garmispartikirchen downtown CIA. Why aren't they after me, they've announced they're going to chase me, they're going to put up with the D.A.'s office and everyone else. Well, because it's true, because I'm telling the truth. You may be right, there may be, although it is very incorrect, however you will, but I accept every kind of political criticism, I have learned much worse, and to tell us, the fatal attraction between this and that, it is quite incorrect, given the situation in which Vojislav Seselj is, and the SRS itself, whose President Vojislav Seselj, who, as you know, forbids to defend himself, and they say, imagine, will have the right to an introductory word. It's that a man doesn't believe. I tell you, between the largest number of people in the Serbian government and otherwise in our government, in the city of Belgrade, which we talk so well about, all of Belgraders know that, those who love us and those who don't love us, there is also a fatal attraction. But the fatal attraction is not between the UN tribunal and them, but the fatal attraction between Zabel and them, and it will soon happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29317	Is it the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov, according to the Rules of Procedure or the replica? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29318	I have to warn the Rules of Procedure again. This is where they tell lies again. It's about more than once that the representatives of the SRS are completely deliberately playing the truth, talking about what happened in Subotica. Since you have no idea what happened in Subotica, I'll tell you about it, because you don't know about the tradition that exists for hundreds of years in Subotica. This tradition is called Dužjanca, it is the glory of harvesting, the end of harvesting grain. There were 1,000 people at that celebration. It is something organised by local self-government, something organised by all the citizens of Subotica and you have no right to use it for your political purposes. At the meeting were all representatives of both authorities and various political parties, local self-government, different organisations, guests from abroad, and among other things representatives of the SRS. Ask your former federal envoy, Mr. Gojko Radic, if he was, whether he respected Subotica, whether he respected all the citizens of Subotic and national minorities and all the others who were proud of Dužianc. If he respects, then Mr. Gojko Radic was also there, where the gentleman you mentioned appeared. Therefore, the fact that other representatives of political parties were at the meeting is because they respect the citizens of Subotica, because they respect Subotica and that is true. You ask what you're guilty of, you're guilty of a lot of things. You are guilty of causing civil war in Serbia, of not telling the truth, of condemning everyone else to be thieves, and at the same time you do not look at yourself and your ranks. You're guilty of making the people continue to go to war. You're guilty and stop that. Seriously, look, we have big business ahead of us, we need to adopt the Constitution, solve the Kosovo issue, we need to do a lot of things, and you're still saying that all the other thieves, that we're thieves because we took Karic's property and brought it back to the citizens. Does that offend you? Do you consider that a thief? So you were then in the alliance with Bogoljub Karic? So, you think that we steal and return through the National Investment Plan to the citizens, then you feel that it's being stolen from you, so say - you steal from us, not from the citizens of Serbia, because we pay them back.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29319	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must tell you that I now understand why the Serbian Radical Party is most popular, and why some cannot without censorship. Yes, Gojko Radic informed us about what was happening on this great feast and he, like all Serbian radicals, respected both Hungarians and Bunjevce, and Russian, and Ukrainians, and Romanians, and Croats and all others living anywhere in Vojvodina, of course in Subotica. Gojko Radic was at the ceremony, but he shook hands with ordinary people, not Anta Djapic, as you did. That's the difference. Gojko Radic shook hands with the citizens of Subotica, with those who made this magnificent feast, who participated in it, but did not shake hands with the followers of Ante Pavelic. I'm sorry, that's what we're different about. You say it's our fault and we're causing a civil war. Excuse me, what civil war? I didn't know there was a civil war in Serbia. Where was the civil war? (Nadica Momirov, from the post: There was a civil war in Kosovo. There was a civil war in Kosovo? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard now! There was a civil war in Kosovo. A brilliant line by the DB MP, or the democratic bloc. So there was a civil war in Kosovo? Well, did they bomb us for civil war? Listen, I really wouldn't think anyone could say something like this. In Kosovo and Metohija, we fought against terrorists, those who destroyed the state of Serbia, those who wanted to take some of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we fought for the freedom of our people and only to be our own. Thank you for accusing your country of causing a conflict in Kosovo. Then let's not be surprised that some want to take Kosovo away from us when they have the most possible support in you. One more thing, we in Serbia never wanted any riots anywhere. In the U.S., it's never happened that anyone ever organizes a rally to get hurt. We've never done that before. There were never any dead, wounded, injured at our gatherings. It is at your meetings. That's what we're different about. No matter what, we wish you all the best, respecting all citizens, we will protect all citizens. We'll keep you as a bit of water on your palm and as an extraparliamentary opposition we'll provide you with solid treatment at the public service. Someone who gets between three and four percent will be represented more than that, I promise you. We're going to do it truly democratically, not like this, because today when you watch RTS people ask me if we live in Switzerland or in Germany. They're not exactly clear, since only honey and milk flow, flowers bloom all over the place, no one's got a problem. What a country of Dembelia, this is not even in fairy tales what we in Serbia survive. Some others are responsible for this, the people will say theirs. And what you resented to the Serbian Radical Foreigner, I am sure that after some time of our reign you will accept and admit that it is much better with us, because we will do everything we can to make you live better, both your children and every child in Serbia tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29321	I just hope that we would not change the conclusions of the Serbian Parliament, that if there was a civil war in Kosovo, it was not the position of G17 plus, but of one MP and that there was a conflict of state with the separatist-terrorist structures in Kosovo. If it wasn't for that, it probably wouldn't have come to this position. Mr. Albianic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29322	I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 — the dignity of the National Assembly. It's clear, and we all agreed, so it's not here at the pay phone that in that style and in the spirit of what anybody was throwing at, and what you're relying on, I don't know... Mr Vucicou, we agreed here in the Serbian Parliament together with our decision ten days ago to install into the Constitution of Serbia something concerning Kosovo and Metohija, and I think it is indisputable, to install that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, and we should not lead the controversy over what is a mutual agreement and full agreement in the Serbian Parliament. It is clear that the SRS and G17 plus have completely different views on individual issues in Serbia and that we are clearly different here by debates in the Serbian Parliament. We think you're using an empty rhetorical story and not doing specific things. Here, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the G17 plus are doing concrete things for the benefit of Serbian citizens, and this will be seen in all future elections that are coming. Don't worry about how many percent we're going to have, you can tell by the local elections that are going on. We're going over ten percent, and you're slowly but surely falling, that's what I promised, so we're going to bring radicals to a decent level. I want to say one more thing in terms of what's on the agenda today. It doesn't need to spread any lies here, who he met with and why, but simply to deal with the agenda as appropriate. I would like the same way you threw me now to continue the conversation in a normal way on the agenda regarding budget rebalancing, the budgetary system, the National Investment Plan, major projects for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. So far, many have wanted to take in some way from the state, as Karic, "Mobtel", and today the state with the largest investment in the history of the Serbian state is best able to return citizens through projects for all municipalities in Serbia. I think we should concentrate on these changes, on budget rebalances, and show how responsible we are to realize that for the benefit of all people. Please return to the agenda, G17 plus will participate very constructively in the further course of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29323	I thank Mr. Albianic. Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad Mr. Albianic corrected his colleague. For viewers, I did not throw anything at Mr Albianic, except say he was right about the resolution and the Serbian Parliament's decision. If I said anything else, come out and say, "Don't think the people rudely said or did anything else." From the pay phone, I'm saying what I think. So, says Mr. Albianic - there are empty stories. And you probably have a lot of stories? I don't know what that means to you. You've reduced the radicals to the right extent. I agree with that. You brought us down, according to what he's doing for you, Mr. Brankovic, to 35 percent. I don't mind, 34.9% is the last, Mr. Albianic. Okay, it's not 35 percent. I apologize, honourable citizens of Serbia, and I apologize to your honourable MPs, for not telling the truth, not 35%, but 34.9. Excuse me, Mr. Albianic. Mr. Albianic is at 3.9%, so that's about what comes to him. So much for bringing it down to the right extent, and as far as CESID is concerned, and I think it will agree with me, Mr Albianic, when the local elections in Belgrade were completed, they had their exit strategies, which are stronger our stratums, which are stronger yellow stratums, and they said at 8:15 that Bogdanovic had won 14% of the difference. At 8:15 p.m., the election ended, not a month earlier than that night. It was a 1.2% difference, and that's only for about 1,300%, it's not a big deal. I don't have any problem with that. Here we have 0.1%, you all have 375%. I accept that in advance, rather than go to the election. The other thing, which is very important, you're talking about empty stories, and now I'm going to tell you a full story, as you would say, no matter how incorrect it is. You see, today the trial of people who are guilty because they wore cabbage and beans to General Mladic. Today, Serbian officers who wear the Order of the Karadjordjev stars for bravery are tried for defending Serbia, for defending the Republic of Serbia and not judging those caught with a 100,000-euro case. Did you know that in August, one of these, Simic, went to St. Stefan's casino in August, with an official driver, and spent probably private money, but before that, you were taken from the people, and returned to the state car. I haven't seen who earned it in Mil's casinos yet. Now let me ask you, Serbian citizens, is it justice that the people who have lost their legs, who are wartime disabled, are the bearers of the Order of Karadjordje's star for courage, for defending Serbia, in prison, and the thieves of St. Stefan in casinos. One more thing, I respect every member and sympathiser of every party and every citizen of Serbia. I even told Dinkic - I'm surprised where you got your energy from after all that, after what the people think. I respect that, among other things. Of course I love the SRS. I've got kids, family, country ahead of it, and then the SRS comes to me and the way you fight for the G17 plus I'll always try to fight until the last drop of sweat for the SRS and I'll give it all for my party. Since I've heard some of your representatives speak ill of two of our men, and the authorities have pulled guns at Ubba, just thanks to our calmness, the fact that I've asked the guys who disarmed them, there's been no severe and great conflict. For the sake of citizens, Radoje Lukic, a DSS beating player, works with the construction mafia in Ub, moves a gun on a 18-year-old boy who shared propaganda material for Darko Glisic, the future president of Ub municipality, an SRS candidate. Fortunately, the people I talked to on the phone showed up and asked them to calm them down. We're not even gonna prosecute these people. We just ask everyone in Serbia to calm down because it is not the time for any conflict. It's no time to spill Serbian blood anywhere. I can understand, maybe he was in a drinking state, maybe they're nervous, it doesn't matter what he is. Just thanks to the fact that his car was stolen from his window, and pulled him out of the car window and didn't touch him afterwards... Please don't let that happen anywhere. I pray that in Leskovec some do not threaten, are not currently in the O.R., that someone will be stabbed with a knife just because Goran Cvetanovic is the best candidate and because he will win, so it bothers them and falls hard on them. You see, we tried, we even sent a statement when this happened on Ubu and asked people not to do it anymore. Did you know that no one, except for this much at Currier, has released a statement to us, no television. We have police records and everything, but nothing to anyone. No problem, we don't blame that man, just don't let it happen again, just don't spread any more hatred for the SRS, because we're gonna be able to protect our people. We just want it to be peace, that everything in peace, health and joy will pass, and our people will, be safe, always know and want to protect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29325	The word is by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29326	For the sake of the whole truth, the DSS on Ubbe doesn't have any beatings or gunslingers. It's about the following thing: the SRS against the DSS candidate at Ubba is running a very dirty campaign. The evidence is that your representatives share all over Ub, and I think your candidate has a problem with the people. Mr. Glisic is in conflict with his family, with his relatives. Mr. Glisic draws an ax on his relatives. It is true and Mr Glisic has problems with Ub citizens, and the election results will show that Mr Glisic will not enter the second round either. It's an SRS problem on Ubba.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29327	The word is Mr. Wolf, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29328	You know, human insolence has limits, but the beatingsman from the Serbian government obviously doesn't. Batinas is called Radoje Lukic, I'll bring you the police records. How are you not ashamed and ashamed? You have beatings all over Serbia, and guns are threatening people who won't vote for the DSS and candidates I don't know which other parties you're in the coalition with. Darko Glisic in conflict with the family? Shame on you. I happen to be the best man of Dark Glissic, so I know his father and mother, and I hang out with them, my wife and son. You deserve the trust of the citizens of Serbia? You should not get any votes in Serbia, no one should vote for you ever, because other than being incompetent, uninformed, except that you are gunmen and criminals, you are also bad people. Such bad people should not rule Serbia. I was with his father and mother and recently, every day I'm at Ubba. I saved those gunmen from beatings, because I said I wanted peace on Ubba, not because I'm afraid of them. You should be ashamed. He's not going into the second round? You know how he won't get in? He'll come in and beat you, no matter what. You know how they run the campaign? Like everywhere, if you're going to vote for my candidate, for my butt and gunman, Zvonko Minić, and we haven't shared any propaganda material against him, we've shared propaganda material in favour of Darko Glisic, and you invented it... Ask around who else shared it. So this criminal can never win the Ubu, and the criminal is big. Regardless of all that, you know how they work – vote for me so I'll hire you on spears, and if you vote for someone else you can't get a job on spears; vote for me and I'll bring water to your village. You will not, fortunately, give anything more, because the elections are coming, whether in December, January or March, and then the people will wipe you off the political map of Serbia, and they will delete you because you are a bad man, because you are bad people, you have begun to enter the family. I'm a member of that family, you're not, you're supposed to be ashamed and ashamed, and tonight the whole Dark Glisic family is going to show up at the rally and the whole Ub and the whole town at eight o'clock, so you can see who you're going to attack. Let's be ashamed and ashamed, and I just wonder why the chairman didn't warn you when you started entering the family of people. You're saying it's not true, I'm going to bring you the record now, just wait here to see what your police say about what happened on Ubu.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29329	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really not easy for me to get back on this subject, and I think I owe it to the citizens of Serbia and Barajev, and, for God's sake and the citizens of Republika Srpska, to give some information. The G17 Plus and the Government's representatives were able to show what they were thinking. It's been mentioned several times here in Barai. They say to the gentlemen that their candidacy is fully in accordance with the law. Clearly not, I have here all the papers, the complete candidacy that G17 plus handed over to the Municipal Election Commission. The elections were called on 10 August 2006, the decision to call the elections came out in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Elections began at that time, and the first session of the Municipal Election Commission took place on 10 August with the start of 16 hours. The first item of the agenda was to prescribe forms for the implementation of certain electoral actions and to prescribe instructions on the conduct of local elections. Only the next day about 14 hours of a party that was not representatives of the ruling coalition could they come into possession of individual forms. It was, of course, at a time when the G17 plus had already had; first of course, the Democratic Party, which committed the most abuse in these elections, and immediately followed by the G17 plus, which submitted the candidacy under regular number 2. How strong this party in Barais is best said that they failed to scrape enough people to hand over the complete list, and it is seen by the way this was written that they were in a great hurry. You can't be here... I'd ask Mr. Angelkovic to take a look and say if he can read on this paper list who's the bearer of the list, I don't think he can. But, of course, they had the government, they had the majority in the Municipal Election Commission, and they did what they wanted. When a summary election list was concluded, on September 19th of this year, the Serbian Radical Party had the opportunity to make an insight into the full documentation of all those who submitted the election lists. It immediately came to our attention that this power to submit an election list, signed by Vladimir Homan, stands on the date of 7 August 2006, so it was two days before it was published in the Official Messenger's decision to call elections in the Barajevo municipality, along with six other municipalities, and two days earlier before the elections started. Also, the Municipal Election Commission has prescribed a special form under which this authority had to go and, of course, this kind of candidacy should never have been declared. The Serbian Radical Party Day, so on September 20th, when it made an insight into the Law on Local Elections, in 14.35, under number 013-193/2006, referred to the Electoral Commission of the Municipality of Barajevo and stated that the Municipal Election Commission had made an audit and violated the Law on Local Elections because it had declared a list of G17 plus - Mladjan Dinkic, which does not comply with the instructions and the prescribed forms, i.e. does not possess the prescribed OV-2 form, i.e. Power to submit an electoral list. The answer to this confirmed, of course, that they knew what they were doing from the start, but all they cared about was taking first or second place on the list. They thought it would do something about the voters, that they would talk about their strength, but the only thing they can talk about is that they are ready to serve everyone and everything, that they are ready for any kind of fraud just to once again, in any way, manage to thirst over the water and the citizens of Serbia. The municipal electoral commission has come up with a solution that has refused to object to the SRS. You will think first that they said no, that what you stated in your complaint is not true, so your objection is not adopted. No, they said the exact opposite. They confirmed it, and here I will read: "In the process of complaint, insight into the election material was found the following – an election list called G17 Plus - Mladjan Dinkic submitted Dragoljub Stanic on 11. 8. In 2006, at 23.10 hours, it was also listed in the list of acts numbering 013-24/2006, under the authority of the City Executive Committee of the Political Party G17 plus, signed by President Vladimir Homan. "The same authority, and is not given in the prescribed form OB-2 and bearing the date of 7 August 2006. Then they say -- look at the one that was subsequently delivered after the complaint was filed by the SRS, on 20. Nine. In 2006, at 22 hours, therefore, this municipal electoral commission works at night – the prescribed OB-2 form, which contains the power of 15. 8. 2006. So even that authority they handed over the 20th didn't have the date when the candidacy was handed over, it was 15. Of course, it was anti-dated, but it's August 15th. And whoever even passed the Law School will agree with me that the subsequent delivery of powers, after all legal deadlines have passed, can't mean anything. They can do it after 15 days, or here it's been a month and four days since the G17 plus candidacy, it just couldn't fix anything anymore. He goes on to say, i.e. this is the conclusion: "In view of the forward, the municipal electoral commission thinks that existing failures are being found, but says "they are not jeopardising". They are legally, however, nowhere to be found, authorized to decide whether or not it is important to threaten the equality of participants in the elections. It's not in the law, of course, it doesn't say anything. The Serbian Radical Party has taken advantage of other options. I have to finish, because it's obviously a major abuse, which, apart from the Municipal Election Commission, is also a judicial authority and it's clear that this is not a coincidence, but that the government is behind this. So, in accordance with the law of 21 September 2006, at 13.25 p.m., immediately after we received a decision on the refusal of the objection, we filed a complaint to the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, the appeal was received 22. 9, we listed all of this as stated in the previous complaint and asked the court to make an urgent decision. Under the Law on Local Elections, the court was obliged to decide within 48 hours. So when it comes to elections, deadlines are urgent. You can see here the court seal that was received 22. 09, which means it's up to 24. 09. The Fifth District Court had to make a verdict by our appeal. The court didn't do it, of course. It was only done 25. 09, which violates the legal deadline, which automatically means that our verdict is respected. Look what the judges are saying now. The president of the outsider department, Jovan Miloshev, was chaired by the judge in this procedure, and he passed a verdict rejecting the SRS appeal as unfounded. But it may be more interesting than that, because we didn't expect anything else, and this is something that the Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic should also consider, I believe that this is the basis for the judge mentioned because he shows complete intricacies – he explains in his explanation: "As the appeal was delivered without any documentation and delivered directly to the court, the court asked the Barajevo Municipality's Electoral Commission to deliver the election material in order for him to decide. "It is this, even a lesson on the legal cure of the municipal electoral commission, that the appeal is delivered directly to the court. Of course, the Law on Local Elections says the appeal is delivered to the court. To whom we would deliver it, there is no other way and there is no other authority to which we could deliver the complaint. Also, the law says the court is then officially receiving all the necessary information to decide on the municipal electoral commission. The appeal was unfounded and, if there was a failure, the court said, when a solution was made, that was when the list was announced. We've just claimed that when the list was declared, a failure was made, but it's a material failure, and this is something that doesn't go out of date. A summary election list should not be declared. Finally, perhaps the greatest abuse: when it has already been 72 hours since we handed over the appeal, the deadline of law has been broken, I have personally called upon the President of the Fifth Court of First Instance, Ms. Milice Popović-Đuričković, and asked that, in accordance with his powers, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ensure that the legal obligation is carried out and that the ruling be made in writing first, and then that the SRS, as the applicant, as the sole authorised participant in this court procedure, obtains a copy of this verdict. Of course, we, or that request, were not granted until today's Fifth Municipal Court, headed by Milica Popović-Đuričković, did not send the SRS to that verdict. So, with a delay of more than 72 hours, they sent this verdict to the Municipal Election Commission, although there is no basis for that. It is clear that whoever filed the complaint must also be the one who will receive the verdict by appeal. It was very interesting to expose MPs G17 plus and the accusation that one of the MPs, I guess the SRS, caused a civil war. I wonder, if you're talking so much about hate speech, is there a worse and more obvious example of hate speech to any of these monstrous accusations? What is the difference between what we heard and what Martti Ahtisaari said? I'd say there's no difference. But many examples show the two-faced representative of the ruling coalition, because the same government representatives who were praised yesterday by signing some special relations agreements with the Republika Srpska are trying to deceive the people that Dodik and Cavic, otherwise known traitors of the Serb people, who have brought Republika Srpska to these branches where they are now located, who have agreed and voted directly to lift one by one jurisdiction of Republika Srpska... There were 12 Serb MPs in parliament, 11 voted for constitutional changes, the only MP to vote against and prevent, but temporarily, constitutional changes and the disappearance of Republika Srpska were Mirko Blagojevic, an SRS MP - Dr Vojislav Seselj. So the citizens of Republika Srpska should know that the same ones who deceive them in Republika Srpska challenge Aleksandr Vukic because he is allegedly Hercegovic in Leskovic. Many well-known people, many well-known Serbs, are from Herzegovina. President of the SRS... Here, Mr. Albianic; my father was born in Gacka, president of the SRS Dr. Vojislav Seselj was born in Popovo Polje near Trebinj. Jovan Ducic was born in Herzegovina, St Vasilija Ostroški, a saint who is extremely respected not only in Serbia-Montenegro but also in Republika Srpska, was also born in Herzegovina. What does that even mean, he's a Herzegovian, and he's not in this case, so he can't love a Leskovac enough?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29331	Mr. Sarovic, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29332	Here's another sentence. You, gentlemen, can boast freely that you will cross this percentage, as well as what you are doing, is the best indicator. I trust Mr. Albianic that G17 plus in the election Sunday will cross those 10%, but it will be in all seven municipalities together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29333	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29334	Mr. Mihailovic, there is heavy discrimination here; when Vukic comes out, there is someone from G17, when Sarovic comes out, there is, and when I come out, they all run away. Wednesdays, I don't even count you there. With the fatal attraction and low passion to move on to amendments to the law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. It is a member who is changing Article 16, where some new powers are prescribed by the Ministry of Finance in preparing a memorandum on the budget. First of all, it concerns the need to revise the memorandum on budgetary policy. However, in order to better understand what this amendment applies, I must draw attention to the fact that this amendment to Article 5 is, in fact, the natural course of those amendments submitted to Articles 2, 3 and 4. I will briefly explain what is extremely disturbing in Article 2. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to this law. You see, you are now introducing a new category. It is said: "Extremely, in the event that the higher level of government defines with its act the lower level of government the means of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, the local government authority responsible for financing under the act opens up appropriate appraisals for the execution of expenditure on this basis. "At the beginning of today's session, I tried to explain what the appraisals were. It definition of aproprietion and what you're now giving as an opportunity to open up the appraisal is contrary. Who's opening the appraisals? The appraisal opens up the one who passed the budget bill at the local level. How can appraisal be opened by a lower organ? Where did you find that appraisal in damages? Shouldn't that be a constant classification in all budget classifications, in each budget? This is where it specifically opens when assistance comes from the republican budget. Why is she specifically opening up? Can't she always be open, just in case? Of course, the Assembly opened it. No, but to cover what was done to resuscitate the floods, so as not to see what was happening to the funds that the government was sending to local self-government units. This is why the amending Budgetary System Law is being amended, which is why a new investment plan is being invented, which is why the programme part of the budget is being inserted, everything changes. Apparently, new aspirations are even invented by some new European standards to cover up accidental spending of funds. The proof of this is that for the first time you're putting in a criminal offence -- unintended spending of budget funds, and that's why you've reportedly prosecuted six years of people for purposeless spending of funds. What member of the law? Well, that crime didn't exist. With this bill of law, you prove that only after this law has been passed can there be a crime. There can only be since the adoption of this law, since this law covers both these appraisals and the unintended spending of funds intended for the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters. Probably those 25 virtual houses, or virtual individuals, but real houses. A drunk man promised you'd get it, etc. Why am I going back to the amendment to Article 3? In this article you practically insert this so-called. the programme part of the budget and you say it will not be valid until 1 January 2007 or beyond what is going on later. You have practically listed what should contain that programming part of the budget, repeating everything you have stated in article 1 of this law. In this Article 3, which refers to the original Article 10, you say – the elements of the software part in Item 6 are displayed according to the programme classification. Why do you enter it three times in the programming classification, when the next Article 4 defines what the programming classifications are. We are against those programming classifications as you state them here. Classification should be interpreted primarily as an accounting term, how something should be expressed in order to be seen. This is how we get to this memo where you're looking for revisions. What's amazing is that this article's final position where you say that the revised memo also contains an overview of non-purpose and intended transfers. What are your non-intentional transfers? How in this precise budget system, which you boast, which is clear, transparent, available to everyone who has control before and after, left, right, from above, from satellites, through U.S.ID, across those from abroad who sits there with you in offices, through the International Monetary Fund, I don't know, has hit all the forces of this world on our budget, and every dinar as used, how can there be a category of "non-intentional transfer"? Is it possible that non-intentional transfer is something that should be state aid? There's no state aid anywhere, he's reporting to Kragujevac and Bor. Why isn't she answering in other places? What kind of non-intentional transfer is that? There's no explanation of what a non-intentional transfer is. Is non-purpose transfer what was last night in Leskovac, or before last night - I know you're poor, but if you vote for G17 plus and the Democratic Party as a coalition, for our candidate, I promise you... That's what he says to Leskovci, and here he scares and says, "I'm out of the government." How does he promise them when he won't be in government at the time? I mean, somewhere you have to lie, you can't possibly be right in Leskovac and Belgrade. It's impossible. He's lying in both places. In Leskovec he is lying, this is why: G17 plus was created on the basis of experts criticizing the Democratic Party for Bodrum, for Thessaloniki, for this, for what, and taking down the Young One and putting on Kori Udovicki; so Young People, Xenia, however, are no longer here, drawing diagrams as who stole, why he stole, etc. Here they are now in the democratic bloc, folks, that's G17 plus. That's how they go. They're demochrists. You're under the influence of the Vatican. The Vatican commands you, these are Democrats, or socialists... Even the Socialists are not with their internationality, they have agreed that only Serbs can lift their heads, so they're judging the general, so they're watching what's going on in The Hague. You volunteer, you go there and prove your innocence. When you take the right to live there, the right to defend yourself, then shut up, these are European flows. This is all for single use, the NGOs lead this country, on all sides of the mental health of this people killed by communists, on the first day of the month gave one position, on the 31st day of the month a completely different view. Any forest can be a communist today, and if it has an eye and it doesn't, and if it doesn't drink, and if it's sick, and if it's healthy, and if it's expelled and honored, it's only to be paid. They're brainwashing them, they can't concentrate where they are, so by voting for Mladjan Dinkic they think they're voting for themselves. You don't vote for yourself by voting for a democratic bloc, voting against yourself, putting it in your head anymore. If they could have been together, they would have all been with Dragoljub Micunovic since 1990. They fictitiously argue, prepare, negotiate for every new scam. DOS one, DOS two, DOS three, will always be some DOS. You've seen, can do anything, he's promised, and Article 5 is about unintended transfers from the Republic's budget per unit of local self-government. This is how non-purpose transfers from the Republic's budget will go, of course, we're talking about a memorandum, it's one projection, an expectation of what's going to happen and how it's going to work for the next two financial years. It's one projection of non-purpose transfers per unit of local self-government. You know how all this is gonna look in local self-government units? Let me remind you of one thing. You've passed laws on local self-government. In your law you wrote that units of local self-government are the city of Belgrade, cities and municipalities. City hall is not a unit of local self-government. This is what you represent in the dispute before the Constitutional Court, in proceedings before the Constitutional Court. And then the minister comes out, and here he says -- we had to take care of the city's municipalities, because they didn't respect the regulations relating to local self-government units. The city of Belgrade is a unit of local self-government. The city filled it. How could the city fulfill if the city’s municipalities did not meet? It doesn't matter, everything and everything they have to talk about from this pay phone, to deny themselves as Communists on the 1st and 31st of the month, just to cheat, to prove that they are alike, that they can lead, everything goes well. Where are the losers of the transition, and where are the winners? The winners of the transition are located where the beneficiaries of the country's and abroad official travel funds are in the economic classification of 422 in the 2006 budget rebalance. Where are the losers of the transition? The losers of the transition are located in all places, and these are those who have lost their jobs, who have been denied the possibility of earning something elsewhere, something alternative, to which you have raised the conditions for retirement, which must also after 30 years of paying health insurance to and how they pay for health insurance. They're not satisfied. That's 95% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The budget is for 5% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It needs to be covered. Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet will spend 70 million dinars, the vice president's cabinet of 34 million, I think that's how it works. Compare those two items with the last pages of that big book you called budget rebalance with the mandatory social security financial plan, etc. See how many pay items are there, for treatment, for pensions, for the unemployed, so you see with that money how much the social needs of the citizens could be met. Since this is coming to an end, another big taboo topic to clear up. Each budget is both social and developmental, and police, and defence, and environmental, and economic, and export and import, because the budget shows the government's commitments. If the state has a responsibility to pensions, childcare, health care, and if you interpret it as social, then it has to be social in that part. He's got to be police. What part? The part where the police are financed. He's here with our mirage. The young man comes out and says, "The surplus, we don't know what to do with the money." We don't know what to do with the money, it's more money than mud in Serbia. Then how can a normal man take this man seriously when he knows he's late, that pay is reduced, that pension is reduced, that everything is reduced. I ask the question of justice, when it goes to Razanj, they say, "Well, if you have so much, why do you not let us live for a little while?" You don't give, you punish, you selectively give, non-purpose transfers to certain units of local self-government. In addition to the election, you changed the election will of the citizens in 2004, and by keeping the apparently unconstitutional Law on Local Self-Government and Local Elections... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... You go to every place, so any shit from the government can be presented as Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29335	Thank you. One notice: we'll have a break at 15.00 hours. According to Article 85(5), we will extend our working hours to the end of the period that is at that point on the agenda. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29336	I'll try to explain what we're asking to delete in article 6. It's a bill of law. There is a complete change in Article 19 of the existing law and, if I may say so, it has been defined as preparing the draft budget of the Republic and the draft budget of the unit of local self-government. More or less, if I can put it this way, in percent, 75% of the text is rewritten, and only two new attitudes are practically added, but they're very interesting those two attitudes. The first thing that is added is in point 2. new point 4) - a requirement for the allocation of funding from the National Investment Plan, which is shown by the programmes, i.e. projects for one or more years. I have to make a connection with the previous one, he says, "On the basis of the instructions to prepare the draft budget of the Republic, direct beneficiaries of the budget are drawing up a draft financial plan. "The direct users are defined and are found in Article 2. These are the authorities and organisations of the Republic, or local authorities. Indirect users are judicial authorities, institutions established etc. The direct beneficiary of the budget, some ministry, would have to sort of justify his own need. When this plan is being done, or proposed, it has so far been that this plan must contain three, if I may say so, requests, i.e. three statements, data which are relevant for budgetary planning, with current expenditure, with additional funds for current activities, for fixed assets, and this is the most important - basic means for the supply of equipment, additional funds for capital projects etc. Now goes that new pothole, the National Investment Plan. Why write the same thing twice? That's what we already had. Point 3 speaks – basic assets requirements, equipment purchases, additional funds for capital projects start in previous fiscal years and for new capital projects. That's what we support, it's supposed to stand, it's permanent investment programs. The state must take care of its obligations and direct that part of the investment that should facilitate the state to fulfil its obligations to citizens, entities, etc. Why is a new, fourth thing made up? Only for the sake of choice. When you say the National Investment Plan, it sounds, sounds. It seems like a dangerous illusion. Look, you've made a mistake here, because you remember the picture of it, the big national investment plan is only possible if it is hijacked. What has become legal, rather than a little more potent, is being taught by those from the CIA, the Serbian one, says – until one day the other can't light up. Look how far you're going. Those who teach you, NGOs, there's everything and everything, they're not NGOs anymore, it's all government. Look at the Budget Rebalancing Act and you'll see, 67 different resolutions, from airlines, through agencies and directors, institutions, offices, services, I don't know, cabinets, who knows what you'll finally invent, and some other agencies, etc. These are all instruments of action, and they don't ask questions from the government, which is what the CIA decides most about. You've seen this report for these "resilients" wherever parliament burns, "resilients" are here. They're the front line of the new world order. Those two were expelled from Ukraine, they're from Georgia. Natasa Kandic is in that group and belongs to... And ye are afraid of Natasha Kandic: for of the attitude of Natasha Kandic depends on how many ye shall rule. That has to be said in your eyes to make it any clearer for the citizens, and I have no other way to act and I can't do it through RTS, I can't go over B92. I can only open my soul like this and tell the citizens of Serbia what it is, what its real name is and where the dangers are. I call upon you to accept this amendment, because what you have proposed by amending Article 19 already exists in Article 19, we are only removing it for that part of the EPP and that part of the concealment of what has already been done with the funds. The last member of the crime scene is a good member.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29337	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29338	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just for the sake of the truth, I have brought the record, and you, Mr. Chairman, can tell if I lied or not, because there is everything, with the seal and the signature of Inspector Miroslav Pantelic, or whatever it is called, all regularized and so forth. It's just to make people realize that I wasn't lying and that I was telling the truth. Some of us from the Serbian Radical Party say that we can only criticise, and we can't say anything about what we would do when there's a problem. That's why I'm gonna say next. The government boasts big investments, and we don't think they're real investments. Real investments are greenfield investments, i.e. when someone comes in, builds something, builds something and hires people, and not that – we sold something else that belongs to society or to the state, so we funded some big investment. Finally, we will come up with a key issue – when both NIS and EPS go away, what will any government finance, radical or anyone in the future? On the other hand, what we would do with the money that was received from the Mobtel sale was the question and the answer to protect Karic and the other, which is funny to answer at all, and I'm not going to comment on it. You see, first of all, we believe that we are conceptually different from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She made an election investment plan. This has nothing to do with the National Investment Plan and some serious investment in the Serbian economy, and, if you will, in the development of the Serbian state and Serbian society. I believe that the citizens of Serbia and how well they see and know one thing, which is completely inadmissible, which is that they are constantly told that they are getting something thanks to that authority. No, it's all taken from citizens, one way or another, and it's all paid by citizens. Authorities differ by who will be better and who will essentially, domestically, strategically, come up with a concept of how to spend people's money. You shouldn't think people, I've heard that a million times, that some minister brought them something. None of the ministers brought them anything, all of Serbia's citizens brought it to themselves and that's their money. They should not be lied to by various ministers to give them something and bring them something, especially those current ministers, because they will no longer be ministers. I want to point out to you the key problems of the Serbian economy, and how we Serbian radicals believe that this money that you are using for this god-awful National Investment Plan, namely the election investment plan, should be spent. First of all, both the IMF and the World Bank's will should have paid back their debts and should not have gone further. You can look at the debts by the shares of different cities, believe it or not, for certain cities in total debt revenues go even to 40-45%. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable. It is also an example of how much money is allowed in the town of Kragujevac, which is 39.01 and Kragujevac owes 10m euros, which brings about 3.5m euros to the interest rate, and a total of 13.5m euros. Who, ladies and gentlemen, will return and when? What else do we have to sell so much responsibility and debt to pay back in every city? I'm not gonna tell you how much the government debts are. State debts need to be reduced to optimal levels. And some should think not about how to win the election in the future, but about what they will do for our children, what they will do for our future. The future of Serbia and the future of our children is almost unthinkable today. That is why, first of all, it was necessary to repay all debts, and then start building infrastructure, and not in the way that it is done today: each minister, in accordance with the strength of his portfolio, according to what they received from the budget, gives so much money, so that it is distributed and, of course, made recommendations to use it in the election campaign. This is not a serious approach and is not a responsible enough approach. We have to strategically change some things. Yesterday I spoke to the hosts in the wooded villages and they told me what they thought about it, because they have a good apple there, that they sell it at any price, that we earn anything, and as a state, we import about 28,000 tons of apples, of course we tear down the host, we deliberately tear down the Serbian peasant. That goes for everyone. It's the same problem with potatoes, because we also import potatoes. I don't know if you knew about that information. We're sick of baked potatoes, but we need to get him in from Holland. They don't know how to be taken out by peasants in Bakenevec and all of Vojvodina, but we need to buy it from the Netherlands, like chicken from Brazil. People shouldn't think that what I said was a bad metaphor and I meant something ugly, but we're really importing chicken meat from Brazil. I respect Brazil and I have nothing against Brazil, I love this country very much, but I really think Serbia is able to produce chicken, not import these things. What are you going to do because we have a lot of problems like this? We've had a stock fund on the level since 1910, believe it or not, a hundred years ago. We're all responsible for this because as a state and a society, we didn't stand up to it. For us, more important news is that we have sold some company that is big, than that it has grown production in "Porečje" - Vukje, in "Tavo", in "Soko Sturko" and in any other company, in Vrsac or other city in Serbia. That's our strategic problem. Speaking of these big investments, our biggest investment in Zemun is still worth 50 million dollars. We still don't have any serious greenfield investments. I now know one thing, and economic experts will tell us that I'm right – that until the full privatisation is complete it won't be possible to expect a greenfield investment, because everyone is waiting to hunt in a blurry, it's bigger profit, it's a higher turnover coefficient, a huge profit and another. Later on, it'll still be a martyr's job when you go to a serious greenfield investment. That's all true. Then don't get your eyes dirty on the people and tell them how great we live, everything's perfect. Where do we live great? I've been going around a couple of villages in the past few days, and it seems like I've never seen so many poor people and so many hard-lived people barely end up. The hosts in Serbia used to have 10, 15, 20 pigs, three or four cows, and today they have a pig, a cow, so that they can feed the children and have milk, cheese, kamacks, beads and ham. No more peasants, because it doesn't pay off, milk is 10 dinars per litre, while the water is 60 and 70 dinars. That's not all I blame you for. Let them say we're all guilty, but we don't have to keep it quiet. We are talking about other things here – which the minister will take more pictures of, because one will give away computers there, and the maintenance contract will also go. Today I can tell which firm that contract will be concluded with, although the tender has not yet been called. That's what I'm going to say, because I know who they're in a relationship with, and they're also going to get the yearly maintenance of these computers by school, etc. That's how the money went. Great, here we are, and we give computers; if anyone is for modernization, we in the Serbian Radical Foreigner are for modernization; if nothing else, then we carry computers to every school of our own, not national, because we think it's important that children know how to use computers, to know modern technology. We're going to enter the era of robotics from the computer era, and we're not even ready for the computer era. That's all true. But let's look at how and how to protect our village and Serbia. Do you guys know what kind of inflow we have in Belgrade? Do you know what the outflow of the rural population is like with us? It's scary, the whole villages, the settlements are empty and it's not this one, not the previous or the other government, because it's a long process. But that process doesn't stop, it just spreads. The process is becoming stronger and more pronounced, and there is a complete depopulation of the rural population. Because he's answering someone, not to make any mistakes, someone thinks it's important that his import lobby gives him a commission for letting him do it. That's inadmissible. People know that. Because individuals put in their pockets, filled them, and now they put shovels in trucks, so they put up with all of Serbia. That's why we should -- let's get the people back on their debts, have you seen Russian President Vladimir Putin? We can't compare to him. We can't give... (President: Time.) I'm done, Mr. Mikhailovich. I'm sorry I overstepped time. I won't answer again. So, nine thousand euros for every child born, so he's gonna have a baby boom, and what are we gonna do? We have 0.9 children in Serbia today, and we're talking about the future and I don't know what. Vladimir Putin has paid back all his debts, he could have put in foreign exchange reserves, he could have put in his Stabilisation Fund, and that's kind of like our Development Fund, where he's already got $600 billion, but he says, "I've paid back all your debts and there's nothing more to borrow from Russia, we're not going to borrow money from you, and now you come to Russia to borrow money." We can't be powerful and big because we don't have gas, we don't have oil, we don't have all that Russia has. We're a small and underrich country, but we're not that small and we're not even that strong, if you like, to be able to destroy every apple manufacturer, pear, raspberries, blackberries, potatoes, tomatoes and everything else. So, until we destroy the pumpkin producers in Serbia, because we also import pumpkins. So let's imagine someone above that, it's not just about how to prepare someone for the election, and for a year everyone's been getting ready for the elections and for the initial positions and nobody's doing anything, but just thinking about how it's going to go in the election. And who's going to pay back two billion debts in 2010, I don't know, but I'm asking you, MPs, who in 2010, when the grace period for all the nonsense we've been taking, I'm asking you whose kids are going to pay back two billion euros, of which we're going to pay back in 2010. They say there will be a reprogramme, yes, so in 2013, we will have three billion. Thank you for your attention. I think it was supposed to go, first of all, to repay the debt, that the state was going solidly as the house was being run, and then to go to the construction of the travel and every other infrastructure, but apparently some of them didn't understand it; in particular it was important to pay attention to the pensioners, but no one wanted to pay attention to the pensioners. But what to do, I'm afraid we're in a dead end, but, as Dinkic said, I hope we can at least part of what you're adopting now to change when we form a new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29339	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our colleague from the SRS parliamentary group Dragoljub Stamenkovic has tabled an amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. Article 7 refers to Article 24. The law on the budgetary system, whose changes and additions we are discussing today in particular. This article is indeed the best example of what we talked about in the principle debate and what we are talking about today in particular, which is why it is actually proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by this law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. So, we argue that this is exclusively an ad campaign of one part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that what has been called the National Investment Plan is something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has committed, that it is nothing spectacular compared to something that existed before, that the government had, in its ministries, investment plans in Serbia, that what is foreseen by this law is something that will not bring any improvement, neither in the construction of infrastructure, and especially in terms of Serbia's citizens' living conditions. We explained it, and here, I will repeat where the citizens of Serbia spend the most money. They spend the most on something called road network reparation. It's the asphalting that involves paved streets. That's what I was resented here when I said I didn't understand the technology of making asphalts. I really don't understand myself, because I'm a graduate lawyer, but I understand what the authorities are doing. They tell us here – you, regarding this law, tell empty stories. Our stories may be empty, but the pockets of those who will apply this law are already full and will be full when they start spending these funds from the National Investment Fund, by stealing 10,000 euros on every hundred meters of this asphalt, which is not a new asphalt. You see, some thousands of kilometres of asphalt talk, Mr Dinkic, but of course, there will not be a tenth of it done in Serbia. Even on what will be done, imagine how many citizens of Serbia will be robbed and the fact that government representatives are constantly drilling something, and it's particularly relevant in local elections campaigns, and they say -- here, I'll do you this many times, this much water, I'll pave the course for you, I'll do this for you, I'll do that for you. But, my people, none of these ministers do it with their own money, they only have the money of Serbian citizens. Of course, no minister will ever use his money to pave the way for a place, but it is expected that the minister, as a member of the government, and the whole government, will be responsible for treating the citizens of Serbia as well, to treat the problems of the Serbian citizens as well, not to let what Mladjan Dinkic said the day before happen, that there will be no way of knowing how much wages paid by people working in Kosovo and Metohija; and they do not blink and say that this is a special burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is simply amazing that something spent in Kosovo and Metohija for Minister Dinkic is a special ballast, i.e. a burden on the republican budget. So that's the kind of thing ministers say, that's how they behave in the field when they promise in local elections that they'll do this or that. Probably one part of the people who believe, count, and say, "Wait, this is the government, this is five ministers, it's not possible that everyone is so deceived, that they won't at least do anything they promise to do. That's why it happened in some municipalities that they won the local elections, those representatives of the parties that make up the government of the Republic of Serbia. But these are just examples today of all those who are due to go to the elections on October 1st that they do not happen to buy the same story; let them call their relatives, friends, because they certainly have them in the King, Smedereva, the other municipalities where their citizens have bought that story from a government official, and let them ask what happened, how they get rid of the baggers the day after the election, how they stay to start a job, where there's a hole, hidden trees around the road or cut that one cube of asphalt. It's all a pre-election campaign and it all disappears the moment the election is over. We are absolutely convinced that the citizens of these six municipalities who are to choose their local government on Sunday will know that and that they will vote for representatives of the SRS. In this way, they will get, quite certainly, the fair authority of the local level, which will be able to deal with the corruption that is present in these municipalities, the government that knows about the problems of its citizens, as we know about the problems of all Serbian citizens, because we keep going, we are constantly present in our people. By making it impossible for us to properly introduce ourselves in the media, we use it by visiting Serbia, by explaining to people, or by listening to their problems first. That is why we can also talk about this national investment plan in this way. We are aware of the fact that the government's representatives here will not say that more than 800,000 citizens in Serbia today live below the poverty level, that more than 30,000 children in Serbia do not have a third meal. We are aware of the facts, the media said, that by three percent the purchasing power of Serbian citizens has dropped, that the number of unemployed in Serbia has increased by two percent. So, it is a pity that the government's representatives are not aware of all this and are focusing their activities on solving these vital problems for Serbian citizens. That is why we are telling Serbian citizens that after the next elections a new government is coming, the government of Serbian radicals is coming. As we are aware of the problems, so we know and how we can help solve these problems. When it comes to Article 24, which is subject to the amendment through Article 7. The bill, said Article 24: "The Minister delivers the draft budget to the Government of the Republic", and then there are six views of this member in which it is done, I don't know, the Government can ask the Minister to provide additional information, etc. It is something that exists in this existing law, and therefore I will not comment on it, but there is a very interesting position here, Article 7, which is added in these amendments and additions to the Law, which reads: "If the competent executive body of the local authorities does not submit the draft budget to the local assembly, within the budget calendar set, the local assembly can bring the budget. "It's a shame the minister isn't here to explain nicely what he meant by this attitude and this sentence he's trying to integrate into the law. What he was thinking and what he was actually going to mean, specifically, in local self-government. Isn't it enough of what you did to the bad Law on Local Self-Government, the bad election law, that we've been talking about since those laws were here on the agenda? We warned about the consequences of such a bad Law on Local Self - Management. We warned about what would happen when the president of the municipality is from one political option, when the municipal majority makes him some other political options, so when no agreement can be made, or law cannot be applied if the president of the municipality represents one position, and the congregation majority has another position. Then all that was happening now, the work of the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality was paralyzed, so forced administrations were introduced, so, as never before, we have every hour of emergency elections at the local level. We would not regret that there are so often extraordinary elections at local level, but the problem is that, thanks to your laws, the work of local self-government is paralysed, which is where people do themselves, they do pre-election campaigns, which is that the president of the municipality is never sure if there will be a congregation majority at the next session, whether someone will buy, buy. It is, unfortunately, so present, but it is you who have passed this bad law that blames it. Therefore, you will be to blame if you do not accept the amendment of Dragoljub Stamenkovic and remains in Article 24 of this provision that unless the competent executive authority of the local authorities submits a draft budget to the local assembly, within a fixed budget calendar, the local assembly may bring a budget. I just want to know how. Who's going to suggest it? If the local authorities don't propose a budget, who's going to propose a budget? Says Krasic, the Internet. And what do those who don't have the Internet do? Why do those who don't have any living conditions and just bring them the computer and the Internet? What do those schools they bring computers to, and they still use the Polish toilet, the rainy, the snakes are in schools and stuff like that? So this is simply amazing that someone has thought of proposing a member like this, or this provision. If this is adopted, we'll have such chaos in local self-government that no one else will be able to solve it. Indeed, will the proposal of these local budgets be obtained from the ministry, will it give Dinkic to those who are nice to him? Is that what Kostunica is going to give to those who are nice to him? Will it be Nenad Bogdanovic in Belgrade to give to municipalities that he likes? Today we have information that the Surcin municipality has the highest salary, and nothing living in Surcin is doing. While radicals held the Surcin municipality for three months, this Bogdanovic transferred funds to pay their salaries. Will such municipalities adopt a budget based on the proposal they receive from the central government? Is that decentralisation, ladies and gentlemen, which you swore your oath to in the election campaign? Here, today Dinkic was talking about decentralisation, as if people don't know what decentralisation means, and as if they don't know that it's not even close to what Mladjan Dinkic, with his bat from his cabinet, determines the funds for each president of the municipality, for each individual name. It is very important whether a municipality will receive transfer funds, whether it will receive funds from this investment plan. It's very important whether there's a Goodman or Sasha at the head of that community, or if there's someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29341	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 8, to which Mr Dragan Todorovic, the SRS MP, submitted the amendment, has to do with this whole story, which Mrs Verica Radeta spoke and on determining the fiscal policy of local self-government for the coming year. It is obvious that the amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, Mladjan Dinkic, wanted the existing Law on Local Self-Government to be played because of the fact that the law in its contradictory provisions created a number of problems in places where it shows its kind of two-way. He said here, the promoter, in a member Mr. Todorovic suggests to be deleted, which is what Mr. Krasic, the original member of the 28th law, would say, because of the fact that the funding of certain projects for which some local self-governments, according to how Dinkic has retired to share projects, has received funding from the National Investment Fund, and these funds have been used for many years. The very fact that this is potential in Article 8, for which Mr Todorovic asked to be deleted, makes no sense. There is no minister now, but these two ministry ladies should know that certainly the funds that are defined for some projects, according to the party line (so political projects are in question throughout Serbia, we have talked about it many these days, we will talk about it tomorrow), of course they can't be spent this year, and especially since we are already at the end of September and local self-government units are already considering the 2007 budgets. Why is she resorting to a new method in a changed article 7 that was just spoken of by her colleague, Verica Radeta? Because if the competent executive body, and the executive body under the Law on Local Self-Government, is the president of the municipality, does not propose a budget for next year, it can be done by someone else. Who is this someone else? He made a joke about his colleague Krasic and said he would be on the Internet. It is not, but because of the public majority - here, it is the case in the municipality of Arangelovac, which is opposed to the elected president of the municipality, who is the Serbian radical and the only one has the authority under the law to give the draft budget to the municipality of Arangelovac - it can do so. Then by the system of amending the Rules of Procedure, it's the next step that follows, as he was going to do tomorrow, Predrag Markovic, this one of our nakaradan Rules of Procedures will continue to tube, and if such a law is passed, and we suggest that you do not do so, there will be even more chaos. This member and this next one, which identifies these funds in the mist, the imaginary funds for these projects for local self-government in the budget for next year, according to the rules of procedure of the local self-government unit, will say that one third or a committee group can do so, what they will invent, so much imagination, that they will let go of the will, and by ignoring the authority that under the Law on Local Self-Government has the sole president of the municipality. That's the key to the whole thing. It is the president of the municipality who is responsible for spending the budget. It can happen in such a situation, I'm not saying it's going to happen there, but it's possible that it's happening all over Serbia where the president is from one party, there's a majority, newly created or created from the beginning, no political agreement and consensus on the most important thing, when it comes to the budget, and they're going to cut the budget as they want. This will not even be done by the president through the municipal council's proposal, but by a certain group of people, who can play with the spending of public finances, i.e. the management of the city and the municipality. Then how are they going to know that they're also determining the appraisal for that year and they're going to incorporate these funds from the National Investment Plan, and this imaginary one, if the president of the municipality doesn't know that? Who is this someone? So it's them, and they certainly won't allow the rules of procedure, nor will they allow the finance minister, to come to the citizens, or to come to the council of the local community at the assembly meeting and say they're proposing a budget for next year. No, it's just going to be this group of people who have some sort of formal legitimacy, they're councilmen, but they didn't do it by the president of the municipality. It's a very dangerous thing, and it's actually a way for you to continue to play with the patience of the citizens and to try, apparently, some foothold of your own in the electoral body, to lie and deceive. This Velimir Ilic, you no longer know what he's talking about, what he promises. He's lost every compass, everywhere and in every place he talks the same. The airport promised five places, making up people, events, places, doesn't know what he's talking about anymore. When Mr. Vukic said, after fellow G17 Humane objected to fellow Radeti and me that we may not know the technology of asphalting until the end, we know very well what is going on with the first layer of asphalt that is being taken off the Belgrade-Nish highway. The asphalt is driven by trucks to places where listeners and co-workers of the government of the Republic of Serbia are in power, those who work together, dealing with Velja and other Kostunica's ministers, and are thus processed used to pave some roads in these villages. A typical example of this is the Municipality of Jagodina (there is a colleague Ilic from that district and he knows it very well) or in campaigns for elections in Despotovac. Same system everywhere. You know what happened on Mount Jelica before the Gucci assembly? I know that, I followed all these events around the exit of the asphalting machine, for several hours of paveding 50 or 100 meters, because I have traveled intensively all those days to the municipality of Ivanica, which I will talk about later, when it comes to this delusion, regional balance and the development of all by equal arches, which is not true at all. The conversion, August 19th, and that day these people came out to work, was Sunday, a few-tenths of a metre of asphalt was working a machine with the largest pailing wheel, with the largest diameter of 7 meters. He told them it had to be done, that a few-tenths of a metre had to be done on one corner. People, like that, from a regional road company, started doing this job, wondering how it would happen to them, even to the transfiguration. Pulled that six-foot-long asphalt-slap machine across the road, and the width of the road was usually five meters, and blocked that space off the side, by the road, so it couldn't pass. Of course, since I and one of the parties from Kragujevac were on my way to keep Ivanjica's trip with the citizens of the village at that time... Bon appétit, Mr. Vukic, I wish you and the Serbian radicals in Barajev and Ub! So, as I set out with my associate to hold the stands in the village of Devići, I look, there is no passage on either side. We get there, people care, there's a big column, they curse Velya and everything that happens that day, people know it's for marketing purposes, it burns out 40 degrees, over 60 of that asphalt that's being sprayed. I, of course, like any Serbian radical, want to keep my promise, and I could either go back to Cacachak, and go to Ovcar Banja, and Pozeg, so I'm two hours late to Dević; of course I didn't do it, but I ask this associate and a few other people who care what they have to do and they know it's for Veli's propaganda purposes, to put away some shot that was on the side, people took shovels to break everything and to get cars through. So we cross the road, go across the mountain and come to one of the village of the municipality, which could, in the right sense, be because of the geographical position and the natural wealth that it has, the air spa. We come to this big holiday, and people tell us that livestock is their main occupation, the stock fund is reduced to a minimum; two households, and one member of the family abroad, have a little more livestock, and the rest of their most quality milk products have to sell budgets. On Fridays, when the drinking day is there, they sell in delicacy, because for that same kilo of cheese they sell that ransom price, you won't believe, 80 dinars, and in another city in Serbia it runs from 150 to 250 dinars because it's the best quality milk, because it's the best quality product. And, worst of all, people say (from the oldest radical, who is over 80 years old and over the youngest who have come) – none of the representatives of any political party came to our village, except when the election campaign, to address us, was only done by Serbian radicals. They say, in Devic, Katic, Kusic, and in all those villages around Ivanjica they could see live MPs, I mean live, and not that monkey they saw live in Jagodina when Palma opened the zoo, as the lady said, but the MP of the people, when the Serbian radicals came, because others do not come there. And why is that? Because they can't justify those shovels that I'm talking about this time, which I've been through on Jelica, but shovels that put money stolen from Serbian citizens in trucks. And then, since it's already on page 39 d), the conclusion of the project, it's the last paragraph, the minister who took this picture here on the front page, Mladjan Dinkic, I need to show his photograph, maybe someone doesn't know what Dinkic looks like because he's not in the O.R. right now, because he wrote nicely that these funds are being transferred for the next period, or that 50% must be spent in 2006, and you should be careful here, he says, "Also, since the projects generally have a multi-year dimension... "As if we thought that a school or a larger infrastructure project could end in this period by December 31st. It means, "... have a multi-annual dimension, during the first year of the implementation of the NIP", that is, this 2006, "enabled transfer of defined funds from 2006 to the next year up to 50% per project. "What he wrote here is contradictory of this article 8 that Mr. Todorovic is asking to be deleted. It just says here that it's a multi-year purpose. How would someone know, if in this brochure, in this draft project, the minister said that these are the funds that are assigned to the phases, how would that someone, based on these previous members, I think, of a member of the 4th colleague Radeta, be adoptrating for the next financial year? Total confusion. Then the minister, or Mladjan Dinkic, who gave himself all these powers to keep finance under his paw, is able to say – well, you didn't do it right. I just don't know who he's going to say it to in the local self-government unit now, when some informal group of people are proposing, or committees are proposing a budget. And then he can say -- you didn't do it right, the transfer funds that go from the Republic to the local self-government were stopped because of that. Full powerlessness will be created in the state, anarchy, which is happening now. All that is written in this pointless Bill on the Budgetary System, whose amendments and additions are now being discussed, is being interpreted in partnership with the Law on Local Self-Government, as decided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and also the Minister of Local Self-Government Zoran Lončar; in one case, it can do so and in another. Are we witnessing this? Was that happening in the City Hall? Yeah, more than once. Is that what's happening in the Racha Kragujevacka municipality now, what's the popular name? And now in some municipality when the assembly is convened within three months, since it is the deadline, where only the number of council members has been established and there is no quorum for holding sessions, Loncar interprets and says, where these are in power, or the coalition that supports it, it's okay because they still came for the day, and somewhere where Serbian radicals are in power or we're in coalition, it's not okay because there was no quorum. It's just one example, and I'm not saying when it comes to public finances and transfer funds that it's abuse directly by these two ministers and living up to people who, like the aforementioned president of the municipalities, radicals, where there is no congregation majority, try to keep that municipality in the best order, how much their powers are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29343	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29344	Before I go to the discussion on this amendment, I must say that we have not submitted an amendment to Article 9 because we believe that this solution leads to some order, but I would like to make a link between the previous members and this Article 10, which is a new member of 33a, which speaks of priorities, or order in the use of funds, in spending resources. Previously on "Article 7"... It's a bill of law. You have entered one addition of Article 24. Of course, the budget of the local self-government units brings together local self-government units, but it must be known who is proposing the budget. The one who proposes, he should also deliver the budget. There is now practically room for the situation so that the executive body does not establish a proposal and that a proposal is put in front of the committees. It is totally unacceptable logical, and contrary to all possible regulations and intensities of the Ministry of Finance. But obviously, you're looking for space for some selectivity in applying regulations to then put a finger on the head and think about where he's going to seduce a forced administration and where he won't. On the basis of this Article 7. The bill could make one good humorous thing that happened in Serbia with a new law on local self-government and local elections, and on the subject of budgets. I hope, Mr. Mihailovich, that you allow me to ask one parliamentary question. I don't know the details, but I've heard that when this new Law on Local Self-Government was passed, there's going to be five townships in Nis, but this original township of Nis just these days, making some partial balance and closing those bills with which some payments are made, so I'm interested in who could have paid those two or three years? Is that Ciric again, these Democrats? What's going on with those accounts? It's probably a similar situation in other places. It must be clear to everyone, this is where the law became a stretching, selective category, which depends only on which leg Mladjan Dinkic stood up to in the morning when he woke up. If he got up on his left leg, then the municipalities on the left can count on the favor of that day, and if he got up on his right leg, then those on the right hand side of that day can count on some favor, and it would be good to have with the chairman of the municipal board G17 plus the president of that municipality on the right hand side come that day when the younger one is in a mood and being – and my dad is from the south. As regards Article 8, which applies to Article 28 – that the budget is made for a period of one fiscal year and is valid for the year for which it has been brought, what you add "and the funds for the implementation of the National Investment Plan are shown in one or more years", it is absolutely unacceptable for us. Now I'm just going to take a little look at the National Investment Plan, where you're going to see how many illegalities, illogicalities and failures there are. So you're not talking about state investments and development investments in the function of fulfilling the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, but you say this -- education -- we accept it, but it should be a permanent position for these capital projects that are a regular phenomenon, that's already foreseen for us. Also, they are in traffic, and there are some resources, and then economic development, he says, incentivising employment and economic development. If in this way you think you are implementing the National Investment Plan in accordance with the Law amending the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Law, then increased employment applies only to state administration, does not apply to economic capacity. I'm distracting you that citizens are thinking the other way around, there are few citizens who are wrong. Then you say, apartment building. Since when is the state's jurisdiction of housing? It is in some way involved in addressing the housing needs of state administration employees, so it is widely observed what state administration and public services are. But before the Constitutional Court, there was a regulation, a regulation on the distribution of apartments, and that was exactly the one that made it possible for a civil servant to get an apartment to take out a loan and buy out an apartment. Then how do you think you share that? I see by the localities, you'd be renters of the apartment on the use and units of local self-government. That's impossible. We'll probably talk about it tomorrow or we'll start today. He says, "Coordination Body Tasks." Is that the co-ordination body of some new state body? How are you going to form it? I guess a solution should be made, so it will stand on the basis of which law, the Law on Government, the Law on Ministry, the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Amendments and Rebalances for 2006. All these laws cannot be the legal basis for making a decision on the selection of members of the Coordination Body and of these other bodies. He can't. There is no way, unless you remember, as at the time of Djindjic, when they took the famous Article 2. The government law. It says there, general norm, the government brings regulation. They say – it is a legal basis, and all possible regulations are adopted on the basis of that member. You're a little bit more legal than those anarchists. Projects, so on – inapplicable, absolutely inapplicable from the point of view of respect for constitutionality and legality. Now let me go back to this article 10, which is also making some kind of connection. You here are now very good at giving reasons why you are asking to install this member. I fully support the reasons you stated. The reason is that the Ministry of Finance through the Treasury and other bodies has concluded that the beneficiaries of the budget use one malfeasance, a fine, and it is viewed in the next – that those funds that they charge independently, let them be theirs, under the allegations, original revenues, these are some fees, fees and so on, store and store, and ask the state for what belongs to them under the Budget Law. The situation now arises that the budgets are being spent as soon as possible (when I say budget, I mean both transfer and this second), and those personal funds earned by budget users are being held as reserves and transferred from year to year. That should fit on the tail. This way you suggest it's not good. Here you're saying that he has to spend his personal resources first, so he can report on what his budget has planned. You are demeaning the budget in the broadest sense of the word understood and the concept of appraisal. Where's the solution? The solution is that all or individual original incomes of the beneficiaries of the budget have a predetermined purpose for what they will be spent on. You've solved all the problems. If the tax is prescribed, charged, the law must immediately prescribe for what purposes these funds can be used. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: Where is the commission? There's no commission. It's probably why you don't look that way. I must draw your attention, you did not act in the same way when it comes to budget beneficiaries. Some of you have tolerated, some of you have not. Based on what we're doing, I said it a year ago, I see journalists quoting, one predicted some shock therapy in the economy, and now we have pit bull therapy in our public finances. Just to remind you that many times the Ministry of Finance, abuse of the right of the majority... And most of them have the right to pass normal laws, not have the right and authority to pass abnormal laws. By abuse of the rights of the majority in the Budget Law, provisions have been put in place that if you do not listen to the finance minister, he can deny you funds from the budget until you realize and realize what the minister has imagined. A few days ago we talked about the situation that the government said -- you cut the number of employees by so much and so much, so when the number of employees is reduced by so much and so much, then the other minister says -- and that's what ours who went away took even the severances, not, but to get them back to work. You get them back to work, but they don't return the severance. The minister doesn't increase the transfer to the municipality that much, but rather deny it for that much, so they get punished twice. You're punished when you listen to the minister, you're punished when you respect the minister and you get a court ruling. It's an impossible condition. Why is it impossible? There is no rule of law, there is only the will of an individual. He's a benchmark, he's a messiah, like Vuk Draskovic. Vuk Draskovic imagined a man to be a messiah, he thinks he's a minister; but it's not a problem that he thinks he's a minister and his wife, but that you accept what he imagined. There's a problem, it's not his brainiac that weak. The problem is that you do most of this support and accept everything and everything. Here, when you insert this provision, you will also abuse. Here's what I'm going to tell you, the revenue that the organ achieves, he's going to have to spend it this way, and when are the transfer funds coming in from whom is it going to depend? My dad's from the south. It's not working, it can't. They can't be run through that system, no matter what they're dissociated, and the Treasury, and money laundering, and the Tax Administration, and the Inspectorate, and this, and that, and that side that needs to be incomed and that side that needs to control distribution and cost. Regardless, it's so dissociative that it couldn't be one whole. Here is really a problem of decentralisation, it appears as a problem – as far away from Junior. This isn't as far away from the finance minister as possible, this is all with the finance minister. The International Monetary Fund has its own employees in one agency, this one has in the Treasury, this one at the IRS, this one over here, this one over there. This country is not run by people with their last names and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. She's being led by strangers. Only a stranger can hate Serbian citizens as much as can be seen in these provisions coming out of these laws. Every time there is an amendment and an addition to the law is said – most modern, the most important European standard. Everything is a European standard. There, Serbian citizens, what are European standards. The more you respect the European standard, the less you have, the more you think about why, as it is, immediately some donor appears, for two days being bulldozers, on the third day there is no promise of crazy joy, until the next round. Why aren't they stable finances, why aren't they clear finances? He's not answering anyone. It does not match those who represent themselves as a democratic bloc, a thief-democratic bloc; a liberal democratic party and everything that comes out of it, and yellow, and green and so forth. You don't rule, you don't rule. For the sake of pay, you should raise your heads and feet, if necessary, and your hands for this and present to the citizens that they are very well, except they don't know what's wrong with them. Or, as one lady said at the G17 plus-Mr Dinkic's session, can you explain to us how to convince these at home? It's not clear to them either, I fully understand them. I have your logs from the parliamentary group sessions. I'm a professional spy, I know where there is, I'm a politician, I'm not a politician, I've been a politician for 15 years, I need to know everything. I read both the CIA reports and these other reports, and I know everything: and when the younger ones were listening and who was listening to him, and who was working for Kolesar, and this and that, I know everything. I'm not saying anything in my head. Laufer's gonna retire me. So, we're telling you everything in advance, but I still have to tell you to pass it on to Mr. Dinkic, we're taking care of what we talked about last time about this law and last time, because there's a system with us. You see, it goes as one whole, there's no overlapping, there's no mutual denial, unlike the government, which differs, which is being denied from the bill to the bill. We didn't put up with the amendments at all. Why? Because we noticed that you wanted to accept something to look like a provision, so that it would come out here and say, you see, you talked last time, we accepted it. You didn't accept it, you turned it around. How? The side that suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29345	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. We interrupt work, set a break of an hour. Resumption at 16.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29346	Dear Members of the Parliament, gentlemen, in a few seconds, I apologize for this, we will continue after the break, only to enter those MPs who are to participate in the debate. Thanks for the good mood. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day, as we have said off the record, we continue to search the details of the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. Let me thank you once again for my responsibilities, because, as I was informed, the chairman announced during the morning work that we will be working today until the end of the search in particular of the agenda item that will be on the agenda at 18 hours. This means that we will continue to work hard today to discuss everything that is important for Serbia's stability. Thank you very much. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29347	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have made essential remarks and proposals and the position of the Serbian Radical Party when it comes to the Law on the Budgetary System. I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, and I expect this amendment to be adopted. It is, that a member of the 12th bill is deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not important to pass a large number of laws, it's important to make good laws. When it comes to the Budget Law, when it comes to the Budgetary System Act, I must point out that the most important thing is that these laws are not well done. The way in which budgets, appraisals, schedules and transfers are to be used, i.e. to be regulated in the best possible way by these bill proposals, are not well resolved at all. And that, of course, is not a good solution. Serbian Radical Party MPs have entered into essence and provided valid answers and explanations as to why the Serbian Radical Party thinks the bill is not good. In order not to repeat what the MPs of the SRS have explained in detail, I would just ask a question – why do we not have budgetary control? I'm also asking a question, if you'll allow me, Mr. President, the Government and the Minister of Finance – how many taxpayers there are. those clerks who charge taxes from citizens? Is it about 7,000 perpetrators or not? The second question is, how many budgetary inspectors do we have doing budgetary control? Third, I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance's report to be delivered to MPs; I am asking a parliamentary question and asking for an answer – how many cases in the territory of the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to the day of today's budget controls were carried out in local self-government, as well as budget controls in the government's portfolios? I was also asking a question a year ago about whether budget control was being carried out at the local level. I didn't get an answer then either, but I hope we're closer this time, because this is about concrete matter that regulates the budget and the use of budget funds. That is why I ask for a report on how many municipalities have been controlled by the government of Serbia's budgetary inspection, in which municipalities, and their findings, whether local self-government and other budget users comply with the law or not, if not, whether measures have been taken. The findings of the budget inspection specifically, to be clear once that there is no non-intentional spending of funds, as it is mostly attributed to the earlier authorities. I'm also asking another question and I'm looking for an answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29348	Excuse me, Mr. Jojic, these three questions you asked will be formulated and delivered to you in the morning. Is this a fourth question or a rhetorical question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29349	First I'd give one explanation, then the question, because I won't be understood enough. Three or four months ago, a road reconstruction began between Belgrade and Panchev. Citizens saw something going on, something that shouldn't have been done. That road was built in 1999, one part of the previous years, and half of that road was built between the settlement of Krnjak and the first part, from here when you head towards Panchev in the middle of the road. But what happened? The contractors dug and dug, first took off the asphalt, came across the tampon. That asphalt and that tampon were driven to another location to make roads, and now there's a new tampon on that part again, it's done a new asphalt a month ago, if not more, but I won't be precise, maybe 15 days there's no way of hitting the ribbon between the Cranch towards Panchev. But we had something to see – as I travel every day with MPs from South Banat, and the citizens who travel on that part of the road to South Banat and those who work in Belgrade or Pancheva – three days ago, the reconstruction of what was paved 15 days ago began. What now? It wasn't the tampon that the government was doing, they dug it up. Now the question of the value of the works during the first excavation and reconstruction is being raised, what about this reconstruction that is being done again on the road that was completed 15 days ago. I ask the question of how much these additional works are now, which are caused either by unprofessional work or in order to take money from the contractors, for the second time. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of Capital Investments, as it goes directly through the Republic Directorate, and I'm asking the question, and I'm looking for an answer -- how much did the reconstruction cost until the final road work? How much new now, other their reconstruction and works, contract and contract annexes to be delivered, and who will be responsible for such distribution of funds and for such use of funds and to see who took the money. The money's huge, it's a six-track trip. It's a big investment. So let's see if the means are spent, and now that that's over 15 days ago, and now we're digging it up again, we now have reinvestment and again the investor takes the money. Will the criminally responsible one who reopened the works and began on that part of the road and how much would it cost?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29350	Mr. Jojic, I confirm that you will have three formulated questions for the Ministry of Finance and a fourth for the Ministry of Capital Investments. I'll make sure you get an answer in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29351	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to transfers and the focus of funds from the Republic's budget to municipalities, I have to ask one question – why is there no government from budgets and other sources of income, credit and donations to Panchevo? Why isn't the issue of environmental protection being resolved there? Why? Promises have been made years ago. Labus came to Pancheva one day after the debate in the Assembly and said – we want to help solve the issue of the industrial zone, which so-called destroys the city, i.e. Of which the consequences and the dirty technology die a year about 1,500 people of cancer. That's what you don't care about. There's not enough control over whether the funds are going in the direction they're headed. Second, there's no priority. The South Banat industrial zone, only one factory this year, exported 160m euros, Petrochemy, and what remains in Panchev? Nothing. Only the burns remain and the consequences remain for the citizens of Panchev. What did they make up? The government and the Ministry of Ecology say – we set up monitoring in two places, we measure at the firehouse and in the city center what is the degree of pollution, and nothing more. No one asks an extremely important question, no one talks about where hundreds and hundreds of millions of environmental taxes are charged in the southern industrial zone, i.e. Azotari, Petrochemy and Refinery. Why isn't the government in control and where's the budget control? There's no control. It's free of these laws. We can talk as much as we want, but the result and the priority... We Serbian radicals believe that priorities should be identified, and who does what must be controlled. Someone mentioned today a playground and that a party of handball children's playground had asphalted. None. I remind you that local elections in Kovin were held in July. Three machines came to Bavanište, and one peddler of asphalt. They paved one children's playground and the machines stayed until the election was over and on Monday they were gone, and they were working Saturday and Sunday. The same you and one pump came to a Roma village in Bavanist, that common hand, the well, and they set it up, and they tried to deceive the voters. They went from house to house to share flour, oil and sugar. When they lost the election at that polling station, what happened? They called their activist to account and went to buy sugar with them and the money and everything they gave for the election. That's what the paper said. This is what is not appropriate and no funds should be used unintendedly. We go through Serbia and now we make goat trails or we promise roads and asphalting. Please exercise control, ladies and gentlemen, where the funds via the Ministry of Capital Investment have been spent and in which villages, cities. You'll see how much abuse there was in the use of such funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29352	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. The law. The reasons for submitting the amendments are not superstitions, given that it is Article 13, but that the one who wants to rule lives in Serbia, which is Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and wants to become the majority owner of life in Serbia, is insulting the intelligence of those people who apply this law, as well as us MPs and certainly Serbian citizens, which would at least have the right to work. What is provided for in Article 13. A bill of law? It is said that Article 62 after Article 2 adds a new position 3 which reads: "The minister determines how total incomes and total expenditures for local authorities' vaults are reported. "This is covered in a unique way in relation to the control of budget implementation. As MP Petar Jojic said, budget inspections in Serbia are not doing their job, or are doing it selectively. When the presidents of the municipalities, Serbian radicals, demanded that budgetary control be sent to municipalities in which they were legally elected, Minister Mladjan Dinkic always pulled out that there were insufficient numbers of perpetrators. That's why they go where he decides and thinks budget controls should go. What is the essence of this Law on the budgetary system, changes and additions and budget rebalances in general? Try to secure as best possible positions for the election ahead and keep as many in power as possible. Someone said in the morning that Serbian radicals were telling an empty story, and it seems to me that he forgot the period when the ministers in the government, members of the SRS, defended this country during its bombing and rapidly restored the country in 1999 and 2000, while not taking pictures and not giving any pompous statements, but sought to destroy what was in the war as soon as possible and to ensure a better standard for Serbian citizens. The National Investment Plan is represented here, both in the field and in campaigns for local elections, as if now someone has brought money from their home or their inheritance trying to give Serbian citizens a better quality of life and to invest in that infrastructure. In fact, it's about the money that was received during the Mobtel sale. These were generations before us and this was created by this country, which we love above all else and for which we are here and for which no individual created. It is now trying to present that this government is doing a lot for Serbian citizens. Of course, it's not about saving, it's just what we got in one way and came up with those funds. The National Investment Plan did not enter, although Capital Investment Minister Velimir Ilic once said that building a tunnel through Proslopa is one of the strategically important projects that should be accessed. I'm linking this to the signing of yesterday's agreement in Banja Luka. We are now going to support the political elections, i.e. the two parties' campaign in Republika Srpska, and it was much more important to build that tunnel, as it stands in a proposal for a national plan and requirements and projects could be submitted by local self-government, NGOs and ministries. It was absolutely logical and quite justified for this project to enter the national plan, because it has strategic significance and in the best possible way it would connect the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, not to go to Banja Luka and sell political fog, as it was done yesterday in Banja Luka. In connection with the allocation of funds, Minister Dinkic said there was a delay in the allocation of funds in Bor, which was about 15 days, but yesterday was denied and fully responsible and it is true that it was a delay, in fact, of two and a half months. The president of the municipality of Bor, the Serbian Radical, Branislav Rankic, successfully overcame the period and there was no delay in paying for the personal incomes of the Bor municipality, i.e. local self-government, and all the plans and programmes envisioned by local self-government, headed by Branislav Rankic, to implement them. How did Mr. Rankic do that? By not stealing from the citizens of Bor and taking maximum care of the spending of those funds that were paid into the municipal budget. The question is why the authorities are being held and why they joined this National Investment Plan. In doing so, I want you to know that the Serbian Radical Party has nothing to do with building infrastructure, building roads and repairing, or investing in infrastructure in any part of Serbia. It's equally important to us every step of this country, but I can tell you that no priorities have been made. Yesterday we pointed out in the principle debate that no national strategy was done. I'm going to tell Mr. Secretary now that he's in, next. In the local governments in central Podrinj, there was not enough time and those involved in the exercise of power could not be the most qualitative way to delegate projects that would certainly be more important from the point of view of the needs of the citizens who live there, but as these projects they have now offered. It was a very short period, and these programs existed earlier. I am not going to talk about the follow-up work now, which is why 50% of these funds are said to be spent only next year, which is likely to be another additional problem. Today, the National Development Strategy, and with regard to the quality of that strategy, was to be held here in the National Assembly, lost its goal and therefore it can be said that certain ministers behave as if they were their own resources, so they use them where their local elections are most often. This is done with regard to the preservation of power, most often, in those places, at this point and because of the elections ahead. Serbian citizens have recognised it and will certainly not allow such fraud; neither the Serbian citizens nor the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29354	I thank Mr. Peric. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 15, which was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The Finance Committee did not accept the amendment. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29355	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could freely say that this is a semi-sad assembly (and I once said it was a sad gathering), because it is a dying parliamentary life, which the debate absolutely shows. We work in a strange way, the minister is occasionally present, most of it is not present, and we ask questions in which we cannot get answers. Today we are discussing amendments; we understand that it is an emergency procedure, so the session is called, but we do not have the government's answers to our amendments. This is possible under the Rules of Procedure, but this should be an exception and it is possible for some irrelevant laws that treat some minor issues for the state and society. So this is where you talk to deaf people and people who don't want to be heard. It is particularly interesting that certain MPs, I would say from a position above all, from most who rule Serbia, allow themselves to resent Serbian radicals when they discuss, say various things, allegedly not right, we have empty talks, we speak unargumented and the like. However, it is clear that these things are wrong and it is on the trail of totalitarianism and tyranny, of course, of the majority that is ruling. I'll move on to the amendment itself. In front of the Serbian Radical Party, I tabled an amendment to Article 15. Our proposal is to delete this member entirely. The question is, what does this member contain? When we discussed budget rebalancing in principle, including this National Investment Plan, and even the eighth revision of the Budgetary System Act, it says in itself enough that something is wrong or with the laws passed by the democratic authority since 2000, or something else, we have made it clear that we will not vote in favour of this law or the draft budget rebalance, because all the measures provided for by this law are not in the interest of Serbian citizens. The monetary policy led by the National Bank, the fiscal policy led by the Minister, and this brochure, which speaks of the National Investment Plan, are primarily in the interest of the next one - the payments of debts, the draining of the population to the last dinar and to the last drop of blood, in order to ensure the service of debts to the world, and no improvement in the standard of living of our citizens. We're having a deaf conversation, we're telling you that the average salary in Serbia is 26,000, and you're telling us it's good and it's good to live with. We tell you that in the White Palanca, the average personal income is 7,000 and that the consumer basket today, the calculation without the European standards you stand for, means no separation for sport and culture, just for food and what is most necessary, is 26,000 dinars. You're telling us again how good it is and that we're on our way to be okay. It's not like that, not even these measures you're proposing, not even this budget, show that our citizens are going to be okay. What happens to the one who's sick today and who's out of a job what you say will be better in five years? He needs to be better tomorrow, if he can't get better today. He who can offer such a thing to people will be a people's government, and he will be able to be proud of it. You've given us many economic indicators here. There were also data on what the European Commission's 2005 report tells you. Just quote it, so we don't quote it, so you'll see what they said about Mr. Kostunica's government. Furthermore, there is again a report by the European Bank and the International Monetary Fund, says corruption is booming in Serbia from 2002 to 2005, and that from two to four percent of gross national income, minimum, goes to corruption. Why do you keep your mouth shut about this? That's what your friends from abroad say. Please, the whole truth needs to be brought out. Article 15 has predicted again what we absolutely disagree with – that the Ministry of Finance and the minister control how budget funds are spent. Then he's divided this member into a member of 66th and a member of 66th. There's talk about the central harmonisation unit and internal control. Earlier, Mr. Jojic asked who controls how budgets are spent in Serbia -- no one. In a system that says to itself that it advocates legality and institutions are flagrantly violated both the Constitution and the laws. I'm going to set a concrete example so we don't tell empty stories, and that's for those who resent telling empty stories. In 2005, this parliament passed the State Audit Act, for the institutions for the revision. May 2005 was supposed to be formed organs that would control, I'm not going to list everything, what you really want to control in general today. The law, adopted by this parliament in 2005, clearly states that state auditors' control entities are all direct and indirect users of the republican budget and funds. I'm not going to read this provision any further. You keep quiet about it, that's how you suspend a law here that when it was passed here was approved and you all said it was European law, we have to support it. You did not implement it and you said it was a matter of the Assembly, as if we do not know that the Toy Assembly is in the hands of the government and that this parliament, this parliamentary majority of Serbian government maids. Maybe that's a good thing, I won't comment on it. That's how you deceive the people and say that's not what the Parliament wanted. [[Applause radically.]] It is not even the president of the Assembly's fault, it is clear to us, because it is out of his power – to impose the authority of the Assembly on this government. That's our reality. That's why we live in an impromptu world than democracy, from society; since 2000 there has been no better life, there is, of course, some relief. Look, when there were economic sanctions, it's normal to live harder, even when there was a bombing, it's normal to live harder. Now you have no sanctions, no bombings; you've got four billion euros in aid, and you've taken five or six billion credits, where you can see it, in these petty shifts, what are you doing? You beat up this people and tell stories. What our biggest cancer wound is, and the West already sees, it's corruption. You don't give up on it, you agree between yourselves, we don't touch each other, we don't take as much as anyone takes, there's no persecution, and that's why there's no fight against corruption, and who's convicted? You only caught the card, it's all his fault. Where are the rest of you, so I don't list it for you, because there are criminal charges against a bunch of others. What is privatisation, but one robbery, but let's not talk about it much. So, we're for two reasons, because there's a previous law that doesn't apply in this country, because here you all keep your mouth shut... The second reason, to tell you the truth, we don't trust you to control it all, not because of you personally, we don't see what these are mechanisms that will control you and restrain you in some intents, because they may exist, maybe they don't exist, that I don't speculate, but a man can make a mistake. How will you be controlled? You didn't predict it in this law, and that's why this isn't good, this needs to be erased, and it needs to be clear to the people, and that's why we're against this. Now I'm going to give you just one example, I'm a doctor, so I can get something out of health care, from this phenomenal marketing plan of yours for the next election called the National Investment Plan. You say this in it, at all, the budget, I said yesterday, it's completely transparent, and your budget is non-transparent, because nothing can be seen what money is going on, we haven't seen an analysis of what they've been spent on so far; you're making us rebalance the budget, you haven't explained how it's been spent, or where, and we can't see it. So how do you propose to be a serious European administration and government when you work like that? Just look at that budget that you gave as a book, which is so done, chaos and galatias, no European Parliament has such a budget or budget rebalance. This law is courteous and resembles one of the proposals we're talking about. That central budget you have, it's a shame. To go back to what I was saying, not to let the story be empty, to fill it with concrete facts, says here – the area of purchasing sanitary vehicles. I would just say before, please, this investment plan, it's one thing that's like the usual current investment maintenance, so capital investments and it's contained every normal budget in every country and then it's not called that budget by some super-name and some wise structure. So, this is about the ongoing investment maintenance of objects that are in charge of a particular ministry and, of course, capital investments that exist everywhere in the world and nothing new is. Therefore, no special name is required. It is an interesting thing, it says: The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, based on established priorities, has done a project of a national investment plan for the procurement of 20 vehicles for the transport of patients for haemodialysis and the purchase of 80 sanitary vehicles, and then the reanimobile is further said... Now comes the explanation – existing vehicles for the transport of patients for haemodialysis and reanimobiles available to healthcare institutions were purchased in the 1980s, with no car park being restored in the last few years. Man, if you read it, you can really say it's a disaster, because it hasn't changed that long, it's been shopping, so give it a faster or better buy, but you can't, because everything's transparent with us and it's all concentrated in the hands of a top. As with this member, you want to concentrate the power of the minister to give and control everything, so is medicine. But we read the press and the newspaper, according to this - 2.4.2003 (this will please Mr. President of Parliament to hear) His Royal Highness Prince Alexander II and Princess Katarina, with great success, gathered numerous friends at a voluntary dinner Thursday 27 March 2003 in Athens and collected 300,000 euros through donations to health institutions in Serbia-Montenegro, and they will be used to buy health cars and appliances. So in 2003, the car was bought. Next, a 2004 report by the European Agency for Reconstruction in Serbia, a 2004 bulletin, and says this: a certain Mrs. Kasicovic from Uzica says: 24 health protection institutes in Serbia have received the keys to new car brands of "opel korsa", as part of the European Union's effort to help healthcare institutions in Serbia run a European Agency for Reconstruction. We read further news in 2005, so he says -- Serbia now has 150 ambulances more than a year earlier, so in 2004. So, in 2004, 150 vehicles were bought, sanitary, in Serbia, so I wouldn't read any further. He says further, BETA, in Subotica a nice meeting, Mr Labus, and then there is Mrs Dulic and the health minister, according to the health minister, Hungary bought 150 new ambulances in 2003 and was proud of that number, and Serbia bought the same number of vehicles last year, while for this year she planned 50 new ones. So 150 and 50 is 200. I'll pick you up later at the end. And look, the minister is driving a car, so, you see, in a nice society, and it's said again -- the European Commission, you won't find it all over us that it's all published, says like this, 25 field vehicles, a mobile home of health. Not to put it all together, it's almost 300 vehicles, and it's been said that since the 1980s, it hasn't been invested in this fund. Then what are you doing? That's not right. It should have been fair, when you want to focus money somewhere, to say – so many and so many vehicles we have, so right, so wrong, the standards of the world are like that, and that's what we need, and there's no problem. Everything you do, it's all a fraud and a lie, and the situation in the health system is catastrophic. If I don't talk about it, there's time, God willing, somebody's gonna talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29356	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) I would just like to inform you, by Article 225 of Section 1, that, on several occasions, I am encouraging all of those parliamentary groups who have not submitted proposals for the establishment of the Council of the High Auditor for the following year. At the same time, I informed the National Assembly on 4 September, thanks to you MPs, the problem of all previous budgets has been overcome, so a tender for the formation of a commission to review and deliver to this National Assembly has finally been completed, you are absolutely right, to review all the budgets of the previous five years, thanks to the decisions voted by the National Assembly. The 15th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was submitted by Zivan Vladimirovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29357	These several members, at least according to the reasoning of the Bills and this text of reasons relating to Articles 16, 17 and 18, shall, however, make one whole with Article 15. It is some new phase of compliance with EU rules. In this general euphoria of harmonising our financial and budgetary regulations, Article 16 is practically proposed by a new member of 66a, who has its title - Internal Control. I must say, a member of the 66th of this original text of the applicable law also has provisions on internal control by the beneficiaries of the budget. There's been a slight change, not as important to me as it is to Article 15, which Mr. Momchilov was talking about. We're practically supposed to have a central harmonisation unit at the Ministry of Finance right now. Harmonization means synchronization, alignment. Now someone's asking a question, and what does that have to do with the finance ministry? What the Ministry of Finance is looking at, so it's so different from the beneficiaries of the budget that have the obligation to keep the prescribed records of accounting, accounting, etc. What's so important that it takes special harmonisation and between which harmonisations? Between opinions, the Ministry's views? Well, that's in the regulations. The rules apply. We can't in applying some regulation to each other to agree on how we're going to apply the regulation, what we're going to agree on, what we're going to harmonize. If you're looking at really individually 15, 16, 17 and 18, then those members can really ask a question, so what do you suggest by amending it when it's already covered by the law, so it turns out that we're against the internal control institute. No, we're not against that institute. That institute already exists in law. This type of harmonisation is unacceptable to us, because you can see how difficult it was for the promoter that he even had to submit amendments to that member of the bill. These amendments represent a legal-technical order, a more transparent form of representation of the tasks to be carried out by the Authority, defined in the way proposed by these amendments and amendments. You see here at article 16. The government has come forward to propose that direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, the organisation of compulsory social insurance and public enterprises established by the Republic or local authorities, legal entities established by these public undertakings, i.e. legal persons - in which the Republic, i.e. local government, has direct or indirect control over more than 50 per cent - this 50 per cent, is the government's amendment intervention to its draft law. I don't know what decentralisation means, the financial independence of local self-government units if this is what it's like, a team before we have one particular kind of revision, it's already another instance, which comes at the end. After the financial year is over, all possible reports are filed, then the revision should give its view of what was happening, how the funds were used, whether it was all recorded properly, etc. I think there's been a kind of confusion here, in the story of decentralisation, we've got a completely different situation, so we have absolute control. Now I have to go back to what I said this morning. If you leave all these instruments, or they pass in the amendments and additions of this law, then why do you need a criminal act provision? If someone were to be called to criminal responsibility, then all those in the chain before him, before that responsible person, would have to be arrested first, convicted, because this one failed internal control, internal audit, etc. What should we do if an act adopting the final account is adopted, I purposely state the act, at the level of the Republic is the law on the final account, at the level of local self-government, it is the decision on the final account, in the organisation of compulsory insurance, it is also some decisions, and only because of the obsolescence, which does not occur so quickly, is later determined by budgetary control that there are elements of criminal responsibility, and all of these maltenes were under the control of the Ministry of Finance. I'm afraid that if so many provisions are put in place, which at first look seem rigorous, dangerous, scary, scary, that divorce control, that literally avoids the personal responsibility of the responsible person. It can always be called to an instance that was obliged to control. There's only one difference compared to that example, like the Development Fund, which also gives some of its loans, allegedly takes some program, so it's an estimate that it's a good program, so it places a loan through this new bank, so I see now you've shut it down, you've changed the name, etc. Then comes the time to realize the mortgage. Or, it's not a mortgage, it's just a bank and a fund waiting for the borrower to fall into total delay. They provided their claim through a mortgage. Why? Because the immovableity, which is burdened with mortgages, is three times the amount of the loans, and so it is appropriate for them not to settle the claim immediately, but to burden the immovableity after interest, because the banks earn interest. They don't make a lot of money on the main line. They're interested in growing interest. The state is not such a subject. It works completely the other way. So can we talk about some kind of self-government independence, can we even talk about the European Charter of Local Self-Government if we have such provisions? What's happened since 2001 with our public finances. No one, at least I haven't heard from this pay phone that someone has disputed the right and duty of the state to control the intentional use of funds, above all that is provided on the basis of public income. Nobody. Everyone insists on using the funds on purpose. Everyone insists on paying special attention not to waste these funds. Why? Because they are not the means of government, or any individual, but something that represents our unity. You see, this fight against this state corruption has started, and through public procurement, and the change of the Law on Payments, and the control of money laundering, and not to order all financial regulations that have been passed in the meantime. I claim that no regulation has been applied objectively, and provisions on the selectivity of the application of regulations and well-being are contained in the regulations themselves. If according to the Public Procurement Act, the Ministry can give an opinion to tell someone, come on, you don't have to go to that kind of public procurement, but you can do it with a direct contract, then the question is, what is the law? Who's he gonna break into? Believe me, they're the main ones that are protected. It would be good today in the context of this story of internal control, which has its own justification, which exists in our existing law, but there must be no provision that squeamishes itself, suggests the possibility of abuse. How can someone apply the regulation if it's advertised, and the election campaign is kind of an ad, and it says, "I'll pay you, I'll make sure, I'll make it happen." Or, as it was, the one in Alexandrovac wrote on posters - it was provided by Mladjan Dinkic. Maybe Mladjan Dinkic doesn't know about it, as he doesn't know that Boris Tadic was listening to him three years ago, and Djindjic. He heard it later, though. When Baby was listening to him, so we set up Karic with the paperwork on the TV show, but that's yours, you're in the coalition now, and I don't want to argue with you. That's your problem. The law, norms must be applied in an objective, general way. Every minister who says - I provide that and that, immediately disqualify himself, is no longer a minister. He's identified himself with a function, but come on with a function, but with means. It's dangerous when you identify with the means. I'm not going to tell you about this data right now, about the cost of official travel, by economic classification 422, we'll probably do it tomorrow in the context of budget rebalances, but I promise the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they'll be uncomfortable when they see in mass what the funds are planned in 2006 and, I must tell you, on the basis of such a plan, you don't need internal control at all. So the planned funds allow for everything and everything, no matter what you take for the official trip, the purpose is consumption. If there was a need for someone to go, it doesn't matter anymore, the funds are planned. Internal Affairs has lost its meaning. You in the Assembly have an official who has not been at work in the National Assembly since April 20 days, five-six thousand euros have been taken for official travel abroad. It has nothing to do with the president. Don't call the president. It's a professional service. Do you know how many of these you have in the ministries? They walk, language experts, make some communications, implement standards, and they can't even read what's written there. It's dedicated, what do you need internal audit for, internal control? You don't need it. How do you send internal control to control the cabinets of the Prime Minister? His cabinet will spend 70 million dinars this year and Vice President's office 34 million. Take and control the non-existent Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Vuk Draskovic. Control diplomatic and consular representations. They're so good that the woman doesn't want to go abroad with the husband who was elected ambassador, she wants to stay in Serbia. What can internal control do to help? There's nothing he can do, but again, as Mr. Momchilov is searching the Internet, there will be reports of these abroad. Is that true what they write? I don't think so. Maybe they're washing their fates, but they're drowning with these here, 35% is always left in their pockets, and you know it. A great banker complained to me that he had a carpenter from Switzerland who was sent to control that bank. Turns out he doesn't even have a German language, even though it's from a German canton. In addition to 10,000 euros in monthly salary, the poor man is ruined with happiness when he hears he will go to the official lunch on that day and 50 euros will be bought by someone. What are European standards? It's the lamb brigades. It's already known and seen in us. We had it during Stambolic, during a socialist self-government society, during the Socialist International, which ruled Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29358	Thank you. Otherwise, it's not that congregation. The government has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovanovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29359	Mr. President, before I begin to explain why my colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, submitted this amendment, to ask you, given that today you have given us a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, here is a colleague of Radeta laughing, but it would be really not sad, it would be funny, how you imagined to carry out parts of individual sessions in other rooms. Will you send us to other halls on an eeny-pee, I mean MPs who are present, and what will be the extra sessions that you will hold outside this assembly building? Think about it, I'm just giving you creamworth, because otherwise you have plenty of time, you won't be able to start tomorrow at 12:00 a.m. session with that agenda, but they're more than interesting, funny these suggestions, so if the MPs haven't looked at it, let them look at what's a special session, what are the parts of the session and how you came up with this fantastic idea of tone and stenographically recording the meetings of the Administrative and Legislative Committee, and the rest doesn't matter what they say. I am telling you all because the amendment of my colleague Milovan Radovanovic is related to the new chapter, i.e. the title above Articles 67 and 67, which introduces internal audit, ex-control, and later amends the Law on the Budgetary System as a special member, and since it is only a different form here, are about the same powers of the Republic Government, the Resorship Ministry and local self-government units, then this is a good opportunity, because fellow Radovanovic has asked that Article 17 be deleted, to discuss it, Mr Minister, what internal controls and internal budget inspections have been doing so far. First, the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance, I am saying this because it is now separated, and it was once joined as a whole and to explain to us why your ministry did not respond to dozens of calls from the president of municipalities elected on the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, to establish who robbed and stole the citizens of the municipality before they came to power. In the municipality of Arandjelovac, the elected president of the municipality, Dr Radosav Svabic, took over by the citizens in 2004 found a really chaotic situation. Since we are well-known for being people who respect professionals and people who are employed in the municipality, so is the head of the budget and finance portfolio, who had run the business before, but whose hands were tied under previous authority, he was left to do the job in the Arandev municipality. However, in addition to several memos sent to your ministry, it has never occurred that the budgetary inspection comes and determines that funds have been spent, especially in the planning of certain projects in the construction company. In the town of Kragujevac, the newly formed government in 2004, then with elected and unfortunately still current Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic, promised that because of the various abuses of this yellow company, the branch of the Democratic Party in Kragujevac, and because of the money laundering, because of the misuse of funds from credit and budgets, you heard that we mentioned this data repeatedly this morning, that Kragujevac is currently in charge of 13-14m euros, imagine what that amount is and what a burden for such a city that is burdened with so many problems, social first of all, and no one has ever come to carry out a budget audit and control. There are probably examples that even some others, who were selected on the lists of groups of citizens, the presidents of the newly established authorities asked for it, but once upon a time, it was in the first half of 2005, when I asked you, you said that the Ministry of Finance did not have enough people to do the job, that they were not motivated enough, that their small salaries and that there was always a possibility that through internal control or through an external audit, the involvement of an auditor who was authorized to do the job had a license to do so. You know very well that the same situation was in Novi Sad, that the abuse of predecessors to the current radical government, above all what he voted, allegedly voted from Thessaloniki for the Labour Act of Borislav Novakovic and his friends from these autonomial groups, had ended up in a drawer and that these people had never, as these lawyers would have said, been processed. What can I say about the Zemun municipality? In the municipality of Zemun, there was an incredible robbery from the five-octobaric coup to the arrival, i.e. thank God and for the happiness of Zemunac, until the return of Serbian radicals to power, to the election of Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic as president of the municipality. Only one man, a certain Simonovic, doesn't matter what his name is, one of the most defamation and lies he has uttered at the expense of the president of the SRS, professor of Dr Vojislav Seselj and the radical authority who raised the municipality of Zemun on its feet from 1996 to 2000, is currently where - on the run. He embezzled no less, stole from the 3.5m-euro municipality budget. Did the inspection ever, the internal control of Belgrade's city came to the Zemun municipality to look into and see what the predecessors were doing. Did you do this in the Kingdom municipality before an initiative was launched to recall the former president, now former president of the municipality. Did you do this in Gornji Milanovac, did you do it in any city in Serbia, in Leskovac, because of the fact that, I believe, the future president of the municipality of Leskovac, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, as president of the assembly, has distanced himself, or pointed to all the abuses that he has openly suspected, both he and the group of SRS councilors, that they happened there. So that's not what it was. So if you were to write it, it's a dead letter on paper. Do you know why? Because other parts of the Law on the Budgetary System, which is Djelic's invention, give them the possibility, that wasn't the case, Mr. Minister, until 2000, to commit numerous abuses and robberies. Are you, as finance minister, here you have great powers, to stop the transfer of budget funds in case local self-government does not respect the laws, and the Law on Local Self-Government and other positive legal regulations, are you at all times safe, as finance minister, in large cities, and it is small, let it be with a budget of 40 to 50 million, but let's say in the city of Belgrade, in Kragujevac, which has over four billion dinars of budget revenues this year, that every dinar is spent on purpose? Of course you can't be sure, because your budget inspection isn't going in there and it's not doing that job. And this internal audit under this Article 67. The law, that the local self-government body does so, means nothing again. So who sets them up? The ruling structure in that city. What is behind specialized services and specialized contracts, or special services, nobody knows? I am the chairman of our party's parliamentary group in Kragujevac, and we are the strongest opposition to Stevanovic's authority and the greatest critics to the previous democratic party, we have never received any reports in which we will analytically, by definition, see how these funds have been spent. Specialized services, travel expenses and contract services, I think it's a four-and-two-two, don't hold my word, I don't have the Kragujevac City budget right now, who can control it? Hundreds of millions of dinars of money can be abused, kidnapped and stolen. The permanent budget reserve, so just look at the last case, with us there was a recent budget change due to the fact that the city again, i.e. Stevanovic, was in debt with 245 million dinars. How can you control it and stand behind it? And you are the one, or your Ministry, who approves the local self-government unit to be in charge. And you're looking at what's the upper limit, but you're not looking at it, and you're not taking everything into account, because when one city, or the head of the budget and the financing of that city, or the municipality delivers a chart or leaves the details of what the debt is, you have to keep an eye on the interest that this city pays on all these debts. And who's gonna pay it back. Here's the case, I'm deliberately potentialting it, not just because I'm from Kragujevac, but because it's one of the worst examples of possible borrowing and governmental activities. Which one of you is willing to run your home budget like that. The interest rate in total debt is over 30%. These banks are now being praised, so there's not one that's going to show up on the media and offer some interest credit over 30%. It goes from 20 to something for these cash loans, you come in, you come out, and you're done, 27 on an annual basis, depending on what bank it is, and over 30%, it's nowhere. Then you wonder what Dr. Paja Momchilov just said to you, if you're from the local community, from local self-government, from the way to eradicate corruption. It has never been completely eradicated in any society, but let's say, as in Russia, which is now the case, that is, after six years of Putin's reign has been brought to a minimum. When citizens were asked in 2004, what is the biggest problem for them and why they are bitter about local self-government and government at all, they say, it's because of the kidnapping and robbery, and in 68% of the people said that, besides the lack of self-government, the misery that is on all sides is present, that they have no job, that the small salaries, that the groceries are expensive, that the utility services are expensive, that the electricity is a high price, they say that's what hurts them the most. By law and by the dissatisfaction of inspection services, you can't expect, and without sanctions, that's what's going to happen. It was easy in that enthusiasm after the burning of the Assembly and the TV building, on the wings of the five-octobaric coup, to wave some papers and nonsense with no meaning directed against the ministers of the SRS. Afterwards it was all thrown away and it fell into the water because it was seen to be all nonsense. Now that there's concrete evidence and stuff, here's to this Simonovic from Zemun, what's going on. He sold his godfather the house, one house tried to sell two or three times, cheated on who knows how many people in the municipality, 3.5 million robbed from the budget, and you kept quiet before that, and none of you ever answered or answered, just because it was your coalition partner in the previous government. Where are all those ministers now and do they bear responsibility? Who'd they make the bills to? Here says the president of the assembly will get the conditions. And what does post-festum mean now? Here, as soon as tomorrow, and Djelic, and Vlahovic and the company from that yellow company, they're now well housed in these banks, they can get on a plane and go, like this Simonovic, and you have no idea where they are, and you're looking for them, and as you don't know where they are, you don't know where Bogoljub Karic is. And they came as experts, this former friend of yours. You went on vacations together, winterings, celebrating new years, what you didn't do until that duel and that fight, that former friend of yours, Bozidar Djelic. He came in, as an expert, he's nice, he's good, he's gonna help the state, he's sleeping with his aunt, he's got nowhere to sleep, he's got nothing to eat, his aunt's making cakes, she's cooking him, she's washing him, she's ironing him. That's all the mob. Did you ever say anything about their abuses? What, you're saying that they're nice people and they're not mobsters, they're the ones who robbed the state and the people. That's why this law and this, without concrete application, means nothing to you. We're here, and we'll always be there to brand every robbery. You know, what month awaits us taking power and responsibility for running the state, our Serbian radicals. That's right, pal, you're a nice guy and you're a good guy and you're noding your head, you know that. The most important thing is that the key thing we're going to fight is the basic principle of the operation of the SRS, crime and corruption. It's something we don't forgive, whoever it is. Trust us on the word that that's how it's going to be, the citizens know that because that's the question that hurts them the most, and they trust us the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29360	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Replica, please, Mrs Miroslava Gusic. I assume it's about mentioning the So Arandelovac, whose president you are, in that sense personally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29361	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the honourable fellow MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29362	I'm sorry, Mrs. Gusic, we've received assurances that no objection is personal to you and what's said applies in principle, not in person, so there's no reason to deny it, if you agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29363	Let me, it's not pointless, I think the words spoken from this pay phone have devalued every speech. Of course, stupidity is allowed, but lies and lies are not. It has been said for the third time, I have indeed abstained masochistly from responding to the findings expressed as a glorification of the work of the president of the Municipality of Arangelovac, who is a member of the SRS. With all due respect to any comment, I must now merely state the truth and justice for the sake of fact. When the gentleman in question came to the post of president of the municipality, he found 51 million, not chaos and a call to the budget commission. Next thing you know, we have a budget rebalance coming up on Tuesday. I also have to realize that it is a kind of chaos in the management of the municipal budget. Let me just say that on December 29th, when the 2006 Budget Projection was adopted, a complete list of local communities, and urban and rural communities, 17 were left out, and this year there is a payment for rural meat communities, meaning, by closing their giro accounts, and by means that are non-existent. So, I'm just saying, if we're talking about inspections, we should allow, I totally agree with you, maybe you're the ones who are absolutely calling for a budget inspection, that where there's indications that the budget and the appraisals you're talking about here on a daily basis, they're not respected in accordance with what's been adopted by the basic budget, that they really need to be controlled. Another personal impression. In a man it really causes nausea constantly to advocate honesty, of course, of his own, and of other people's crime. For me, if you will allow me to finish, the paradigm of your honor young colleague Nemanja Sarović, who, as registered in Vranj, was born on Doræol, and grew up in Terrazi, or vice versa, did not matter what was more, that he managed to charge 1,600,000 dinars. Probably no kid knows what 1,600,000 dinars mean! All the excuses of your Gansek, what is the place of residence, and what is the place of residence, I think they lose in terms and importance. I said, the paradigm of radical honesty is exactly those tiny 1,600,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29364	This was a replica. I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure. I ask everyone who gives information to compare them with each other. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29365	The elected president of the G17 party should know that the previous lady who spoke was absolutely expelled from all the functions of the party in the municipality she lives in and where, unfortunately, she is still chairing the municipal assembly. I am not surprised by the attitude of your fellow political party to which you belong and who has led you into parliamentary benches, because in view of this performance of yours, awe and hate speech, as counterpart Krasic, who is spreading from the assembly speaker, I do not know of a person who could cooperate with you. Ma'am, instead of sitting on your ears, and not listening well and misrepresenting yourself in what I was saying, and it wasn't personal to you, first of all, there's your impreciseness, ignorance, I won't say stupidity, because politeness and good education doesn't allow me to speak from a pay phone, which is why we've been working well known, unlike you, and you're known personally as Miroslava Gusic, who still presides the municipal assembly, by the way you do it. First, ma'am, since you said you were calling a meeting of the municipal assembly for Tuesday, you haven't yet notified the council, and you know what's going to happen on the agenda, the committees don't know, try to figure out what's general, and what's a single act, try to fit in a bit of legal form, so you don't say anything and people don't laugh at you, the committees at SO Arangelovac. As far as these funds are concerned, which you say are used by local communities, when you're out to talk about it, you should say that the most successful local communities in which the government has an SRS in the municipality of Arangelovac, the first and second local community, Bukovik and the president of the municipality, are those in every way you're obstructing. You know what you're sitting for and why you're still the president of the municipal parliament? Because the abuses of the law are committed by Zoran Loncar and by the government of which you are an accompaniment, or a pendant. If he had kept the letters of the law and had responded to the performances of Dr. Radosav Krabić and the SRS parliamentary group in the manner in which the law prescribed it, you couldn't sit here and talk about it now. Now that you're about to invent something else, third or third, or I don't know, you're probably under the influence of the third point or the other point. Maybe that's why they kicked you out of G17 in Arangelovac, because you're at a point -- eating and drinking, roasting by choice and affinity and heel -- I don't know what came to you after eating and drinking at all, so far you've come to your own party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29366	The replica of Ms. Jovanovic's presentation, which called for the Rules of Procedure. I guess it was a false statement of facts or a misreading. Here you are, MP Miroslava Gusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29367	Since members of the SRS are calling for spying, I suppose that part of the activity is probably close to many others, not only to the one who has personally declared himself. So for the first time I've heard I was kicked out of the G17 Plus party. And when does he take my shift? You'll wait a little while. As far as the agenda and the calls are concerned, it's all neatly addressed, but you haven't been able to be informed, so much so that you know that it's all on time and neatly done, as still a valid president of the assembly. You are so well-trained and competent that the whole of Serbia admires your decency! I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29368	Here you go, Mr. Perry, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29369	Mr. Chairman, I asked for a word in the light of Minister Dinkic's presence here. The question I want to ask and what I'm interested in is about the minister, so please give me your word when the minister returns to the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29370	Any other MPs? Thank you, Mr. Perry. The government has submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29371	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, by proposing that Article 18 be deleted. Namely, he refers to budgetary control. This Article 18, whose erasure I have proposed, should, through inspections, ensure the control of the application of the law in the field of material and financial operations, as well as the dedicated use of the funds of beneficiaries of budgetary resources, as well as organisations, businesses, economic operators and other legal entities. As proposed by this member, whose removal I have proposed, this basic function of budgetary inspection will not be realized, and we are particularly opposed to the introduction and formation of a local inspection service, and I believe that it is an absolute legal failure, because the inspectors who will set up, establish and control local authorities will not carry out inspection, and especially of public enterprises, which are located in all municipalities, or localities, or a team in enterprises where boards are appointed by a local assembly, and directors, and which are now, where the government of this DOS majority, a property of corruption, crime and practically local government will not be in the interest to expose this criminal litter. That's the case in Panchev with the city's planning directorship, and I believe there are cases like this all over our beautiful Serbia, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29372	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. Is there anyone else after the same? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that it wasn't just the goal of promoting the National Investment Plan, but to show that there was something else going on, so this internal audit institute was introduced. As already, I hope, you know, there are good laws, there are bad laws, laws that are enforced, laws that don't apply. For good and bad laws, the majority of the congregation is most often to blame, and the laws that are not implemented are to blame. This Article of the 18th and 68th basic law states that the tasks of the budgetary inspection are carried out by the Ministry, with the aim of inspection of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, organisations of compulsory social security, public undertakings established by the Republic, where the participation is more than 50% owned by the state. Article 2 is said to say - the local authorities' competent executive body shall establish a local inspection and audit service. Now, explain to me those of you who wrote this law, and what is the authority of the local authorities? Come on, somebody tell me. The Executive Board has been abolished, we have a municipal council, but it has only an advisory role, possibly when forming or proposing budget to the local assembly. Who is this executive authority? Don't you think maybe the president of the municipality? An individual? Your technical law isn't good either. And what it looks like when the president of the municipality exercises power, not everyone, there are also good, bad, capable, incompetent, honest, and thieves. Now imagine the president of the municipality who's a thief, and he's inspecting the work of budget users. And he's the one who started the local inspection and audit service. It can also be in Belgrade, Bogdanovic, I think he has gas stations, and he doesn't know they're his, so Smiljko Kostic, and he didn't even know they were likely to be women, or he didn't know he was married, but good. There are next examples, let's say - the presidents of the municipalities have their own private audits. And that's what I was talking about. It happens in just one municipality where local elections are now being called. Prior to the disbanding of the municipality, municipality president Živorad Nastic hired his private auditor to review budget spending by local self-government. Then he waited for the local assembly to disband, because it was the work of the local congregation, and on the provisional authority he pushed through the report that was adopted. And the first to raise the hand of the interim body president from the Democratic Party of Serbia. Now as far as budgetary inspection is concerned and how the ministry does it, the same local self-government has asked for a budget inspection by the ministry, the spending of SO Frogs' budget funds. Never has that budgetary inspector visited that local self-government, because G17 plus protected one criminal, on the one hand. On the other hand, the municipal council was formed, where the G17 and DSS raised their hands to adopt a report and an opera of funds that were illegally spent. G17 gets the place of manager in that community. It is a man who works in the municipality, and already has a job, and receives two salaries, although it is one small and poor municipality. For the matter to be even greater, and how impertinent it is in violation of the law and non-intentional spending of funds, it is seen that budget funds are being spent as sponsorships to the sports organisations that have been shut down. By February 6th, the MUP shut down some sports company called "Youth" or whatever it is called. From February 6th to August 31st, the SO Žabari budget paid 400,000 dinars. Who? Someone who doesn't exist. It doesn't exist - you can check who doesn't believe. It was issued by the Ministry of the Interior, deleted from the register, we can show you how the money went from the budget. Now answer me that question, how do you think this is coming to life, that it really works and that the funds are protected from accidental consumption. As long as you protect thieves, this law is not worth it. Now the question is, why are you protecting them? Do you have anything to do with them? You probably have some good reason why. Is it fear of losing power, is it fear that it might be the SRS that is going to investigate and audit your business, that you have spent budgets. It seems to me that this congregation majority is the greatest fear, but not fear of losing power, but responsibility for what you did while you were in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29374	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Alexander Djordjevic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29375	As the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see, the majority of the objections we make, among other things, and these amendments, relate primarily to local self-government and how it is placed in our legal system. It was wrongly planted on purpose to cause as much chaos as possible in local self-government units. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. The municipal assembly goes one way, the president of the municipality goes to the other, and the ministries, one, two and three, which are the most competent to observe in some way the work of the local self-government unit, have free hands and are very selectively able to act, and depending on the degree or scale of selectivity, is such a degree and such a proportion of the legality of the units of local self-government. All this is happening in the euphoria of decentralisation, and I don't know how a decentralisation project would fit into something covered by Article 19. It's a bill of law. I have to say, that matter has already been regulated. There's some details here. It concerns solutions to acts and measures that may take budgetary inspection. This is classified as three completely new members that are added, 68a, 68b and 68v. The government has tabled an amendment to this member of the bill and has added something that is missing, as regards the application of the Public Debt Act at the level of local self-government. What does that look like? "If there is an inspection procedure (it should write inspection controls) to establish illegality, the budgetary inspection shall impose measures on them to remove them and take other procedures established by law. “ The following Article 68b: “If the beneficiaries of the budget, the organisation of compulsory social insurance and public undertakings referred to in Article 67(1) of this Law do not act after the resolution of the budgetary inspection, the finance minister may issue an order to suspend the transfer of the budget in the current period, except for the non-intentional amount of funds imposed on them by the final resolution of the budgetary inspection. “ Just to remind you that there is this law on the financing of local self-government that you provided that at the level of local self-government there are similar bodies in charge of this job, and some interpretations may conclude that this refers to a republican level. I'd like to draw attention if you don't have an answer to the question that can be asked, given the fact that it's happening in certain units of local self-government. I'll take the example of a very successful Jagodina municipality. It has become a success since the owner of this television came, which can be advertised suddenly. You see, when Karic was so advertised, you shut down his television, but you don't close this TV, even though it's advertised right on the angro. He built a zoo, and now he's prescribing every private in Jagodina, and it seems to me to the surrounding area, as much as he has to pay to maintain that zoo. If you have a coffee shop, you have to buy two tickets for a year. I don't know how it's deployed to large, small and medium-sized enterprises, but since it has great abilities, there's still no record of more than one case in his party that hasn't been beaten. He beats everything in his party, except one he hasn't beaten yet. That's how he seduces order. Maybe that's the way it should be in his party, Unity, I don't know his name. All I know is that the late Vlajko Stojljkovic has longed to arrest him, however, someone forbade him to arrest what he was putting on the head of those socks. What's your Ministry doing here? His zoo is not a private institution, it is funded and it enters public revenues. It's not his private. How does he finance himself? Why don't you send some control or inspection over there? You can interpret this as an insolence and a joke. Now I'm going to move on to a serious thing. In a desire to address the problem of water supply and sewerage in the municipality, all possible actions are being taken, but the issue of primary water security should probably be resolved. There's probably some problems, but I'm not talking about it. Certainly these problems need to be solved. What do we do with municipalities that are so in debt in one financial year that the next few budgets can't pay off those debts? What do we do with these municipalities? What do we do with such community presidents? I'm not saying it's not in the citizens' interest, I'm just telling you that every president of the municipality can do the same job. But he takes a great commitment, a great burden on his budget, and is not able to have a favored position with at least two or three ministers in this government. How, for example, the capital investment minister can reject the president of the Jagodin municipality when they perform together in the elections. He says, bro, pay, if we pave this street, we get so many votes, and if we pave this street, so many votes. Of course he'll make money. But why are you covering this bill with this purposeless spending of funds? Since the whole bill you've passed, we haven't submitted amendments to several members. And we made a mistake. We should have submitted the amendment and asked to delete everything other than what you stated in item 1, since it was an earlier remark. We missed that at the speed. These few members were to remain and remain a member of the criminal offence, as a warning to Zoran Stojkovic to change the Criminal Law urgently and to impose a special criminal act, the accidental use of budget funds. Why this crime? For the public to finally know that so far there was no such crime in our legal system, but that you were persecuting for abuse of official position, and you couldn't possibly provide elements of being a criminal, but that's why, through radio, via television, through newspapers, you're muddying people. You wrote to Todorovic a criminal report, and even for something signed by Aleksandar Milutinovic, who was the minister of the SPO in the transitional government, you know, so you picked it up on all the talambas. What are you doing? In every unit of local self-government, what are you doing? Now explain to me what the mechanism is on the republican level, as this member refers to these beneficiaries of the budget, how it will protect itself if the order given by the minister under Article 68b and 68v brings a solution and if the minister is wrong. Which mechanism remained available to them. How do you protect yourself? Also, to answer my question, what good is it if that protection comes after three months? The beneficiary of the budget was denied funds. It can't work. Is it the Ministry of Finance's task to block the activities of a state body? How can you block the PIO Fund, because of something that some inspector has concluded is a non-intentional consumption. Can you explain to me how you can do that? There's nothing you can do. That's why in the first place you said - yes, it can, it doesn't have to, it can. Then that's how you show the ministry's relationship, the government's relationship as a proposing to one of the institutes that you're proposing to us here. What's the point if it won't apply everywhere. What's the point? It's not clear to me at all, I don't know if any reasonable man can understand what's proposed. Who's proposing? He who leaves the government in a few hours, then, after that, if some elections are held, some censorship will pass, and he will enter the government, but Mladic is not delivered again. Then how are you going to do it? You arrest him, you see he was with Tadic, and with these in 2001-2002, so they didn't arrest him. And on Sunday, you will arrest him, you from the G17 Plus, who are to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. I don't know if you heard what Judge Moloto said to the witness, Macuri, when he pointed out, testified that the Serbs were a constituent people, so Tudjman came and threw them out, and he said that you didn't pick up and go to Belgrade. It's your message that comes here every day in Belgrade. Where the hell are we from? Explain to us. We don't have a spare. I killed myself explaining two days to tell you we don't have a backup position. Where do you want us to go? You couldn't go with the yellows, now you can go with the yellows. You said they were thieves, that they were stealing, and that Vlahovic, and that Djelic, so he won't come to his funeral, as it was, don't mention his mother to me. Now you're going back together. What is that, a democratic block? These European standards! This has nothing to do with European standards. I don't know what's embarrassing you. So, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if you're watching this, pay attention, it's back at the part of preparing a big scam. You saw for yourself, there's a two-man in the Republic of Republika Srpska Dodik-Cavic, here's not a two-man without a helm, but without a head, Tadic-Kostunica. To fool it a little bit more if it can and everything is a European standard. You promote those standards from provision to provision. So whoever steals, then goes to Zabel is a thief, and this is yours completely legal, democratically stolen. Tomorrow we will inform the citizens how much money this year will be spent on official travel and special services. We can still open up budget rebalances, see, item by item, and immediately imagine how much that would cost, that is, in medicines, schools, kindergartens, employees, increasing social protection, etc. But this power won't. They care more about statistical success than they care about life in Serbia. Life in Serbia is only interesting for the elections. Did you hear him open his heart yesterday - I have to help you, my father is from the south. It's state policy, where my father came from. I'm not talking about your father, I'm talking about the father of the current minister, you probably watched, the nation laughed, it's this pit-bull financial therapy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29376	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sluzzard.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment proposing to amend this article into four positions, we Serbian radicals propose to change this member into four positions, but it's not just erasing, as you comment, but erasing this article makes more sense than keeping it this way. Why does it make sense to delete? I'll give you a few reasons. This budgeting you're proposing is so transparent that you yourself are aware of it. But what is there is, you have a majority and you will vote it, and that law will be handed down until the Serbian Radical Party comes to power, and that is already visible and very close. You're talking about some accumulation of funds, and apparently this law won't allow that accumulation. All of your financial accumulates are artificial forms and they were introduced without real work and production. As much as it's gonna cost us, no one knows yet. Your employers are preparing this people to be a consumer and humble society. We have repeatedly requested reports of budget spending, and you have failed to deliver it to us today in any form whatsoever. Now you've reportedly prepared an independent house, which will inform us by your standards and wishes and probably the public, that everything you've done so far has been in accordance with the law. Well, it's not like that. When are you going to punish yourself with this law? Never. With this proposed law, you've been doing corrections and finishings for the seventh time, and you call yourself experts. That's ridiculous. If we transferred it to some production cycle, it would be a shrimp and I'd call this law "scissor law." For citizens, this law is collateral damage. So I suggest that this member be deleted and more than that. With this law, you want to legalize all the money you've spent so far, we know and we keep it public. That's what you call it. Asphalting and promises by local self-government, it is the famous Velina "choder list". Some Irish variant is mentioned in this national investment plan. I think the proposer has gone as far in this variant as Ireland is far from Serbia in all these areas on which the proposer wants to impose a modern and European law. Due to all of these above comments, I suggest that you be a member of the 20th. The budget system law is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29378	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Four, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29379	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete this Article 22. Article 22 of the amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act reads as part 7. Budget operations, title above Articles 72 and 72 are deleted. The SRS recognized the fraud with the amendment and addition of the Budgetary System Act, with this political pamphlet National Investment Plan, which should fool citizens for these local elections that are now on October 1st and to deceive citizens for extraordinary parliamentary elections and elections at all levels following the adoption of the new constitution. The introduction of these bodies that are supposed to control the changes and additions of this law on the budgetary system, the central harmonisation unit, is probably this term taken over by Europe, I mean harmonisation, internal control, internal audit and budgetary inspection, which has existed so far in this law, which has not controlled the spending of budget funds at neither the local nor the Republic level, and through the adoption of these provisions of this law, with these bodies that need to control all budgetary resources and users, should be amnested all of what has been done backwards in a few years, abuses in the use of the funds of the life of the Republic of Serbia, the republican public enterprises, the budgets of local self-government and many funds of municipal and local public enterprises. Now with this law and this provision of Article 22, by erasing Article 72 of the basic law and by proposing a new Article 73, where the Treasury Administration is given the highest power in financial matters and within the Ministry of Finance. All that is provided for by the Treasury Administration to do, in fact, with the Director of the Treasury and the entire Treasury Administration, which is within the finance ministry, will control all finances in the state of Serbia. Not the way it would be normal and logical, but that under my control, probably, expecting this so-called. The democratic bloc, DSS, G17 plus, those who are in co-habitation with them, DS and this SPO, who declared themselves a democratic party and a democratic bloc, and some people, Palma, I don't know who else will stick to it, probably Keba, because he sings well, and Vela, and I don't say any more, as Corba writes in his songs. But it won't go away. I am also sure on October 1st, because what Velja Ilic managed to deceive the citizens of the Kingdom municipality clearly proved that the citizens were deceived and deceived in the King. It's been eight months, and out of a billion and a half dinars, road asphalting, pasarella, football playgrounds, water lines, sewers, bypasses -- there's nothing. But now he's trying through the supposed National Investment Plan to predict those funds for the King as well. What Velimir Ilic was doing in February, and part of the January election campaign, which was taken next to a well in the village of Popovici, was paid from the Kraljevo municipality's budget reserves. It was this current president, Milos Babic, who signed the solution, 800 and some thousand to some private from Kragujevac for one well, and 800 to some thousands for the other. That's democratic. We had the opportunity to accompany us, as representatives of the SRS parliamentary group, as the current president, with a coalition of the democratic bloc, solves problems in the Kingdom municipality, and unfortunately it does not solve them in any way, it has been chaos and it has been chaos, and now it is a total mess in the function of that coalition. The proof that they are causing enormous damage to the citizens of the Kingdom municipality is that, after eight months, we have succeeded as a committee group through TV Kraljevo, controlled by the current majority, and in particular by New Serbia, to schedule for tomorrow night's round table at 20.00 hours and to be on the round table representatives of the SRS, DSS, New Serbia and DS. Today I received word from those responsible from the TV King that everyone has escaped and that they must not appear on the round table tomorrow night. Budget or budget addition, a session is scheduled for October 3rd, probably in the same way as it was done here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And there's one more thing I have to say, because here is Minister of Finance and President G17 Plus, Mladjan Dinkic. Last night or night, it doesn't matter, on TV Kraljevo appears, in an hour's time, State Secretary for People's Defence Zvonko Obradovic. As well as false representation as Minister of People's Defence Stankovic, and the one who presented himself there as Secretary of State for an hour and an hour spoke on TV Kraljevo about the sale of property of the Serbian Army without mentioning 400 and some workers of the Military Post office Cibukovac, who had been breaking the thresholds and by the King for months, from the office of the head of the Raška District, to the doors of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that they had no understanding for them and their families, that they were left without bread, that they had no work, and last night Zvonko Obradovic talks about the sale of that property in Cibukovec, that I am not talking about Krađordjev and what he mentioned. I have here today received a memo or request, cry out Radovic Sima Gorana, who lives in Herceg Novi, worked in the navy, lost his job separating Montenegro from Serbia, has Serbian citizenship, listened to everything they said, and Boris Tadic. His family has Serbian citizenship, his daughter is studying in Belgrade, but the state of Serbia, the Serbian Army, will not take him over to continue working in Serbia's military. It's a harsh reality, and you, Minister Dinkic, were here the other day when you explained for an hour the changes and additions of the budget, or what was said earlier, the 2006 rebalancing, recommended to the villagers not to buy oil until Thursday, until tomorrow. Such a cynical invitation that you have made, but you should also know that the Minister of Agriculture is in the state of the peasants, because milk is, that the price of raw milk is 10 or 11 dinars, that I'm not talking about the price of wheat, what about livestock production, what about that hero, that pig, what about livestock production. Do you know, Minister Dinkic, or the Minister of Agriculture, has he known that the cattle market in the King has been working for years or starts working at 12.00 hours between Thursday and Friday? Do you know that the columns of tractors, trucks at the entrances of the Kings of Vranjska Banja, from Kragujevac, from Čačka, from Raška, have been stopped from 9.00 to 12.00 hours on the master roads. So, what work is being done by the Minister of Agriculture himself, the work of veterinary inspections and all other inspections, and you should know that the G17 plus in the coalition is in power in the Kingdom, that the municipal manager of Nesovic is from your party. We, as a committee group, have repeatedly sought, at the request of the peasants, to stop this humiliation, to determine the work of the cattle market at a reasonable time, when in fact it is necessary to come to the market, even the Turks did not do so. Summer time to be from 05 hours and winter from 06 hours and to be performed in the manner of honest and honest hosts. Unfortunately, this is all organized and prepared for abuse and robbery, the way it's organized. It only speaks of those who exercise power from the local level in the King, and similar fate is almost in all of Serbia, not to speak here in the republican government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the relevant ministries. Your friend now, and the great opponent a few years ago, Velju Ilic, I see that you are now going together, opening up some facilities, when you have seriously slowed down on television and on the media around the tobacco factory in Preljina, five million marks of Vela was then reportedly invested, or should have invested to start building that factory. Does Velimir Ilic know that the village of Mlanca has been cut off three months from the Studenica, from the Christian region, that children go to school for nothing, cross the river, 12 kilometers. A huge hill came down on the road, stopped the river, and created a huge lake there. But Velimir Ilic does not have time to solve the problem now, though allegedly by his mechanization, or those privates with whom he is melting, has torn up that road towards Mlanca, allegedly to be paved. He's not paved. The hill is on its way, a huge hill. Ilic is nowhere to be found. In the end, I will tell all these citizens from these six municipalities who will vote on October 1st to think carefully, have an example of the Kingdom municipality, because a good part of them has one of the acquaintances, friends or relatives in the Kingdom municipality, let them call, let them ask, and then they will see for themselves. And about the findings here that we, the Serbian radicals, are just calling someone or accusing them of thieving, of crime, of breaking the law; it's our basic duty and obligation. To me first, as a man. Second, professional obligation. And thirdly, this is all that's been happening to us and what's happening to us, huge crime, a huge robbery, and what's doing to the government of the Republic of Serbia to legalise in every way, robbing the state, robbing Serbian citizens, robbing the Serbian people. What we have now, what a situation in Serbia. Here you were, ministers, on Monday and today you are trying to get here through the answers to the SRS MPs to present to a rich country, a budget that shoots from money, a foreign reserve of over 10 billion euros, and you are forgetting the vast majority of the poor people, the poor citizens of Serbia before this wealthy state. That money you want to continue to manage, not looking at the vast majority of citizens who are too hard to live, 800,000 without a job, not to speak to hundreds of thousands of families in a socially difficult situation, without the real social program of the state. Because you said, when you came to power, that the state was taking over social function, that social function would be kicked out of businesses, institutions and jobs. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens have been deceived, no social function of the state. The state has no programme, such as no programme to address these key problems at the state level when it comes to infrastructure. Because there is no state of Serbia nor a spatial plan, there is no plan with priorities to address problems at the state level, as there are no local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29380	Thank you. Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29381	Thank you. I didn't want to answer much for the word today, given that you're really repeating one of those same things. But after these speeches, I have to give some clarifications to the citizens of Serbia and to you people's MPs. Will the Treasury Authority get even more authority to fully control public finances in Serbia through this new budget system law? Yeah, and he's got to control them. Yeah, they'll have powers, because who's gonna control public finances if they don't. At the head of the vault today is a person who is not party-oriented, professional, Mrs. Vesna Ginic. Both tomorrow and the day after and in the coming years, always, at the head of the vault, should be people who are not members of any political party who will strictly control the spending of budget money. Therefore, in all developing countries, the vault has the capacity to control the strict spending of money, to make appropriate payments. Only those answering the mess can ask why the vault's function is increasing. You're talking about some scams here. You say fraud won't work, the National Investment Plan is a fraud. I will now ask you what a fraud is, is the fraud that Serbia has finally had in recent years a stable dinar, a dinar that strengthens compared to the euro. Or it was a hoax when you were hyperinflationed in the 1990s, when that inflation was measured in billions. What's a fraud? Furthermore, if we are already talking about inflation, according to the finance ministry's estimates, we expect negative inflation to be in September, minus 0.2% is a percentage, as the September inflation measurement ends by September 21st. This means that in the first nine months of this year, inflation in Serbia will be 6.1% and it can be said for sure now that not only will we achieve projected inflation, one-digit, for this year, but it will be lower than projected. When we talk about the cost of oil derivatives, there are conditions for price change tomorrow. Of course, by the weekend it'll be realized at the pumps. I have even more reason to invite farmers today not to buy another day or two of fuel, because it will not be cheap for only three dinars, but between 3.5 and 4 dinars per litre, since it continued in the meantime to drop the price of oil on the world market. But someone here is saying it's a scam. So let them look at the people in a few days whether the fuel is cheap or not, and let them figure out what the radicals are saying here, whether they're just talking about telling or telling the truth or not. You'll see in a few days whether it's cheap or not for this amount I've told you about. Also, whether fraud or not is the fact that the banking system in Serbia is far stronger, reformed, with 10,000 new jobs opened over the past few years. It is one system that has had employment growth in this period, where it is fortunate that it has been done in other sectors and of course that the task of this and future governments remains to reduce unemployment in other sectors. In banking today, 10,000 people work more than they did in 2001 when the reform of the banking system began. Was it fraud or fraud to encourage the establishment of pyramid banks, like Dafina, the Horse. And whether it was a fraud that hasn't returned years of old foreign savings, and this and the previous government have returned over a billion and a half euros of old foreign currency securities. Today we have three billion euros in new savings in banks. It's not a fraud, it's true, and it really should be a shame when you use these words, why don't you tell the truth to the citizens. Is it a hoax that the tax system has been put in order and finally all those who have avoided during your rule to pay the state taxes? You didn't care, you were in favor of the gray economy, you were in line for bread, milk, flour, you were in favor of the people in the cans buying fuel. Whether it was a hoax or today when we have an orderly economy. Of course, only serious political parties are in line with society. The government has helped to further introduce order in society and in those segments where we have not done so yet will be done in the next period. Also, whether the fraud or the fact that the government protected the property of the Serbian state in Mobtel and achieved 1.5 billion euros from its privatisation in a transparent manner. Or it was a fraud that many had previously only talked about the state stealing Serbian citizens, who had 51% of the property in Mobtel, and everyone was watching and letting go, no one thought to put an end to it. What was a fraud, what was once said empty or what this government did, and now provided money to realise investment in infrastructure, hospitals, schools, improve sports and culture? It is not this national investment plan of fraud, it will be seen by all citizens who feel better after these investments, which will be viewed in providing funds for local municipal infrastructure, for national projects, for projects in the area of economy that will enable employment. It is possible that someone is upset that he is losing out of the election at a local level, but you and the republican elections will be lost. Now that you've become nervous, it's the best signal that the government is doing well, and I have to admit that it's just giving extra power. Also, was it a fraud that you had previously talked about Republika Srpska. You stood up for the Republic of Serbia, for strengthening economic relations, and all you did was paper. Or the government has finally made concrete projects that are not paper, where the first Serbian bank exposure was opened yesterday in Banja Luka, which approves loans at interest rates lower than all foreign banks, and which will win the territory of Republika Srpska's smartness, not you who have ratted out guns and led thousands of people to lose their lives in those disgusting wars of the 1990s. So, citizens slowly, but surely they understand who's talking and who's working and who's talking empty, and who might not talk much, but gives results. Of course, what was destroyed by these pointless wars, by hyperinflation, by the indifference that reigned while you were in power, we must now, in the period in which we were responsible for Serbia's leadership, continue to work. We aim at this government, and I am sure those who are currently in this government will be the backbone and the next government, to restore respect for Serbia. We pay back the debts others made. Something you've done, something of your predecessors. We're slowly climbing gross domestic product per capita, currently $4,000 per capita, and we're not satisfied. If you're asking me if that's good enough and enough, no. And you're right when you say that many villages still don't have roads, phones, but I'm asking you what you were doing while you were in power, why you didn't secure the money and sell the Mobtel, why you didn't pave those roads, secure the sewers and other necessary things. I must tell you that I am sure that all those who want good Serbia, and I am sure that these are all parties that are now run by this democratic government, we will not all stop until everyone who wants to be able to find a job does so. We will restore Serbia's pride because Serbia deserves serious people, and there are now and will have them in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29382	The state was in charge, the state would have to pay back. I'd like to ask you to do this by your Rules of Procedure with the Minister whether you need to speak to him publicly or you can regulate it in the meantime. He will certainly have his first word before you, according to the Rules of Procedure, People's Rules of Procedure Zoran Krasic, which will be at 18.30 p.m. [[After break – 18.35.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you all for your mutual understanding. We will continue the debate, and firstly by the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29384	Mr. Markovic, I hope it's not too late when the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are adopted to install a provision that anyone who causes a replica or makes a breach of the Rules of Procedure must be present here, because this is really embarrassing to whom I'm saying this now? That's not correct, if I listened here neatly for an hour yesterday, and we just kept listening to what Dinkic said, it's essential that he be here for the public. Mr. Dinkic obviously has big problems. Some have prevailed in their political party, some are likely trying to resolve within the coalition government, some trying to solve with extraparliamentary and parties that are not present in the National Assembly building.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29385	I'm sorry, so it's about the injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29386	Mr. President, Article 104, that is understood after such a heated exposure. Any exposure of a competent official, who is to defend a legal project based on paroles, flossules and imaginary things, is a weak defense of the bill. It was my predecessor that successfully demonstrated for this speaker that I had really little left to do in hurting the Rules of Procedure to say what was offensive. It is offensive that one minister does not know the chronology of the event, it is offensive that one minister does not have that view of the historical aspect of the events that took place by the former SFRY. So if he thought of hyperinflation and turned to the Serbian Radical Party, and he probably thought of us, he only forgot one thing that at the time of hyperinflation, which was the beginning of May 93, the SRS was in opposition, and some members of the SRS in prison, so, despite the best will to participate in power, the Serbian Radical Party could not be in power. But Mr. Dinkic obviously doesn't know the dates, he doesn't know the time, maybe he was doing college exams at the time. He doesn't know I wrote the book "What took the left hand so he didn't know the right hand." The book is the result of the survey committee's work which established all the facts of the circumstances of old foreign savings and pyramid banks. That report was never adopted and was not on the agenda. The chairman of the committee was Mr. Jokanovic, a major distraction represented Mr. Kastratovic to determine the truth. Ivan Vujačić, ambassador to America, also participated. They had the faintest contribution to determining the truth. We've tried to determine the truth and I hope we've established it, so I strongly recommend that you read that book so that you don't demonstrate elemental ignorance from this pay phone. Furthermore, Mr Dinkic pointed out the problem of old foreign savings. I don't know why he tied it to the Serbian Radical Party. We were in the government from 24 March 98 to 25 October 2000. Just to remind you what the law requires the minister of finance to answer. How can the 2006 budget be ten times higher than the 2000 budget? Is ten times better for the citizens? Let's consider that it's 2000. For years, such a small budget was because the state may not have fulfilled any obligations towards the citizens, so today it has not met them with the citizens. Today even the level of citizens' rights is reduced when they report for some state presentation. There's no answer to that question. And it's illusory to comment on really political parole, where you've been, about thousands of victims. I don't know, he may have something against the SPS, but the SPS must not attack through the Serbian Radical Party, it is not correct towards the SPS. We were with the SPS in the government, but while we were in the government, we never had any intention of attacking our coalition partner, but at some point you're making the government make the best moves, the best solutions for your country and your people. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? Because it's nearing the end of the G17 plus epic. It's really going to be one failed epic because no one's going to see you now. They used to want you when you were supposed to be experts and when the IMF stood behind you, and now no one will, because they all see you as JUL, JUL of a democratic coup in Serbia. Serbian citizens are becoming less and less committed to those carrying the coup, becoming less and less dedicated to those who resemble the one who entered the National Bank with the sock, who has declared himself governor of the National Bank. No matter how much you hate the Serbian Radical Party, no matter how much you dispute, you cannot attribute these non-democratic methods to us. Our democratic asset is a pen. Call the elections, and what Zivojin Stefanovic said, if you need to vote on that budget, just to secure this part of the funds needed for the referendum, let that constitution be adopted and go straight to the elections, do not have such bill to amnestize yourself unsuccessfully. This is transparent. You know why you're passing these two laws like this and what you want to cover. If Mr. Dinkic were here, I'd ask him what happened to that money from Cyprus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29387	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I hope no one resents me for allowing you double time, so I didn't want to interrupt Mr. Krasic, because I realized that the parts of the speech refer to both Article 104 and Article 225, so giving the necessary notices. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29388	Citizens who have been monitoring the transmission are well known that the SRS has been doing its full-time work today, this number of SRS MPs. We think it's enough to explain in a few minutes all these amendments that are left, to help speed up the work, given that we have work to do tomorrow, so hopefully, Mr. President, you have nothing against what I'm going to do in this discussion to cover more amendments, because it's all in favor of more efficient work. (President: I assume all MPs agree. Thank you. Here you go. ) I have to draw attention to you that, when last time the law on the budgetary system was amended and we have submitted amendments that we have expressed dissatisfaction with the formation of the Treasury Administration, we have not expressed our dissatisfaction that these jobs do not exist, but we believe that these transactions must exist within the Ministry of Finance, but that this segmenting of state bodies to the administrations, agencies, directors, institutions, etc. is bad for the very organisation of government in the Republic, and in this sense we have included that part of our amendments. This applies partly to what Mr Cevrovic explained, this also applies to Mr Mircic's amendment to Article 23, and we are now with the amendment to Article 24, and it is about the management, where you are now changing what you have previously installed in the bill. Practically, these are now amendments to the amendments and additions to the previous law. When someone double-changes their law within a few months, the basic text, then changes and complements, and changes and additions, then he's not oriented in time and space, then he's hiding something, then something's wrong, then the planning, the assessment is absolutely wrong. I'd like to go back to Article 27 now, since we've skipped some members, like this to Article 26, we think it's covered in another way. As for Article 27, it's a new crime. The SRS consistently represents the view that criminal law should be in one general criminal law. Such a code was passed last year and entered into force on January 1st this year. Probably in those seven or eight months nothing has changed much more, which was not known and present when the Criminal Code was passed. Why isn't this embedded in the Criminal Code then? You see, now one option is used which is provided for by the Criminal Code, but it should be interpreted restrictively, as one exception that can appear from time to time, but cannot be an exception in all tax regulations, in all financial regulations. In addition to the existence of criminal acts in the area of financial affairs in the Criminal Law, one or two new crimes appear in each financial regulation. Of course, he's not here, Mr. Dinkic, and I have to comment on this for the public. Why? Because I'm covered by this criminal record that can't begin and never end, but it appears neatly every six months in a single newspaper. You invented my own brother, although I'm an only child, but never mind, I'm over it. I'm over it, but I sued the press, the cases are outdated in court. It's this "democratic application of the law," "rule of law" maximum. Look at all the victims of the DOS regime. I think we're going to have to make a DOS victim's fund and a DOS victim's street. Believe that many more people will apply than those of your associations about the victims you associate with other names and names. Mr Dragan Todorovic was elected vice-president of the Republic government in 99. He was charged with criminal charges, in which he was charged with charges allegedly committed by him as a minister of traffic and connections in 2000. So the man wasn't even a minister. Not by the misery of it, but by burdening him with something signed by Aleksandar Milutinovic in November 2000, as minister in the transitional government. That's what the newspaper says, every once in a while, some expert comes out, blasphemes, revolutionist change, heats up on fire while the Federal Assembly burns, here authoritatively brings out what - lies. Where did he find them? In the paper. Who designed the system of criminal charges? Labus, Djindjic, Dinkic, Djelic, Covic. On whose orders? Some European Development Banks. Why? In order for all those who would be intruding the new DOS regime to be characterized as criminals who have a patriotic story. You prove it every step of the way. There is no protection for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just compliance with all the interests and demands of the West. How is this criminal act supposed to go? "A fine of 30,000 dinars to 300,000 dinars or prisons by one year will punish the person responsible for the criminal offence, the responsible person in the organisation of compulsory social security or another responsible person in the users of the budget or in the organisation of compulsory social insurance, who creates obligations or on the burden of the budget, authorises the payment of expenditure and expenditures over the amount of one million dinars in relation to the amount determined by budget or financial plan, or through the amount of the loans given by the government act." It's not a problem that you've just prescribed this crime very inaccurately. This judge can't apply, because there are no elements of the entity's crime and they're so widespreadly placed. The question is, how is it possible to get to the crime scene when there's internal control, internal audit, budget inspection and all of this, which in your hands, at the republican level, is at the local level? You've already had it in practice. How many times is the budget inspection, and I know, I also have these budget inspection records, so for some time we call on some record, some times not, what have they all found while it was in power of the DOS furniture Djindjic-Zivkovic? Is there some kind of criminal procedure in place? Not according to this article, this article couldn't. Is the problem solved? How could the money from privatizing the tobacco industry, like the social program, go to a basketball club? It's not illegal because they made Democrats. If he had done this radical, he would have been shot at the scene, and perhaps even more times, not for a joke, like Milan Babic in The Hague. They finally reported he was hanged twice: once with a rope, and another with a belt. Those criteria got mixed up, those feelings. I would also like to comment on Article 28, where you are setting a new objective deadline for determining the limitations of the offence. It's not a year anymore, it's three years. Why are you increasing that deadline? Why increase that deadline, if you have these harmonised mechanisms, harmonised with the EU and one state there, which should act preventively to prevent the occurrence of non-intentional spending. Then why are you increasing the deadline? Maybe it seems to some that I shouldn't be saying this, because as a party that's about to come to power, we're comfortable with this kind of change in limitation, because we can create a retrospective, so that we have a larger coverage of a person who might be able to fit. We fight as a party for principle, not for rematchism. We just want to keep the principle. If we represent a principle everywhere, why don't we represent it here? Although it would be very interesting to look at records, books, and how they were paid and how some funds were spent. I draw your attention that compared to the 2000 budget, the 2006 budget is ten times higher. I draw your attention that the number of government employees has increased, that the number of authorities has increased and many other things have increased. The level of protection, the level of law is reduced in the meantime, many of the obligations remain unmistakable, and then what are the budgets being spent on? What is the purpose of this kind of centralised control of the use of budget funds? To ensure dedicated use of funds. I support it, if that's it. But it's not that. It's that the accidental use of these funds, because of this kind of control, is unclear, untransparent. He won't attack you in a transparent environment. You see that Anti-Corruption Council, as soon as you gave them some money, mentioned that lady's apartment there, it's quiet now. The NGO has taken over. Why? Because boss is the same, boss is from abroad, don't argue, kids, you have to be together, it's easier for us to rule over you, how we're going to control insubordinate radicals, they're still thinking about their people. There, that's the whole story, that's the difference that exists. And of course, there are a few other amendments that we have submitted concerning the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, which are transitional and final provisions, and we have ordered their erasure, because it would not make sense if we hadn't done so, given all these previous amendments. With the last amendment we have submitted, we insist that this law enters into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication, because we do not see any reasonable reason why this law would have to enter into force the next day of its publication, as proposed to the last member of this law, which is the 31st member. We don't think there's a reasonable reason for this law to come in earlier than the day it's prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because by the end of the financial year there's a lot of time, the means that you boast you have quite enough. You haven't spent your entire budget yet, there's no need for any urgency, you have resources, you can change the appraisals both on the eighth and ninth days. Or maybe this is the sudden entry into force of this law regarding the future composition of that government since Sunday. If that is the reason, then I invite you all to accept this amendment, because if, God forbid, this law is urgently passed, it is possible to pass the solutions of the Ministry of Finance, to implement the schedule of funds, to target the funds elsewhere, in accordance with the amendments and additions to this law, i.e. above all, the amending and supplementing laws of the Budget Law. As far as that referendum is concerned, that's fine, that's what we support. We don't support anything else. We will interpret that any other allocation of funds, even if it is in accordance with the law amending and supplementing the Budget Law, is an abuse, if it would be made within the time limit that would be normal for the entry into force of a law in the Republic of Serbia as regards the SRS, we have concluded the debate on amendments to this law, so we expect to continue with this budget regulation tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29389	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does any other parliamentary group want a word about this Article 24? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted to the MP Natasa Jovanovic, the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29390	If I wasn't in the O.R., Mr. Markovic, but I've never had someone call me in more than 10 years, and my amendment's on the agenda and I'm talking without going out for a pay phone. I'm not gonna use all 15 minutes. I just want to make on my behalf, as an MP for the SRS, a summary of this law on amending the Budgetary System Act. We tried to recapitulate the current application of the Budgetary System Act through these amendments, which said that each member was deleted. On numerous examples in today's day and in the course of principle debate, the MPs who followed us, although few were in the hall, but above all the general public, those to whom the law refers, in the sense that they are bound to apply it, saw that we were right because the law has numerous failures. It is interpreted differently by the authorities of the Republic government, through the unit of local self-government, and the intensity of the amendments and the addition of the minister who has escaped again, Mladjan Dinkic, since a bunch of those nonsensees spoke at the expense of the SRS, and I see in the afternoon when he returned, after returning, it is difficult for him, because he obviously has to say goodbye to the ministerial post, and the question is whether he can ever think of entering this door as a representative of the people. I think it's an impossible mission for a party whose president he is now, but they're what our people would call "slight fish," so who's going to deal with them. I want to say for the sake of the future and the people who will have to, after the law is passed, to apply it, that all these objections that we have made could have been removed, especially since the basic text of the Budgetary System Act was adopted. Whether they are MPs, and the most obvious examples are in those municipalities where Serbian radicals are in power, and you others know. This is where MPs reported on several occasions from the SPS, which are in coalition governments or some other governments, said the Law on the Budget System was hollowed on all grounds. Everyone knows that, because huge powers were given to the Minister himself. He behaves in the right sense, and it is good that never again in Serbia, if God and people's will are not such ministers as Dinkic, such as Bozidar Djelic, because it creates uncertainty. From the local community, to the authority of the administration in local self-government, municipalities, cities, through all other taxpayers, and direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds. We will have the chance to also talk tomorrow about the National Investment Plan, which was made for marketing purposes, and when he dared to, at the expense of the SRS, through the untrue and obvious ignorance, but the malignancy and obvious nervous Dinkic gave such nonsense half an hour ago. We are talking about it because he is the creator, he says, of a large project, which is in fact the property, that is, the resources of Serbia, of all citizens, which has recently been sold to Telenor on public auction. Then as they were throwing away these numbers and where that money was in that supposed strategic project, it didn't go, and first of all it had to go. Tomorrow, we will have opportunities to do so, since we have submitted a lot of amendments to the budget rebalance, which includes money for the National Investment Plan, to discuss the most vulnerable structures in our society, above all children, pensioners, unemployed, and to see, through the care and through the social programme that the SRS will apply when it takes over in Serbia, that it and how it can do better. Such statistical nonsense, which boasted all day and yesterday, Mladjan Dinkic, is actually the biggest insult for Serbian citizens. To tell Serbian citizens that today, in 2006, on 27 September, they live much better than five or six years ago, to tell them about how honey and milk flow, how high pensions, salaries are, the minister boasts that the banking sector is strengthened, so he is well, both him and Jelasic. I totally understand him when he's talking about his party associates and the banking lobby, whose head he's headed for. These same banks and these same banking lobbys, money, capital, because money today is the most expensive commodity, you will agree, all of which is from Western countries and through these banks, which, under much more favourable conditions, operate here as domestically, brought into our country, the citizens of Serbia are being sold and the citizens have to leave. Indeed, there are lines in banks waiting for such loans, because they cannot pay the price of electricity, which has been increased by 1300% over the past six years, communals, because they can't buy children clothes, shoes and prepare wood for heating and pay their bills. In this, the difference between us and what is as a vision, but that will not happen, Dinkic sees as some future ruling democratic bloc. What you were "democrats" and how much benefit Serbian citizens see, the citizens showed on December 28, 2003, when they shot down Dinkic's political associates, associates, because he was under their authority the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and then Serbia, when they listened to the SRS voice. But this time it's going to be in an incomparably larger number, so be sure. Because the essential thing in Serbia for anyone living here today is no longer a story and is not a labeling without a real background from a newer history or, however you will, with realistic facts, as it is inconclusive and in an unskilled political manner, as a political dilett in the right sense of words, and an uncultural man, just half an hour ago, actually did Mladjan Dinkic. People will watch who offers them and who are the people who run for the elections for the future government of the Republic of Serbia, for the president of the country. Be assured, at this point, I am absolutely certain that millions of Serbian citizens only want essential changes and fair authority, which will know that they appreciate everyone and that they will not allow the oligarchs, closely linked to the top of the state government, to be well with them, to be comfortable in their fairies, in huge apartments, in armored cars. Because Dinkic was supposed to come from his example, and Tadic, this one across the street, all those from his National Office and Djilas, headed that way by Boris Tadic and all the other thieves, who first restored their fleets. So the minister could tell us what was wrong with him finding another fleet, but he bought the most expensive Audi A-8 for himself and his ministry. How they live today and how much they pay to those who are on the boards of these banks, and citizens have to pay interest on cash, you come in and you're done, from 23 to 27%. That's not what people want. They just want the opportunity to work, to hire their children, to stay here, to get young schooled, to appreciate everyone's work, to open up factories, new jobs, and to live honestly in the country, in their own country that they love. And to honor those who are willing to sacrifice themselves for their people. They respect Professor Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, who sacrifices himself for his country and his people, and they do not respect those who play in such a way, and after so many years, with a feeling and those who have lost their loved ones, as the chairman did without warning, the finance minister did. He was in Banja Luka yesterday, maybe once or twice before that. He was not there, nor was he there Boris Tadic, nor was he the Shutanite, nor the other thieves, when it was most difficult for the people. The citizens of Republika Srpska know this, and half a million are those who have left their hearths under the attack of Ustasha criminals and hordes, and who live here today know it, and the exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and those who remain down and who today are looking for their own safety. We are people who, above all, want to achieve the great and broad, the widest possible national consensus, to save the country, and especially to fight for our key state interest, which is the survival of our southern province and to create security for our fellow Americans living there. We don't have time, we Serbian radicals, more to make out, as our people would say, with Dinkic and similar. Because their time has passed today's and tomorrow's farewell speeches, whatever he's saying for the next few days, are just one ugly historical fact in our recent history, like those of the other so-called. but a thief's non-democratic block. The people should look to the future, and certainly the future is us, who, by the perseverance of our views, by every law and every question, have shown that we can and can and will do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29391	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I'm really sorry, but I don't know whose customs they are, I always have to ask when someone will, because we don't all need to know the facts of private life. For example, the finance minister was in a uniform in Banja Luka for 12 months, but it's old times, is it? Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I simply took the lead in Mr Krasic's principled presentation, so I'm checking. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29392	There is no misunderstanding, Mr Krasic said exactly what we in the MP group agreed. Article 29. The draft law on the budgetary system really deserves a special comment for the sake of the public and, above all, the legal public. I will read Article 29's proposal: 'Extremely, preparing and proposing the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 is implemented on the following calendar: 1 November - The Government adopts a revised budget memorandum on the budget, taking into account the macroeconomic framework updated after 30 April; 15 November - the Minister delivers to the Government the draft budget of the Republic and the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations; 1 December - The Government adopts the draft budget of the Republic and delivers it, together with the revised memorandum on the budget and financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations, the National Assembly. “ It’s amazing that under one law we have a small lex specialis, that’s Article 29. It is truly unseen that the law regulates the failure of the deadline by the minister, i.e. to amnesty of the minister because he missed the deadline. In the law, you predict how it will be done, that is to say, only the 2007 budget and it is simply not normal. There's a couple of lawyers sitting here, and I really think they're sharing my opinion. What you know in advance or what the Government knows in advance that the minister will not carry out his obligations, and you're trying to pass through the law, we in the SRS are really unacceptable. This is one precedent I don't know that I've ever met in some bill of law. You've had all sorts of radical suggestions, you've had inapplicable suggestions, every miracle we've had here, but this precedent, this kind of sex specialis in the form of one member, within a single law, I guess this Parliament hasn't remembered since some I don't know how long ago. That is why I wanted to draw particular attention to the public of Serbia, legal first of all, how the Serbian government works and how the Serbian government manipulates the Serbian Parliament, which is also unacceptable and which is also not the first time. What did Minister Dinkic do here about an hour or so ago, Mr Markovic, really doesn't like the minister, and it's not like you, as Parliament speaker, to tolerate it in that way, not to draw attention to the minister's obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure as well as all the MPs, and instead you let the minister do in the prime minister's prime time, which is usually your specialty, as well as the Minister of Serbia's speciality, to give a lecture here to the MPs, to say that MPs say stupid things, to execute one parliamentary group, and you don't react, take a break of seven minutes, just so long it takes to smoke one cigarette, and in those seven minutes it was necessary to forget what Minister Dinkic here said and to get over it. Minister Dinkic, here today and yesterday, spent a little time here – otherwise for two days he was very rudely violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, ignoring the National Assembly, ignoring the MPs, repeating what I said this morning, he was not here to explain the views of the Government regarding our amendments, the written report of the Government, which we did not usually get, but through all of this is going on – this short time that Dinkic spent and which he mostly used from here, I guess in this election campaign for local elections, he spoke to the citizens, he talked about the winners of the transition. And he certainly is the winner of the transition, and his closest friends, and his government counterparts, these and those of the previous two governments, Zivkovic and Djindjic. Of course, they leave the government, they open banks, private colleges, and they certainly are the winners of the transition. We Serbian radicals here are trying to fight for the right and better life of the loss of transition, and the loss of transition is the people. Most citizens in this Serbia are the great losers of the transition. Dinkic's story about how many new people are employed in banks. What happened to the ones he ran out of banks in 2001? What about then tens of thousands of people who worked for centuries or until the end of the working century working in the largest Serbian banks? They're not in these banks. There are some new young people in these banks. I don't mind being hired, but there's no minister to brag about, to fire 20,000 employees, I really don't know what the minister's success is. He says -- in Republika Srpska yesterday there were 30 businessmen, led by Kostunica and Tadic, there they were waited by Dodik and Cavic, walking five metres through Banja Luka, surrounded by bodyguards, and last night the public service of European Serbia told us that they were walking freely and that they allowed the citizens' security guards to approach them. No living citizen should have come within a mile of that square where they were. Last night I heard from at least ten people from Banja Luka, listening to what I heard, people can't miraculously be surprised by such lies. They went there for an election campaign, opened a Commercial Bank. So they didn't open a drive there to employ those people who now live in Republika Srpska, not on their hearths, but came from some other parts of BiH or Krajina, because they were expelled in those actions that were under way during the last country wars on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. It's easy to go, take a picture and show it on TV like that. What did they really do? Is it possible to think that citizens in both Serbia and Republika Srpska are so short of memory and that they will believe in what they sign there, which no one has seen alive and knows what it really means and what it represents? They are making a parallel election campaign for Republika Srpska, that is where Dodik and Cavic tell the people in Republika Srpska, because they know that the people love Serbia and think Serbia is their mother, and they now represent there that they hold such close relations with Serbia. And these here also know that in Serbia there are many citizens, many voters who have very close ties with Republika Srpska and do not need the signature of Cavicev and Dodik, and Tadic and Kostunica, much closer to the relationship, and connections are the heart, and ties are families. I don't need their signatures, because my family's members live in five cities in Serbia and five cities in Republika Srpska, my dear colleagues. I don't need their signatures. Many of them in Serbia and because of those who are voters in Serbia and should be, Kostunica and Tadic went to show that they care about all Serbs, wherever they live. And how do they take care of Serbs in Serbia? How do they solve the KIM issue, how do they solve the scary question, they call it some kind of camps where people who are displaced with KIM live? There a living man wouldn't live for seven days, not seven years. How do they care about that people? How are 800,000 citizens living below the poverty line in Serbia today? How do they care for over 30,000 children who do not have a third meal? What explanation do they have for the fact, published in the media, that the purchasing power of citizens in Serbia has fallen by three percent? As they explain, data has been released today, by 2% of the number of unemployed in Serbia? Who do they tell stories to? What I'm saying, that's what this people know. Not knowing, experiencing on his skin and then thinking Dinkic, it's enough here that at half past six in the best time, most visible, he comes out to insult the MPs, who do their job here, to say that we're talking nonsense, and he's so smart, and he thinks that the citizens will believe in his mind and his honesty. The citizens have not forgotten how Mladjan Dinkic came to power and I just wonder, and I would ask him if he were here, what if these 800,000 Serbian citizens, who are below the poverty level, went with helicopters and kalashnikovs to the National Bank. They can do it with a trained experience, it's what Dinkic did, he didn't miss the hair on his head. So how's he gonna react? Whether Mladjan Dinkic and whether Vlad Kostunica-Dulic even know how this nation lives in Serbia. Let the stories go, let go of a few nice sentences and think -- now we're the smartest, we told them nice, and now they're gonna believe us. They won't believe you, and they can't believe you. I can't because they have a very bad experience with this government and with you, gentlemen, who support the government. He says, Mladjan Dinkic, he looked towards the SRS MP, that we were nervous. Does it seem to you that one of us is nervous, whether we are doing something today that we haven't done since this congregation was established? We are the people of opposition in this House, we do it every day, we do it by law, we have no reason to be nervous. Very soon the time will change when we will not be the opposition and when we will allow you to criticize us, but we will never tell you to talk nonsense, if you have arguments for us like we have for you. I understand that Mladjan Dinkic is nervous. To win local elections, he said he would leave the government on October 1st, thought he would never come on October 1st. Now he's in trouble. In two or three days, he has to say he's lying to either his party or his voters, the three percent he has, what he's going to do. Maybe he stays in the government or he'll leave the government, so he won't be so big a winner of the transition, although he's already won enough, he'll be free to leave. He's nervous, and since it's obviously a man who doesn't have morals, that's why he's nervous, because whoever has morals and who's involved in politics, I'm talking about political morality, if he says he's leaving the government on October 1st, then it's nice and he's leaving, not that there's a rape agenda here, that one session of the Assembly doesn't end, that another one is scheduled, that by the towers talk about the third session, that something that could possibly be an excuse for Mladjan Dinkic to stay a little longer in government, not to guard the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Not you DSS colleagues, you think Mladjan Dinkic is in the government because he wants to protect you. No, it's because he likes the prime minister as Kostunica, who has left him all the money of this people, all the money that Serbia has, Dinkic does what he wants, and he's fine. As Sunday approaches, he's sick, but what do we do to him? As Sunday approaches, the day when elections will be held in six municipalities in Serbia and elections will be held in Republika Srpska, as well as there citizens watch the transfer of this assembly, I know it reliably because I participated in the campaign in Republika Srpska and heard it all, I just want to call these citizens and draw attention to the citizens and Leskovec, Žabara, Gornji Milanovac, Barajev, Doljevac and Despotovac, not to fall for another fraud, not to vote for those who are now exercising power, because these are all those who are in Kostunica's government, it is Boris Tadic. And to vote for those they will vote for most when they are the republican elections, and of course, they are the candidates of the SRS. I also advise the citizens of Republika Srpska not to fall for what happened yesterday, but to think seriously and to vote for the SRS on 1 October -- Dr Vojislav Seselj, as these elections depend on whether Republika Srpska will survive or disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-27-0.u29393	Thank you. When he's safe, God protects him. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 30th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, searching the details of the 2nd item of the agenda. Thank you all for participating in today's debate. Good-bye and good-bye.
