ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I would like to explain the amendment to Article 7, where I suggested that this amendment be deleted. In order to understand the reasons identified by the SRS parliamentary group for erasing this amendment, we must bear in mind the whole discussion in principle, but also the discussion yesterday in particular on the current text of the law, i.e. these first few members. What's most important is that Article 7 of this law regulates who are the subject of obligations in this law, or who is to be obliged to restitutions of property to churches and religious communities. This article overrepeats who are return bonds, so that it is assumed that the return on immovable property, i.e. the payment of cash compensation, the Republic of Serbia, the company or another legal person who is the owner of the property seized at the moment of entry into force of this law. Just to remind you, when we talked about Article 3 and when it's prescribed Article 3, it's said in terms of terms of what the obligor is and who is obliged to return the property, so this repetition at a very short interval is really unnecessary. What is very important, I would point out, is that Articles 7 paragraphs 2 and 3 separate the debtors from the return of this property to churches and religious communities, and this is said: "If a company or another legal person proves that the property on immovable property has been acquired by cargo legal work, at a market price at the time of transfer of property rights or other rights contained in it, that company, or another legal person, remains the owner of the immovable property, and the Republic of Serbia is obliged to pay cash compensation." I don't know what this provision might come up with otherwise, but I suppose big anomalies will happen here, so certain companies that have even made privatisation and these assets have gone into private hands, the return obligation will be the Republic of Serbia, and we know how much privatisation the Republic of Serbia gets and how much local self-government they get. I find this kind of solution and this attitude in a member extremely irrational and unnecessary, with everything we've said that otherwise this member shouldn't exist. However, in the third point, I would point out that it is now undermining that the person referred to in Article 2 which has acquired the right of ownership or other right which contains within it the right to be available on the basis of a legal transaction for which no market price has been paid at the time of transfer, is obliged to return the immovable property referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article. Here is now a very important legal problem which otherwise meets in the practice of courts and the Commission on the return and restitution of assets which, by the way, started in the 1990s, appears in a large extent. In fact, if we start with someone getting a load of legal work with a fee, it was just or unfair, it's one situation, and if we start with a legal person or another company having acquired a certain asset without compensation, it's a special situation. If this is how we predicted, and this is how it stays in the law, we're going to get into a very big legal problem, which is to touch legal certainty. Namely, we must take aside and leave the restitution of the property that has been acquired by the burden of legal work with compensation. What would that mean? This would mean that the second position of Article 7 must verify the market conditions for immovable property at the time when this property was estranged, i.e. when the current obligor acquired property rights over certain immovable properties taken from churches and religious communities. I think so much going back in time when all the criteria lost all the values, so we have to estimate what was 40-50 years ago the market value. It's going to get into a lot of legal security. I don't think the bill promoter has taken sufficient care of these matters. I believe that eradicating this member can be much more amortizing the problems that will arise in the possible application of the law if this law is passed. We're going to come across a variety of ways about all this. There will be some expert commissions and a question is raised as to what kind of expert it should be to assess whether he has given a certain and appropriate market value to someone in the freight and legal business. If that's alienated by bidding and there's no market value yet, then how are we going to act, then how are we going to make a decision? Will it be a liability under attitude 2 or possibly attitude 3, can anyone now answer these questions? I don't think so. Here, you see one situation. If the property was taken from the church and the religious community and given to the local self-government, it was usually given to municipalities at the time, and they carried out a certain bidding process and someone quoted a price, but that price may have been – two set, the third one won. How are we going to defend one legal certainty now? The one who bought it was legally and ex-legislatively acquired the right of property. On the other hand, if such a provision of Article 7 is taken, the question may be raised whether it is a market value. And now getting into market value after this long period of time is really extremely irrational. I must say that the case law and the practice of the administrative authorities of the 1990s, if you remember when that law on the return of property was passed under the Law on PZF or the Agricultural Land Fund and the unmistakable obligations from 1946 to 1951, then you will come across an excuse for what I said, which is that much more of the danger is giving birth to the adoption of such a member than erasing. If we delete it, we have everything provided for in Article 3, and practice can respond and crystallize what is right, just and true in certain cases. If the legislator's view is taken that religious communities and churches should not be damaged in this restitution, then the question is whether we are correcting one injustice by another, and that is what can affect our legal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27382	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27383	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The proposal for a law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, so much as I suggested that attitudes 1 and 2 are changed and said: "The property that has been taken away from churches and religious communities and which, in the meantime, has passed legal business into the property of another person is not subject to permanent use in terms of the provisions of this law. Giving to the permanent use of churches and religious communities of property taken from churches and religious communities and passed on to the property of another person on the basis of illegal, or fictitious legal acts and businesses, is provided by the Republic of Serbia." Therefore, the proposed views of this member, whose removal I have proposed, are regulated that the return on property is a legal and natural person on the basis of unfounded authority. Mr Minister, we know that this is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Fundamental Liabilities, because a natural and legal person, based on unfounded authority, cannot be liable for damages or for the return of a period of ten years, so that the proposed solution does not comply with the law and must be in accordance with the Law on Liabilities. It's out of date, so this solution I've suggested is very acceptable for all cases. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia should be laid down when it comes to an illegal legal act based on which a natural and legal person has acquired this property in the past tense. For these reasons, I have also proposed this amendment, believing that you will adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27384	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title of Head of the Third, the title above Article 9 and to Article 9. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, in which I propose that the title of the Head of the Third and Title above Article 9 be changed and read as follows: "The subject of the giving for use, of the property given for use". The reasons for this amendment are the same as for the amendment in Article 1. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS finds it unacceptable to define and norm how it is proposed to be a return, because the SRS considers it the most comprehensive, fairest, that the law accurately expresses the norm and that the will of the legislator is subject to giving for use, not return. These are important differences. It must be distinguished, made a sharp limit and defined, and it is of general interest to be subject to "using" and not to be a "return" norm. From a formal legal point of view, these are important differences. These differences, as well as the very definitions of our amendment, can be clearly understood and recognized, because the titlemaker should remain the one who is, but the subject of being given to use, and in no case return. That is why we propose to adopt amendments to the SRS in the day to be set to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27386	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 9. The bill lists the immovableities to be given to permanent use of churches and religious communities. Among others, the forest and forest land are listed, and I will speak more about it. The SRS believes that the properties of churches and religious communities must be returned in natural form, which in this case, according to the government, turns out that when it comes to forests and forest land, it seems impossible. We all understand that this is necessary also because of the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija, but the government seems to give false hope that in the rest of Serbia they will do what is declared in this law. First of all, the government probably knows that it is more than 100,000 hectares, currently owned by forest owners, national parks, agricultural land, etc. If he wants to comply with the provisions of this law, he will face a major problem, as some legal solutions had to follow before the law was passed. First of all, I am referring to the Law on Forests, which is late due to the obvious compliance with EU rules, which we will not even enter. We heard what Merkel said about it, although it will be the alignment of Serbia's forest law that goes in the direction of how this will naturally be broken down and sold out. So, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary how he's going to continue to run those woods. These are huge surfaces that cover huge space. Do you know what needs to be done to make forest management a success, how in these conditions will a forest economic base be done? Do you know what needs to be done to get a plan for each department individually, which has between eight and ten acres in the area, and as we can see here are the entire land units, which have three and five thousand hectares. Then, taxes on entire plots per revirament, not to mention forest farming measures, disease protection, pests, we also had a leper attack, and if the church owns thousands and thousands of hectares, how will it carry out protection against these pests, if the law does not determine how it will be managed by those forests? Next, there's a line-up, performing sanitary work, repairing the firefield, designing roads, it's a huge job that only forest workers can do. In order for forests, which should otherwise be given to the permanent use of churches and religious communities, to continue to be nurtured and kept, a law on forests that would precede this law is needed. This is how you give the woods to the church without a legal solution. How can the church have these woods? First of all, the church is not registered as a legal entity that would deal with forest business, the traffic of wooden varieties. In that time vacuum, the most likely will be to lose both the church and the state. The churches will be tied hands, and the previous owners, such as forest land, will no longer have an interest in investing anything. If the government thinks that it cashes in on churches the value of forests and forest land, this could immediately qualify as inexhaustible, as it is a huge material asset. The state of Serbia, the Kingdom of Serbia, 100 years ago legally arranged it and the state's obligations to the so-called so-called state were known. Church and monastery forests. I would only show you the copied first page of the 1891 forest law, where it is beautifully stated in Article 81, subtitled – the treatment of monastery and church forests: "With the monastery and church forests, which are controlled by the state under Article 2 of this Act, will be handled in everything as ordered by this law for municipal or rural forests, and in the name of... "that's how it's listed. Now I would just point out that the term – "municipal and rural forests" in these existing legal regulations does not exist. On this simple case you can see what it looks like when it comes to the monastery forests of Ravenica and Manasia in Braničevska eparchy. Ravanica monastery owned a total of 1,249 hectares by 1946. Then it was taken away and given to forest owners for use. As far as the Manasi monastery is concerned, the situation is even more drastic. Then 3,625 hectares of forest and forest land were taken away. These are, in forest terms, the entire land units. Unfortunately, these today are mostly degraded, ruined forests, which are almost completely devastated with unsuspecting urine. Here's an example of what this monastery forest doesn't look like today. It's another of the additional motives for the church to seek compensation from the state for the apparent destruction of forest treasure, which has been fostering generations and generations backwards for years. So these are huge areas for which the minister probably won't have some solution in the foreseeable future, so he'll probably invent some legal obstacle to turning this process in the wrong direction. Also, MPs should know that Fruska Gora, which is a national park, belonged literally to the monasterys by 1946. Then there is the Ovčar-Cablar ravine, then the Studenic Forests and many others. There is a solution, but it must be written in terms of the law, and the Law on Forests, because this significantly changes the position of a significant percentage of the area under the forests in Serbia. As for the border and record from the geometric shooting of monasteries and church forests and forest land, they are carefully kept in Serbian monasteries and diocese seats. The latest measures, which are extremely precise and accurate, stem from the border protocol that was made in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians from 1928 to 1933, and, according to the solution of the Ministry of Forests and Mines, which existed at the time. I hope that in the election day MPs will accept this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27388	The word has Minister Parivodic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27389	I thank you for this amendment. First, I am taking the opportunity to express my sincere condolences to the family of MPs Nedeljkovic from the SRS and the Serbian Parliament about yesterday's accident. With regard to the comment my esteemed predecessor made, the 1891 Forests Act, as well as the current forest law, contained so-called. restrictions in the general interest of property rights. Whenever there is some property that is of national importance, such as the forest, the agricultural land that feeds the nation, the cultural well-being, the property is not complete. So it's limited by the state, in general interest. In that sense, he imposed this forest law on the owner, whether it was a church or a peasant, or a state, of a certain obligation. The forest law now imposes the same obligations in the general interest. So this forest property, which will return to the churches, will be subject to these same obligations in the general interest as any other property. You see, you just showed that devastated forest, i.e. how state property can be inefficient. I expect that the churches will manage both forests and other properties more domestically than the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27390	Here you go. On the occasion of the amendment, MP Marko Krstin called.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27391	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to forests, agricultural land and other real estates, our Constitution guarantees the equality of property forms, knowing a quality form that practically doesn't exist with us anymore, it's social property. However, this does not interfere with the remaining quality forms being even. So, civil legal persons, such as the church, can be the owners of all immovableities. Also, I have to tell you that there are no maximums in the legal system anymore, there are no restrictions that would be institutionally set to prohibit the church from having or not having something in its possession. Such restrictions would not be constitutional and would not lead to legal certainty. So, I think the fully established billmaker here has made it possible for the churches, as well as anyone who's been taken from something, to return what was taken from him. The question is what's coming back to him. He can only be returned with what was taken from him, his property taken from him, so property returns and returns, no less. The proposal to return to the amendments the permanent right of use means that part of the property powers is returned. Let me remind you, it is the right to use, the right to collect fruit and to make things available in the event of death and legal work. If we are talking about the permanent right of use that is proposed here as some kind or copy of property rights, that right was created otherwise right 50 years ago with us, it's practically a product of social property and there's no place in the current legal system, just not when we intend to simply take that social property away from our constitutional system, because it essentially doesn't exist anymore. So there is no place in our legal system for such a product from the right of social property which, for example, still exists on construction land and on certain other things and which will be subject to abolition, means its return to the economic, political and legal system is impossible. Secondly, if we even accepted that permanent right of use, what does that mean, is it just using, is it harvesting? We've heard here it's not available. However, churches and monasteries have been seized from property on real estate, and this property will return to them, no less or less, as well as to any other legal and physical person who has been taken away from something and who is in the process of restitution. I agree with a colleague who talked here about the devastation of the forest. However, in the public interest, as the minister here has said, all immovableities that are subject to this public interest, agricultural land, forest land and any other immovable property, property rights are limited to some extent by state measures. So you can't use something, you can't destroy it. The right of the owner, not only with us, but in all modern countries, is limited by the public interest prescribed by the state. There is no concern that the church will be excluded from that general system. On the contrary, the church enters the general system that forest owners are subject to restrictions imposed upon them by law as well as by all other owners. Therefore, there is no doubt that the question of the forest is not covered. So churches enter the general system of care and availability and use of forests. It's not an exclusive church like any legal person who owns a forest. I want to point out one more time, we don't have a maximum limit, we don't have a power limit. The property's coming back for property. How will the church take care of its own? One guess is pretty real, how he'll worry. Someone who had a list of everything from the immovableity in a square metre, it was a church. So they were ready and entered this process with complete documentation of what was taken from them. I don't see anyone else acting like a good host will be able to behave like this. If we have given all other legal and physical persons the right to property on forests and certain obligations, this will also apply to the church when it comes to the use and availability of this forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27392	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which has determined that conditions have been met to confirm the mandate of the MP. In addition, it suggests that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zvonko Mihajlovic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list – Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. That was the information you got. National MP Milan Stevovic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the name of Head of the Fourth, called Section I, titled above Articles 10 and 10. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Miljko Cetrovic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 11 and 11. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment to article 11, which was submitted by SRS MP Miljko Cevrovic on the draft law. I will again, in some ways, relate to the problem of the forest and to the particular examples I have, all in line with this amendment. The state has somehow made sure that these members avoid most obligations towards churches and religious communities, in terms of property. If Article 11 is consistently implemented, it will not return 10% of the former assets. Again in the case of the seized forests of the Ravanica monastery, it is 1,249 hectares, that the state will, in many cases, remain at its position from 1946. It is the famous military polygon of the Besuljan meadow, probably heard of by many MPs, and many were likely there.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27394	I'm sorry to interrupt. A new MP has come in. Congratulations on his choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27395	So it's a military polygon of the Besuljan meadow. There are constant shooting battles, artillery training, as well as major military exercises. Lately, as Defence Minister Zoran Stankovic, otherwise in charge of the organisation and destruction in our army, is heading towards abolishing military service and reducing the number of professional soldiers, the polygon is likely to relax. For your information, this polygon is located on the ground that until 1946 belonged to the forests of the Ravanica monastery. For orientation, the Pasuljan meadows are located 15km from the Ravanica monastery, where the castles of Prince Lazara rest. For the past few decades, more precisely since 1972, the entire complex of forests, forest land, urinalysis has been badly degraded and probably contaminated by the use of a large number of chemical resources during military training. This monastery land must be given to the permanent use of the Ravanica monastery. It must not be allowed to pay any cash compensation to avoid the loss of state ownership rights, because there is a strong reason to do so. It is well known that NATO's pact has long since taken its eye on the aforementioned polygon, with the intention of building a large military base here. So I doubt the state will give up this former monastery land, because the strategic polygon is very convenient, rarely populated, and that's what suits Americans the most. Thus, if the idea of those who don't care much about national interests is realized, we will have a few kilometers from Lazar Ravanica's checkpoints with American "hammers" and vast spaces that will become a black zone for Serbian citizens. On this particular case, we will see how the state will go, although there will probably be no time, because in a month, this government will go into history, and it will come to the helm of the Serbian country's Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27396	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vojislav Milajic has submitted an amendment proposing that the name Section II, title above Article 16 and Article 16 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27397	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 16. The bill provides for cash compensation for real estates which are subject to return and Article 16 reads: "If the property which is subject to return under this law cannot be returned, the church, or the religious community, has the right to compensation in government bonds issued for that purpose or in cash if the payer is a natural or legal person. In the cases referred to in Article 1(1), the church, i.e. the religious community and the obligor may agree that the church, or the religious community, belongs to other assets. "This bill provides for another way of restoring property to churches and religious communities. The first is in natural form, preferably, if it is identical immovableity, and if not, then the immovableity of similar values and similar quality is given. And secondly, the bill provides for financial compensation. A number of remarks have been made here that giving for permanent use is not an adequate way to return church property and property to religious communities, which is otherwise provided for by the SRS concept as a more adequate way of returning property than is proposed by this law. It was also stated that giving to the permanent use of relapses of communism and social property and that it is a category of social property, however it has absolutely nothing to do with the real state of affairs and what the Constitution of Serbia foresees, because the Constitution of Serbia does not provide for a property return of state property, but there is the possibility of giving for permanent use. It is also mentioned that certain forms of property, primarily those related to immovable property, agricultural land, forest land, forests, building land, are subject to a certain regime of public-law restrictions. So, despite the fact that the right of property, guaranteed by the Constitution and by the laws, there is always a certain kind of restrictions on the availability of certain property because of some of the general interests. That's right here, the property taken away by churches and religious communities would be returned through adequate immovableities, forest land, agricultural and other forms of immovableity, and if it's not possible to return that very immovableity, in Article 4, we intervened and left the possibility of it being another similar immovableity, it means being exclusively a form of natural return. The only exception is to regress. This means that if the church and the religious community have somehow managed to recover their seized property, which was seized from 1945 to 1958, by means of a cash regression from the state and in a lawful manner, this should certainly be supported, as provided for in Article 20. This should be the only exception where the compensation for seized property will be made for churches and religious communities. Compared to the monetary compensation provided for in the second and four members who regulate the area, the SRS consistently consistent with its concept of the method of compensation of the church and the religious communities of the amendment intervened. We believe that it is only possible in accordance with the Constitution, where churches and religious communities will be given property for permanent use, and we think it is in the interest of churches and religious communities, that it will not be damaged if that property is returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27398	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sreto Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 17 and 17 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17 by reminding Serbian MPs and the public that an amendment to this law has been submitted, submitted by Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic, and we propose that this law be called – the Law on the permanent use of property to churches and religious communities. Already my colleague Vojislav Milajic, explaining his amendment to Article 16. The bill, he noted, was in the second part of this law compared to the Head of Law, where money compensation to churches and religious communities in the name of the seized property is mentioned. Article 17 reads: "The amount of compensation for the seized property is determined according to the state of the property at the time of the confiscation, and according to its value at the time of the first-degree settlement. The Restitution Directorate will establish a methodology for determining the value of the assets referred to in Article 1." I have proposed by amendment that the title above Article 17, so – "Determining the value of the property" and a complete member of the 17 is deleted, for the reason that the SRS is consistent in its concept, when it comes to giving property to the permanent use of churches and religious communities, and only applies to the permanent use of the property, if possible, of the same property that was taken away during any period, and if that is not possible, then the replacement for any other property. The SRS believes that parts that are under the forest, or land that is under the forest, should be returned to churches, or religious communities, if taken from them, and MP Radisa Ilic has only highlighted some practical problems that may arise in the way of mastering. We also think that churches and religious communities can and will host the land, that is, all the property that is returned to them. Our request and the explicit view is that only natural form comes into consideration, and at no time does not take into account monetary compensation, for the reason that it can come, as said in Article 18, that the state will settle its obligations on the basis of the bonds, until the deadlines are extended. I therefore submit this amendment, that the granting of property to the permanent use of churches and religious communities should be exclusively in natural form. I suggest that Members of Parliament vote on this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27400	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Cvetanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 18 and 18 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Privatisation Committee tabled an amendment to Article 18. The representative of the committee's proposal has adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ljubomir Kragovic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 19 and 19. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on the return of property to churches and religious communities. The amendment applies to Article 19, and I ask that the title above the article be changed and that it be read – "Right to the loss of profit" and that Article 1 is deleted. To explain everything I asked for, therefore, the title is: "Accounting the received and lost profits", and in my proposal, "Right to the loss of profit", so I think this solution that I have proposed is far better and more effective for the bill itself. This article has two positions, and I suggest that the 1st position be deleted, and it reads: "Reimbursed property and paid compensation to churches and religious communities according to current regulations are taken into account and will be included in the bill of compensation under this law". If someone was in debt, this one returned the funds, because it was a job that was completed and there was no need to point out that what had already been paid back or paid compensation to churches and religious communities would be considered. I don't see a reason, because if something is returned, it's back. It is now owned by a church or a religious community, and it is enough that this second member stands: "It cannot be claimed that the damage is due to the loss of profit due to the inability to use, or to manage the seized property, as well as to maintain it in the period from the day of withdrawal until its return". I therefore propose that the National Assembly accept this solution in the voting day, because the solution of technical nature and clearly defines the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27402	National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the title above article 21 and to amend Article 21. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 22 and 22 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27403	On Article 26, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, for the reason I believe that the property that has been seized from the monastery's possessions in time, since it has changed its ownership, and in time it has become state property, this is the only and most correct way to make such property available for permanent use of churches and religious communities. Therefore, I propose that Article 26 of the introductory phrase of Article 1 is amended and that it reads: "The application for the permanent use of the assets of Article 23 of this Act contains the data", which states that the delivery is required by the Directorate, and the SRS has proposed that for these registrations, therefore for the seized property, the Ministry of Finance be in charge, and that it be in charge of the refund. Also, the proposed amendment requires that, in point 2(2), the words "or his legal follower" are deleted, for the reason that, in my opinion, something that is impossible and which points to certain thinking, because, when it says "legal follower", it points to thinking who could be a legal follower of a concrete religious community, if we speak specifically about churches, which has never happened through the history of development of the SPC, and I think it will never happen, because as long as there is a Serbian people, I think there will be a SPC. However, in order to accept this amendment, it is also necessary to accept previous amendments to the SRS, and in particular to be able to accept this amendment to Article 26, it is necessary to accept, as provided for in Article 23 and the SRS amendment to Article 23 of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27404	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovanovic submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 29 of the amendment by the MEP, the Government and the Privatisation Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27405	Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't get the impression that the MPs of the SRS have come unseriously to this job, I will briefly recapitulate our amendments and the fact that not all MPs are coming out to explain them. Those who do not go out are not there because they are now outside the chapel where they send the body of the late Miroslav Nedeljkovic from Belgrade, and we who are here have not appeared under these amendments because they can essentially have the same explanation for all the amendments. So I'm going to say once again what the essence of our amendments were and what our intention was when we put up with them. So it's about the Law, as you wrote, about the return, or the restoration of property to churches and religious communities. The bottom line is that we Serbian radicals don't mind going to churches and religious communities, but not to return, but to be given the permanent use of once-absorbed property. Our amendments are exactly that way. I will remind you that since we have submitted amendments to each article, based on these amendments, we have made a consolidated text of the bill and gave this consolidated text to Minister Parivodić and all MP groups, because it was our sincere intention to really bring this law, to bring it through the will of the majority or unanimously, and in this case it could have happened, but you have not shown such a will, because it is obvious that the government's intention is not to return this property, but this is just another marketing trick of theirs. Yesterday I told you, I also told you in the principle debate, many of our MPs told you, if you don't adopt our amendments, you will first of all bring unconstitutional legislation, and then it will be illusory, Minister, that you point out that you are a graduate lawyer and a doctor, because as such you should not propose unconstitutional law to the National Assembly. The further problem will be in the application of this law, and this will also be one of the large numbers of laws that this congregation majority has passed, which are out there somewhere in some drawers and which, in fact, cannot be applied. Our intention was not to stain the eyes of churches and religious communities, but to sincerely help churches and religious communities by taking away their property for permanent use. I must point out that with this attitude of ours, the majority of the dignitaries of the SPC agree. With the respect of all others, we Serbian radicals care deeply about the SPC's opinion. Before we embarked on this amendment business, Mr Tomislav Nikolic held certain talks with high-ranking SPCs. So our amendments are what is the request or wish of the SPC and there is no reason not to be the demand and desire of other traditional churches and religious communities. What they need and what they want is what is contained in the amendments to the SRS. You can't say you're returning property because there's no such term in the Constitution, because it's contrary to the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday I told you, you should have put out of force that law or changed it, and you could hardly change it, because change in this sense would also be unconstitutional. You could also truly engage in the adoption of a new constitution, as you have spoken for years, since that five-eyed revolution, that some new constitution will mean a better life for the citizens of Serbia. We have told you that this is not true and of course it is not true, especially that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is good enough, there are some shortcomings, some archaisms that should have really changed. Among other things, it's a question of social property that figures in our Constitution. Now I ask you, since you won't bring the Constitution, when I say you won't, first of all I mean the MPs of the ruling majority and those "yellows" who don't participate in the work, we know that you won't bring it because the new constitution would mean new elections, and you don't go into that adventure. I'm telling you it wouldn't be an adventure for Serbia, but rather, something that Serbian citizens can't wait for and wish for. When you claimed, it was very often heard that the new constitution meant a better life for the citizens of Serbia, and since the citizens of Serbia do not live better, but live worse every day, then a logical conclusion is that you know the solution to how to make the citizens live better, but you will not help them because you do not want them to live better. Now a little more concrete about this law and this amendment. Minister, it would be good, and if not the minister, then fellow MPs, to properly understand the SRS' sincere intention when it comes to this bill. You can see we've never intervened this way before. We've been making amendments, we've been conceptually changing your laws. This time it was our sincere intention to pass the acceptable law, acceptable to both the state and the church, and in this constitution, which is probably the basis of the law. Permanent use wouldn't change anything compared to what the need is, again, to say, desire, demand, however you want, churches, because the churches certainly don't want their property returned to them to make it available in the sense that they sell it, resell it, etc. Churches aren't entrepreneurs. And we also think that, through our amendments, it's been followed through the whole law, property should be given to permanent use exclusively in natural form, not as a cash compensation, because it's certainly not a request, primarily the SPC, and I believe not the other churches. What else does it matter? It is important that the obligor is exclusively the Republic of Serbia in the application of this law. No one else, under our Constitution and under the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, can be. And then Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment to Article 21, which concerning the amendment to Article 29, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and in these amendments, in fact in Krasic's amendment, was required to be responsible for implementing this law by state authorities, namely the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic Property Directorate. Nothing more than that, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary, these organs have both personnel and data, and there's no reason to engage in the formation of any more paraorgans, some Directorate, as you called it, for restitution. I have to tell you that I believe that there is little anyone who understands what this Directorate means to you and that it is unacceptable for you to build foreign expressions into laws. The other day I was telling you about your new law speech, Croatian, Ustasha, now some restitution. I don't think there's any need for you to make the law more important to you this way. So, the establishment of that directorate, as you called it, for restitution, would only mean an increase in the clerk's apparatus, and basically nothing would get. First, it wouldn't come to terms with efficiency, or time. Imagine, now you're planning on forming some directorate, so bringing some of your people into that directorate, so the question of how many of these people are able and trained to do this job, and you have, therefore, finished, finished people who've already dealt with the team. You know, you haven't invented, as you say, eradicating injustice, and some of you before you, what you do, or as you predict, will be eradicating injustice by causing some new injustices, which is certainly not the intention of churches and religious communities. So, they were returning to Serbia and the mornings and pastures of villages for use, returning to Serbia and agricultural land, taken away by PZF and by land maximum, right, Miko? Only agricultural land was returned, as a colleague is trying to say, that job I've been doing for ten years and I know perfectly well, that land that was owned by a tenant was returned, and where there was real use it couldn't have been returned, right? Of course it is. It is possible that this job can be brought down to the level of municipalities, i.e. local self-government, but in the sense that within these local self-governments, commissions are formed from the already existing people of lawyers, geometrys, it is known which professions can be done and that it is well done as expected. And in that sense is my amendment, where I predicted that instead of the Directorate, the Ministry would determine all the facts, etc. Of course, here you said, "on the subject's right to restitution", which is an unacceptable term, and the essence, of course, so that's where it was supposed to stand -- "giveing for permanent use". In this amendment, as well as in paragraph 2, there have been changes. Basically, there are formal changes in this amendment. Formal, in the sense that instead of this Restitution Directorate of yours stands – the Ministry of Finance, and where you said – "restitution", or "return", to say that it is – "given for permanent use". So, what's the point, once again, in one sentence. What we would return to churches and religious communities, or to give to them for the permanent use of that property, would remain state property. Permanent use implies all rights, absolute rights, except, of course, the rights to be made available, in terms of resales, continue to be sold. We claim that this is not the intention of those to whom this property should be given for permanent use. I call you once again, here, remember and believe, if you do not accept our amendments and if you do not edit the bill as we have proposed, you will have to make changes and supplements very quickly, or all newspapers will again be filled with texts about how another law has been passed. So this church is looking for this, that church is looking for that, and the one that's applying it, in that one of your Restitution Directorates, will find that there's no legal basis and that it can't grant such a request. And in the end, I see I've wasted my time, just one more sentence. I didn't hear that you were publicly concerned about what happened yesterday in all the newspapers in Serbia and in all the media. Remember, they were so far-fetched – horror and such things, and this is the threat of the dispersion of Miras Dedejic to take over 750 temples and churches of SPC in Montenegro. They took some of the territory, they took some of the Serbian people, and now they want to do this with churches, and unfortunately I haven't seen public reactions from those expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27406	There will be public reactions, of course. But, Mrs. Radeta, did I get that right? At the beginning of the clarification, you gave yet another detailed conceptual reason why your parliamentary group submitted amendments in this way and for which, due to some additional obligations, it might not explain further. They will? Only the MPs present. I'm talking about the obligation of everyone to take care of it. Does anyone else need to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Kristin. Otherwise, the law, because it was a parliamentary issue, so it was not sent, there was no need, the Agricultural Land Act arrived in due time and will be discussed at the next session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27407	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really couldn't agree with the concept. I believe that there is a right for every member of Parliament to have some concept, and this is indeed one consistently developed concept of a permanent right of use. However, I must tell you that property taken by churches and property must return. If we return a derivative, such as "permanent right of use", then we don't actually know the contents of that right. In the legal theory, but also in the nomenclature, it means in laws when it comes to real rights, they are limited by kind. This is about real law, so property is really right, and property is derived from other real rights that can be real service, when it comes to immovableity, and personal service, when it comes to other things related to 'intuittuit personae', for a person. So, I find some permanent right to use only in the Law of Joint Labour and the earlier laws on building land, and there is indeed what has been established with a certain content. These laws, as constituents of a permanent right of use, no longer exist in the legal system. I don't see the possibility of re-establishing this right, especially if we are going towards a constitutional reform to completely rule out social property, which practically doesn't exist in the legal system. It is a system consistently implemented in these amendments, however, I do not see the possibility of doing it in such a way. Secondly, I can't even see the celery for this, in my opinion, the key solution that's being offered. Because again, we assume that the state authorities, so the Ministry of Finance or some other state body, would take better care of the property of the church than the church itself. I think we need to get away from that system and we're already a few big steps away from that system, that we think the state could take better care of private property than I own that property. Well, the essence of the system that proved to be economically superior is that the owner of things manages things in the way that he can. He's the only one with the right motive to do it the right way. All other substitutes, in the form of state, para-state forms, do not guarantee economically celery and proper availability of property. Its property is best equipped with one who owns it, and churches, monasteries, monastery lands and forests will best be equipped with a church. The Church has legal status and we have no reason to suspect that control of the exercise of certain powers, such as powers in the area of immobilization, would be better done by the state, let's say by contract, than the church would do as the owner. On the contrary, I think the church takes better care of the property and those interests that are key to performing the function of that church. The church has shown this, this SPC, which I belong to, because since 1219, it has performed a function in this country, regardless of all shifts, on all of me and the changes that have occurred in this geographical space and in this people. It is indeed a guarantee that we cannot now appoint a tutor in the form of some state and para-state bodies who would take better care of the interests of the church when it comes to immovableities. Conceptually, I think on the contrary, I think the owner of the property, especially the church, will take better care of his property.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27408	Please, does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Please note that the conceptual differences, the multiple debate and in the principle debate, I am not only thinking about you, Mr. Krstin, of Mrs. Radet, who spoke earlier, but simply all together we discussed this in detail, and I ask that when we talk about amendments, we concentrate on the additional aspect of the amendment. Those present, of course, MPs who are authors of the amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the messenger Mit Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31, where I have asked for the words "The Directorate is due" to be replaced by the words "The Ministry is due". It's for the simple reason that we've seen ourselves before through all our amendments, the logical sequence of previous amendments submitted is that we don't even agree with that Directorate. Namely, the ministry appoints the Agency, appoints a director of the Directorate, and someone who will appeal the decision of the Directorate has no right to appeal. He doesn't have the right to appeal in that directorate, but he has the right to conduct an administrative dispute. For this reason, I also suggested that the words "The Directorate is bound to" be deleted and the words "The Ministry is required", where I think it will be able to function more effectively and work. If someone is in charge of all this administrative dispute, it can be extended and it can last indefinitely. It's just another indicator. We discussed this law back in 2005, when we adopted it in the Assembly, and we said it was just a kind of good intention, and in this denationalisation, as well as what procedure it would be done, it would return, that there would be a lot of complications, and that none of the directorates could solve, but, according to us, it should solve the ministry and it should be just, as it should be. The Directorate will be overwhelmed by many requests from churches and by foreign religious facilities. I'm sure everyone will have a desire to do it quickly, to get it all back more efficiently, but that's not gonna work out for sure, something might not come back until after twenty years. If the SRS comes to power in the next election, I am sure that we will do much better this law, just as we have sought through these amendments and that in a much more effective way everything will be returned to the citizens, not only as far as churches and religious objects are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27410	We're not talking green grass now. Anyone else? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment requesting that paragraph 1 of Article 33 of the word "judgment or" be deleted, and paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "Decision on the granting of permanent use of property and the right to regress is exercised by the Ministry". What the SRS stands for, and what the SRS MPs are now talking about, is the view that churches and religious communities must be given property for permanent use, instead of the possibility of taking the property away from the state register. First of all, this is about huge amounts, it is a difficult estimated amount in total value, primarily real estate, forest, as well as agricultural land. However, in almost the whole of the law, the government seems to be trying to slow down this process through some institutions and to turn to the side track. This article shall, in part, rely on a judicial execution, as referred to in Article 2, where cash compensation is mentioned again. To ensure that Serbian citizens who are following this debate understand what proportions it is, it is enough to say that it is the areas of the forest, the morning, the pastures, of more than 100,000 hectares, plus real estate in all the cities of Serbia. When I say real estate, I mean a large number of buildings in very good locations, which are now mostly taken over by tycoons, foreign banks or alienated in other ways. The very idea that part of this property could be paid, as the government persistently pushes through most members, would primarily lead this government to extremely large amounts that the state will certainly not settle. The amendment to the SRS explicitly requires that Section 2 reads: "The decision to grant permanent use of property and the right to regress is exercised by the Ministry". Where is the proposed member of the 33rd by the Government of Orders – permanent use? She's not here. This shows the real intention of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, that the churches and monasteries of the SPC will remain short sleeves. They'll throw dust in their eyes, giving them back some ice with two or three bushes, some plowing building, but that major, valuable property is going to try to buy at some revolving prices. In Article 33, paragraph 2, which the SRS requires to delete, the Ministry of Finance is also mentioned, which will do its best as well, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic will save the bag from buying the forest and other wealth from the church. He wants it, but only for those areas and areas that are rich in quality wood mass, which are suitable for the development of tourism and the most important areas, areas that are rich in drinking water. The reason is simple, a legal solution for the lease will later be found, the concession of these natural goods to those who will profit well from all of it. The SRS is likely to prevent this robbery after an early parliamentary election in the fall, as Dinkic and others converted resignations for October 1st, another one in a row from the case lovers, by coming to power in Serbia by the will of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27412	Mr. Ilic, if you're interested in the timing of the election, I'll discuss Monday's election for the president of the municipality in Uzic, in July 2nd. That's what the facts are. Mr. Vlaovic, about the same amendment. Here you go. Also, I'm taking the opportunity to inform you, it's planned to vote on the agenda points, when the search is over, if it's all right, it starts at 13.00 hours. It will certainly be with a break, because the vote will last longer than four hours, given the number of amendments, so simply schedule all your time. Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic, for waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of Vojislav Kostunica is not throwing dust in the eyes, as the previous speaker said, but this law wants to correct a historical injustice more than 60 years old. In a fair way, churches came to property, gifts, duties and legates, 60 years spent with small funds on one wind, especially the SPC, which was more exposed to the communist wind than any other church. Your proposal to give for permanent use, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm a host, I'm afraid you find the church unworthy to manage the property to have a tutor. The property, gentlemen, should have a tenant. A little three- or four-year-old kid knows what his toy is. He's got her and he's got her. Each of your assets is best guarded. You don't have to make a fuss so he doesn't have to come back. I don't know how many forests and pastures belong to churches, but since I'm a farmer, I know exactly that a total of 34,000 hectares of agricultural land have been taken away from all churches and religious communities and some 6,000 hectares have been kidnapped in Kosovo and Metohija. At this point in state property, there are more than 300,000 hectares of farmland. So, without trouble, the woods, ores and pastures can return. The buildings will be paid for and the church, as well as the religious communities, will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27414	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic. Any other MPs? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Let's stick to a clear deal, I hope. The word is Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported by amendment to Article 34, which was submitted by SRS MP Zoran Antic, in which he is asked to replace the words "return" with the words "given for permanent use". This amendment by MP Zoran Antic is based on what was said in the previous amendment, as well as on the position of the SRS. This is about giving on permanent use of property. Why is it so hard for the Proposer to write exactly what the SRS is looking for? The return order itself does not guarantee that the property for which it is known will not be retaken or transformed in respect of the payment of the fee. The difference between giving on permanent use, which is being advocated by the SRS, and the return of property, represented by the government, is large. I will return again, in order to show on the occasion, to the monastery forests of Manasija and the monastery of Ravanica, which belong to Braničevska eparchy, and today they are part of the South Kučat forest land in Despotovac. From the topographic maps attached, and now I'm going to show you that MPs can see (show topographic map).
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27416	Mr. Ilic, if it makes you feel any better, take an example of Prizren, it might be easier for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27417	Prizren, it's everywhere where the monastery woods have been taken away. That example is unique.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27418	I understand completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27419	As in Pomoravsky County, I'm talking about what I know for sure. They clearly show springs of all mountain rivers in the area. In a way, it can be said that our monasteries and churches were the keepers of the spring water of that greatest wealth that Serbia today has. These oasis of Serbian forests were protected from cutting, destruction, as it would disrupt the ecosystem and the natural flow of centuries would be real. What would happen after clean cuts, for those who don't know it, are clean cuts when you literally don't leave a single tree in a certain space and would disappear by the time of the spring and the machinery would arrive, forest roads would be dug up, which would cut the connections between the springs. What can occur as the worst option, is but these surfaces are bought, so the monasteries and the SPC are paid for indemnity, and the tycoons are given rich water deposits. That is why the Serbian government is also seeking to pay compensation for certain church property. This is probably not a lonely example when it comes to the properties of the monastery, i.e. the SPC and other areas where the Serb people live. There, water springs were owned by Serbian monasteries. So, if this government really intends to return the seized property to the churches permanently, then the SRS amendment, which was submitted by MP Zoran Antic, should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27420	Thank you, Mr. Ilic, and I'm sorry for the interruption, but I have an extra map, too, so I thought maybe they could help you. Thank you. Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Privatisation Committee tabled an amendment to Article 36. The representative of the committee's proposal has adopted the amendment. I did not look at these reports that came from the Legislative Committee, if he accepted, during the vote we will declare that he has become an integral part of the bill. Today, among other things, the amendments submitted by the committees were discussed. As you know, the committees may, after the debate has been concluded, open the debate in detail on the amendment. Thank you. I'm asking if anyone wants to talk about this amendment that's probably become an integral part of the law. No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nikola Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 36 is another attempt to show that we are consistent in our principled attitude to replace the word "return" with the words "give for permanent use". We explained during the long discussion why our attitude is so and I would not repeat it. In the entire text of the bill, including in a member who speaks of transitional and final provisions, we think that the word "return" should be replaced by the words "given for permanent use".
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27422	Reports have also arrived on Article 36, to which the amendment was submitted by the Privatisation Committee of the National Assembly. I find that the 36th member has become an integral part of the bill, but we will still see that during the vote. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38, which I ask to be deleted. Article 38 says, "The government will appoint a director of the Directorate within a month of the date of entry into force of this law." The five-proposed law provides for a procedure for the exercise of rights and in Article 21 is proposed to educate the Restitution Directorate as a special organisation. This is against the SRS concept. The SRS believes that a state apparatus should be rational, efficient, cheap, and by forming a Directorate, which is absolutely unnecessary, this apparatus encourages red tape, unnecessary costs, and I am absolutely convinced that it cannot be even efficient. If we Serbian radicals feel that the Directorate is not needed, that it is too high, then it is a very discussionable thought that the government should be in accordance with Article 38. The draft law shall be appointed by the Director of the Directorate within a month of the date of entry into force of this law. I have no illusion that you will accept this amendment, which may change something, as well as most of the amendments of the SRS, which, behold, we may be able to help this law be applicable in practice. So far, everything the Serbian Government proposes to the National Assembly is absolutely not showing applicability in practice and it is one of the characteristics of your draft laws. Purely marketing, propaganda, there is an illusion that something is being done, we've been killed by work, but unfortunately, Serbian citizens don't feel it in practice. I must say, Mr. Secretary is here, as an MP for the SRS a little surprised by your nervous advance yesterday. Mr. Minister, for what it's worth, if you think about it, you're not here to control the MPs, you're here to control the government and you, each minister in person, so those emotions you showed weren't appropriate to the National Assembly and the elemental right of MPs. I guess it's one of the basic postulates of democracy, that the MP controls executive power, so my grudge would go that way. I hope you accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27424	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) You reminded me well, you are absolutely right, the local authorities, the circuit authorities and the various parts of the executive powers, on behalf of all of you, as president of the National Assembly, in writing and verbally, I remind you, late in the implementation of many laws, but otherwise a large number of laws show their facts, and therefore those changes and additions we talked about, only for a year or two for a whole series of reasons that you have stated. We must do what is the basis of the legal arrangement and thank you for taking an adequate part in it. Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does Dr Milan Parivodic, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, want a final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very comprehensive debate on the law on the return of church property and property of other religious communities. Now in the final word, I would just recapture the main elements of that rather long debate. What is the difference between the SRS amendment and the text of the bill? The first objection the SRS insisted on was that it should not be returned to property, but that property should remain state-owned over this nationalised property, and that churches and other religious communities should receive a permanent right of use. That is, in fact, the fundamental question of disseminating the entire debate, which I consider to be constructive on both sides. I believe that the representatives of the SRS, with deep conviction, argued their views, but also the proponent with strong confidence remained in his views. When you have a division, as one of the respected predecessors said, between property powers, then no one actually feels the host of that property. So one uses the property, and the other one owns the property. Typically, whenever you have this division of property powers, that property is neither kept nor invested in it as much as it takes to run the household. It is only when the situation is fully cleared and it is known who owns it, when the same owner uses that property, and especially when it comes to assets of general interest, such as agricultural or forest land which must be processed or in a limited amount of cutting, that is when it is very important that we have a clear rightholder, a clear owner. Secondly, this concept of shared property really represents an archaic form that is definitely coming out of our legal system, so that we would introduce one systemic disorder and actually contribute to our own irresponsibleness if we didn't give the church property, but passed on the right of use. For this reason, I have persistently rejected your concept of restitution, not from some stubbornness, but from the deep conviction of these arguments that I have made, in principle, your concept of restitution, or giving to use church property. The second complaint by the SRS was that no compensation should be paid, i.e. money in exchange for assets that could not be recovered. I believe that the church would be discriminated against by other benefits, users of the restitution of denationalisation, and brought into an unfair position. Like any other entity in law and churches and other religious communities, they must be equal to other legal entities, they must not be discriminated against and we must not be the ones to assess whether the church is necessary or not, if it is her money. The basic concept of denationalisation is that those whose property has been taken away, nationalised from the aspect of our political beliefs, are considered owners and that their rights must be protected. You don't consider them, as I understand it, to the owners, nor do we as a state in that denationalization do them any special favors by paying them back their property. We believe politically differently, because we believe that they are equal owners, as well as current owners. So we think the seizure was illegal. Under these circumstances, the illegality of confiscation during the communist system stems from the process of denationalisation and represents one civilization process throughout Eastern Europe, which was under the communist system. The third complaint that appeared systematically by the SRS was a matter of constitutionality. Serbia's constitution in Article 72 clearly states that it is the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia to regulate property and bond relations. This is a clear question of property and bond relations and solutions contained in this law that define certain solutions of other laws and represent specific, i.e. special solutions to the general rules contained in some other laws. This again stems from the circumstances of our deep political belief that we must give justice that was denied at the time of the communist system, to put citizens in equal status, regardless of whether they are so-called. the old owners or the current owners of the property. The fourth systematic remark was – why the Directorate. If we let this process take place through a whole range of state authorities, without being focused and not representing the responsibility of one authority, then there would be marginalisation of the whole process of denationalisation and no body would be the main business. We want to have an organ whose denationalization is the main business and whose success is measured by how quickly that denationalisation will take place, and if it does not do so properly, to say practically – you have not done the job that is entrusted to you and you have to bear both political and legal consequences. That is why we are convinced, and so is the experience in the countries of Eastern Europe, that it is necessary that there is an authority at national level that will have offices, not in every municipality, but regional offices, seven-eight offices in larger cities, there will be people who want their property back, who will be able to turn around, so that they won't all have to come to Belgrade, and neither will the office in Belgrade be burdened. But all these offices have to be electronically networked, because it's one office with multiple limits. In any case, these are arguments which are why this time, unlike other laws, where I absolutely accepted your arguments when I thought they were superior, I don't have that vanity, I accept that, and here I stood firm in my attitudes based on this argument that I made. I think this law will be a good basis and precedent for the adoption of a general law on denationalisation. I expect that we, as the Serbian Government, will propose a general law on denationalisation, with respect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in September and I think that this will serve the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, that this process may even begin and get a good momentum in our mandate. For this reason, it is an honor and pleasure to propose to your attention and adoption to the proposal for a law on the return of property to churches and other religious communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27426	Thank you, Mr. Parivodic, thank you all for your responsibilities when it comes to Directorates and the Agency, and I ask you to have understanding, since the National Assembly is spoken in the language of the people – whom the snakes have bitten and the lizard fears. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since a single search has been carried out for the 17th point, we are moving to a unique search of the 18th agenda. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Miloljub Albianic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no members of parliament's groups registered, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Milos Aligrudic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no members of parliament's groups registered, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine today, May 25, 2006, at 13.05 p.m. as voting day. Thank you so much for your responsibility. I remind you, the vote will continue, according to the number of amendments, between three and four hours, if it reads quickly by the chairman. Thank you. [[After break – 13,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when you've finished your phone calls, let's start with a vote. Before we start voting, please determine if we have a voting quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall. Before we begin the vote, MP Aleksandar Vukic reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27428	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as colleagues, as people who do the same work, yesterday we interrupted the debate on an important issue at the time of the tragedy, when MP of the National Assembly Miroslav Nedeljkovic, I do not wish to single him out as a Serbian radical, tragically deceased. We discussed what campaigns are being conducted and what is happening in Serbia and what are the consequences. I've brought you the scariest thing you've ever heard and seen. I said yesterday that the government would be ready for anything to get Bor, to take the money after the privatisation of RTB Bor, and now listen to the text that e-mailed the addresses of all the TVs, radios and newspapers in Bora. A ruling regime MP came out after me yesterday and said it wasn't exactly what Vukic is saying, because they'll never mention Branislav Rankic, they won't say anything about him, he's an honest man, but he'll beat their candidate. Ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia, listen to the letter, to see what someone must face, who is the MP. The letter says, "This letter wants to tell the truth that might help people understand the truth and make a good choice for the future. My name is Halim, I've been living in America for eight years, or I've lived in Banja Luka since I was a little girl until that crazy years of 1991-1998. I have two sons who, during the war in Bosnia, suffered from muslims. I am a Muslim by nationality, but my wife is a Serbian, children are raised in the spirit of Serbs, so I even fought on the Serbian side. Why am I actually telling you all this? In particular, because I would like you to publish this, I heard that in Boro there is a current man, a great politician, Branislav Rankic." Otherwise, for Serbian citizens, he is a member of the SRS and a man who currently enjoys the most trust of the Boran, regardless of all the millions invested by the government to win their candidate. It is said further: "What do the citizens of Bora know about the man who was a man who fought on the side of Muslims, who killed Serbs and their wives raped? What do they know about the man who changed his name? His real name is Sejdo Nahri, followed by Interpol's BOLO, etc. "I want to tell you, even though it's none of my business, I just wanted to tell the citizens of Bor what kind of man I can choose for the future mayor, and as I said at the beginning, I have friends, I have a game of cases, in Bor, which I won't name, which I think is one small way to repay. And to support my story, I have something to show, where you can see the gentleman mentioned, which is a pain in the ass. On July 12th, he took a picture in the Drava with his trophy, as he massacred a minor girl, who cut his ears and held a knife on her neck, smiled happily." I can't even read this any further. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is this your wonderful, fair and fair campaign about an honorable man who had two children and who was a soldier of Republika Srpska, about a man who was in eastern Bosnia as a fighter in the Republika Srpska army, about a man who didn't steal anywhere but one groat? I'm yelling at you, you thief, because you did this. That's why I'm yelling because you delivered this because you had a three-party meeting at the hotel and you agreed to do this because you did this, because there's no Halim without a last name and with unnamed friends, as you know, to deliver the day before election silence, because you did it. Now I ask you, how can a man survive after this, how can a man stay alive after this, what will the children tell him? What's the family gonna tell him? Is that your way of robbing the 150m euros you're expecting? Is it because of 150 million euros that someone should get hurt, get killed for the rest of their lives, and he and his family? Is that why you're doing it, is that your job, that honorable and wonderful campaign, because you can't tell him anything in the face, because you can't say he's a thief, that he's a criminal, because you can't say he's dumber, because he's three times smarter than your representative, because you can't beat him in any duel? Do you care so much about one single town, is it that much money that you have to do this, is that it? (President: Time. What black weather? (President: Time according to the Rules of Procedure you requested. Ma, let go of the time, turn me off, warn me, take the money if you want. How long do you wait for Bor to win?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27429	Mr. Wolfie, I'm here in second position, I'm warning you. First I warn you in time, and secondly, I warn you that pre-election silence applies to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27430	Mr. Markovic, about the National Assembly MP, the bandit government sent a mail like this. It's not a pre-election silence, a pre-election silence begins from midnight, which is why you brought this garbage to the day before the election silence, to address the man and to tell the voters. An honorable man who fought in the Republika Srpska Army to say something like this and to make this up because he's honest, because you can't buy it, because you know he won't let you give twice as much money to RTB Bor. Is that what you think? And this doesn't matter, it's an hour, a few of us in Bora are looking at almost nobody. I ask you, is this how you feel about working in Serbia the next day? There are a few of us who have learned that, Toma Nikolic, that he killed grandparents in Antino, and I don't even know where, that he's been campaigning for a month, and I wanted to kill my mother and I don't know what everything. What, 74 mistresses? No problem, but leave the other people, they didn't learn to do it. These people are ordinary hosts and haven't learned about your dirt and everything you're capable of doing to get your hands on the authorities. Now, that's your fair campaign and that's what you promised the citizens and Bora and Serbia. I can't even think about it, and that's what I'm telling you, what all Serbian radicals are going to do when they wait for results and how they're going to keep power over some new and other elections. Go as hard as you want. Get ready for this, get ready for you all to be multiple killers and not know what you're doing or how. I call on the citizens of Serbia to oppose this insolence and this insolence in every place and finally see who they are dealing with. With people who have nothing to say to your face, who can't tell you anything, and then, on the other hand, they show up and they send their pamphlets to the public. I ask you now, how does Branislav Rankic feel, how do his children, his wife feel? Think about it before you interrupt me next time, because this is not going to work out in Serbia, this is not going to work out. I'm warning you, don't be the generator of the big crisis and the big problems. The problems, the riots, the riots we never wanted, but we'll protect our people in every place and we won't let you destroy their family and their lives like this and spoil their reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27431	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27432	Thank you, thank you and the citizens of Serbia for knowing how to evaluate you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27433	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. If I understand correctly, getting to know the contents of the pamphlet was in the position of defending the dignity of the MP, because it refers to the member of the SRS, the MP, right? Thank you. Now we can move on. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about addressing the Rules of Procedure. Now we can proceed with the announced order of work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the NATIONAL STRATEGY OF THE REFORM OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE I ask for a little concentration, a whole series of amendments for which we will vote are part of what the committees have proposed, whether legislative, whether Government, and also concerns MPs from the second order, please simply concentrate. Part of those amendments were not possible to become an integral part of the law, for procedural reasons. We're going to vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search into the proposal for a decision, we move on to a decision on amendments. On point 4. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 110, there were no 18 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Since we have concluded our decision on the amendment, I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the establishment of a National Strategy for Justice Reform, as a whole. For 125, against one, five out of 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a National Strategy for Justice Reform. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE As the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft Code of Criminal Procedure to the vote, in principle. For 124, against one, not five, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, I remind you that by written amendment the MPs withdrew: Ljiljana Nestorović to Articles 70, 73 and 323; Gjorge Mamula to Articles 7, 15, 22, 254, 328, 343, 350, 359, 366, 380, 390, 392, 399, 404 and 433 and Vladimir Homan to Articles 249, 323 and 326. Proposal for a Code. Before we move to a decision on amendments, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare on legal and technical editorials of the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was carried out by the Legislative Committee. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee containing legal and technical editorials of the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I am putting the vote on the legal-technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. (President Vojislav Mihailovic) For 123, 7 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the legal and technical regulations carried out by the Legislative Committee. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, 15 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, he did not vote 21 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, he did not vote 21 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 26 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 7th Amendment, with the correction, was filed by the Verse of Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 15 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, against one, it did not vote 13, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted the title above article 18 and Article 18 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 20 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, they did not vote 22 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Verse of Radet. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, against two, there were 10 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, they did not vote 24 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, they did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 19 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, it did not vote 12 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 110, 19 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 108, against one, with three abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, they did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, it did not vote 16 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic was submitted to the 46th amendment by the government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 110, it did not vote 20 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 67th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan to article 71. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 71, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 17 of the 130 MPs did not vote for 113. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. An MP named Vladimir Human has submitted to the 79th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 69, it did not vote 19 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 81st amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 103, 26 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 82 and 82 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic to article 86. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, there were no abstentions, they did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan to article 87. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 73, they did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 95th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, they didn't vote 32, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 99th Amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 101st amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 27 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 103 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP George Mamula. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 66, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan to Article 129. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 71, he did not vote 31, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Article 136 and Article 136 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted the title above Article 137 and Article 137 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic to the title above Articles 138 and 138. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted the amendment to Article 139. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 146, MP Sreto Peric submitted the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 30 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted the amendment to Article 146. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 110, 17 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 146 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 76, 23 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 151st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 22, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment to Article 152. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 153rd Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 156, the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 95, 32 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, 23, 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 158th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 159th Amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 160th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 161st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 30 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 162 by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 25 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 163rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan to Article 163 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 69, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 164 by Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 168th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, it was not 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 178th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 16 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 113. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 60, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 196 by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 69, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Jovan Palalic submitted to Article 201 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The 205th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 219th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109, he did not vote 21 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. On Article 268, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government didn't accept the amendment with the correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 270th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verice Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 270th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There was no 13 vote for 117, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 272 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Article 273 and Article 273 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 35 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 275th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 277th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 277th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 15 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 114. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. On Article 278, the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Vladimir Homan. The government didn't accept the amendment with the correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 63, 36 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 317. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 22, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 323rd amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 344th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic to Article 380. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 16 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 113. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted the amendment to Article 382. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, it did not vote 13, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic to Article 382. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 18 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 111. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 388 by Ambassador George Mamul. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 110, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 388th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 103, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 393 by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to Article 398. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 112, against two, it did not vote 15 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 406 of the amendment was filed by Ambassador George Mamul. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 17 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 112. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan to Article 416. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 15 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 114. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 457th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 15 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 114. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 534th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, it did not vote 14 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 537th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 17 of the 128 MPs did not vote for 111. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic is a member of the 544th Amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 21 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 550th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 101, there was no vote of 23, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 555th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, it did not vote 18 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 555th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, it did not vote 11 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have finished voting on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. For 121 against one, it did not vote seven out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Training of Judges, Public Prosecutors, Deputy Public Prosecutors and Judges and Prosecutors since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants, in principle. For 120, it did not vote 8 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision by amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 33 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 32 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan Stevovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 24 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 34 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, they did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 98, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants, in general. For 114, against one, it did not vote 13, out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT OF COURT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. For 112, against one, did not vote 16 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by Zoran Krasic. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with a correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 102, two abstentions, no vote of 25, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts, in general. For 113, against one, it did not vote 16 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Orders. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF ARBITATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the bill on arbitration, in principle. For 115, it did not vote 15 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 99, 30 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 98, was not voted 31, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan Stevovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, they did not vote 33 of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 39 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 39 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 35 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 92, it did not vote 37 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 96, was not voted 33, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on arbitration, in general. For 122, it did not vote 8 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill on arbitration. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC AUTHORITIES LAW FOR Efficient PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT OF INTELECTUAL PUBLICATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, in principle. For 110, against three, 17 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, and before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, a representative of the Proposer accepted amendments and the Legislative Committee, held on 25 May 2006, assessed that they were legally possible, and that an integral part of the Bill's proposal became an amendment to the Committee on Finance: Article 6; the amendment proposed by the Committee to add a new Article 9a after Article 9a; Articles 14, 18, 23; the amendment proposed by the Committee to add a new Article 25a to Articles 30, 31, 32, 33, 33, 34, 35; the amendment which the Committee proposed to add to Articles 35a and Articles 36, 37 and 38. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 26 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 23, 22 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 8a be added after article 8. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 6, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 110, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 24 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 23 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan Stevovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 25, 128 MPs did not vote against 103. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 23 of the 126 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 106, against three, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, abstention one, no vote 23, of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 34 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 23 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, he did not vote 31, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, in general. 15 of the 126 MPs did not vote for 111. The National Assembly adopted the draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. We move on to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF COURT OF CHARTERS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. Please insert the cards. I'm sure we've got enough MPs in the O.R., but the cards probably jumped out. Check your cards for MPs. I put to the vote the draft law on the paper market of values and other financial instruments, in principle. For 118, it did not vote 10 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the draft law in principle, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, based on Article 146(2). The Rules of Procedure, as untimely, rejected the amendments of the People's MP Susana Grubjesic to the members of 113 and 255, as well as that they became an integral part of the Bill's proposal: an amendment submitted in the same text by the MPs Sanja Cekovic, Natasa Jovanovic and together Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric to Article 219 and amendments by the MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Perić, which was proposed to add new sub-titles and new members of 220 and 220b, Nemanje Sarovic to Article 221, Bozidar Koprivica to Article 226 and Paje Momcilova to Article 232. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, it was not 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lalic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, he did not vote 31, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 35 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to the title above Article 29. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, there were 14 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 95, there were no 34 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 30 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Goran Dunjic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 37, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 56th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 36 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 24 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kekic, Jovan Todorovic and Milorad Vucelic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote with the correction. For 18, against 86, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment with a correction. National MP Ivan Radic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 24 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 77th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, v 92, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sanja Cekovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 96, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Lazar Cavic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 82nd Amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 86. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 110, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to article 86. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 86th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 33 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 38 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 34 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 90th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 88, it did not vote 41 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 38 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Jovan Todorovic and Milorad Vucelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 82, there was no vote of 43, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 33 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 90, 39 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 111(5), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 86. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 106, it did not vote 23 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Bojan Kekic and Milorad Vucelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 91, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee and the Financial Committee submitted an identical amendment to Article 113. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 112, it was not 16 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 113st Amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Cekovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 87, there was no vote of 36, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Goran Cvetanovic submitted the amendment to Article 113. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 89, 36 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 121st Amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 34 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 127th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 127th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 38 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 129 by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 40 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 130th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 130th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 137th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 137th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 34 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 137 of the amendment by Ambassador Sulejman Spaho The Government and the Financial Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Four, against 92, were not voted 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 177th amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 220th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic and Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 94, 34 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 220th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 97, 17 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 227 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 36 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 227th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 90, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 229th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 229th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 90, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 238th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 94, 31 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 91, 30 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 244 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 245a be added after article 245a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 246 of the amendment by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee and the Financial Committee submitted, in the same text, an amendment to Article 255. The Finance Committee has adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, against one, it did not vote 13, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 255th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic and Vjerica Radeta. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 30 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the securities market of value and other financial instruments, in general. For 122, it did not vote 8 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the draft law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments. I'm setting a break of 15 minutes and I'm asking you not to step back.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-25-0.u27434	We're going back to work. First, let's determine the quorum and see if we have a quorum to decide. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that there are 127 MPs present in the O.R., we have a quorum to decide. We're going back to work. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE INVESTICION FONDS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft investment fund law to the vote, in principle. For 121, 8 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 108, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 22, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 33 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 101, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 21st and all other members showing up, the word "exterior", the amendment was submitted by MP Mita Avramov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 28 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cevrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 22, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Lazar Cavic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 64th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 33 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 68th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 25 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic to article 80. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, it was not 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 85th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 33, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 86th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 32, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 32, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft investment fund law to the vote, in general. For 125, it did not vote 6, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on investment funds. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PRESERVATION OF ACTIONARY SOCIETIES Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the bill on the takeover of stock companies, in principle. For 120, it did not vote 11 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Government to Article. 1, 8 and 37. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 93, it did not vote 18 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 31, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 33, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, a abstentioned one, did not vote 36, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, it was not 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 97, 25 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 96, 31 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 37, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 36 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, there were no 38 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 33, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 37 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote a bill on the takeover of stock companies, in general. For 117, against one, they did not vote 12 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill on the takeover of stock companies. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON ACCOUNTMENT AND REVISION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on accounting and audit, in principle. For 116, 12 out of 128 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that during the review of the draft law in particular, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Velimir Simonovic, members of the 2nd and 3rd and Istvan Takac, to Article 17. It's a bill of law. Also, I would like to remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of Sava Urosevic's MP to Article 38. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision. Before we move to a decision on amendments, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare on the legal and technical order of the draft law implemented by the Legislative Committee. You have been presented with a report by the Legislative Committee containing a legal and technical editorial of the text of the bill. I put to the vote a legal-technical editorial of the text of the draft law, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. 17 of the 128 MPs did not vote for 111. The National Assembly adopted a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17 against 90, he did not vote 21 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against the 90s, there were no 38 votes, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 35 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Mit Avramov submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 37, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 87, he did not vote 41 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP, Milet Poscuric, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 39 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Angelkovic submitted an amendment to the subtitle above Articles 4 and 4. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 34 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Igor Becic submitted an amendment to Article 4 which suggested that the word "exterior" in the corresponding fall be replaced by "sex" in the corresponding decline in this article and the other members. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against the 90s, there were no 38 votes, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 93, it was not 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 89, a abstentioned one, did not vote 32, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Ivan Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 91, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 34 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 36 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 36 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Milomir Minić and Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 87, 27 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Jovan Todorovic and Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 17th amendment in the same text. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 89, he did not vote 21 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against the 90s, there were no 38 votes, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 29th Amendment were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milan Skrbic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 88, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 against 91, it did not vote 19 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 87, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 85, 22 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 82, there were no 34 votes, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 87, there was no vote of 23, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 89, 21 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 against 91, it did not vote 19 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Jovan Todorovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 50 and 50. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15 against 94, it did not vote 19 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 92, 23 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 90, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Jovan Todorovic and Paja Momcilov submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 93, they did not vote 23, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 98, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 96, 20 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milomir Minić submitted an amendment proposing that members from 55 to 59 be deleted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 against 91, it did not vote 19 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Blagoja Krajinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 37, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, they did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 35 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 58th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, they did not vote 32 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 35 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on accounting and audit, in general. For 122, against one, six out of 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted the draft law on accounting and audit. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC SCIALITY LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on public ski resorts to vote, in principle. For 118, it did not vote 10 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 25 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 107, against two, it did not vote 18 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 108, it did not vote 19 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, against one, it did not vote 11, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic.. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 120, it did not vote 10 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Branislav Stevanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 97, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by Branislav Stevanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 104, 24 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cevrovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 101, was not voted 26 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zlatko Radic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 95, 32 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 45th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 38 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 110, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 33 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan Stevovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 55th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verica Radet. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 37 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 102, there was no vote of 23, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109 against four, three abstentions, were not voted 11 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 56th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 89, 30 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 63rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, a abstentioned one, was not voted 21 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 65th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 63, a abstentioned one, did not vote 56 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ivan Radic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 71st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cevrovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 121, there was no vote of 8 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on public ski resorts in general. For 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a proposal for a law on public ski resorts. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF PRIVATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in principle. For 31, against 91, six out of 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the bill in principle. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the founding of the Acctionary Society "NIS-Capital" Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law establishing the NIS-Capital Action Society in principle. For 30, against 86, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the bill in principle. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the founding of the Acctionary Society "EPS-Capital" Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft law on the establishment of the EPS-Capital Action Society in principle. For 28, against 86, two abstentions, 14 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the bill in principle. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the founding of the Acctionary Society "PTT-Capital" Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft law on the establishment of the PTT-Capital Action Society in principle. For 28, against 88, the abstention of three, it did not vote 11 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the bill in principle. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a RETURNING LAW (RESTITUTIONS) OF THE IMPROVAL OF THE CHURCHES AND THE WRITING COMMUNITIES Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a law on the return (restitution) of property to churches and religious communities, in principle. For 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that at the meeting of the Privatisation Committee, the Privatisation Committee adopted amendments, and the Legislative Committee, held on 25 May 2006, assessed that they were legally possible, so that the draft law became an integral part of the amendment of the Privatisation Committee to Articles 4, 18 and 36. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Zoran Krasic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of the bill. The government and the privatisation committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 88, he did not vote 41 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 35 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, they did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 4 and 4. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milorad Radovanovic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Articles 6 and 6. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 26 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, they did not vote 24 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 28 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the name of the third head, the title above Articles 9 and 9. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 30 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the name of the fourth head, calling the first section, the title above Articles 10 and 10. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Miljko Cetrovic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Articles 11 and 11. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 28 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, he did not vote 21 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic has tabled an amendment proposing that the name of the second section, titled above the 16th and Article 16 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 17 and 17 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 20 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above article 18 and article 18 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Articles 19 and 19. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, they did not vote 24 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing to delete the title above article 21 and to amend Article 21. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 22 and 22 be deleted. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 101, was not voted 26 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 27th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, 29 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. PRESIDENT (Predrag Markovic): National MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, he did not vote 21 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 88, it did not vote 40 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Since an integral part of the draft law has become an amendment of the Privatisation Committee to Article 36, which provides for the feedback of this provision, pursuant to Article 144(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the proposal of the Privatisation Committee contained in Article 36. Proposal for a law on the feedback of this provision, which, according to the Committee's assessment, is of general interest. Seven out of 128 MPs voted for 121. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 36. It's a bill of law. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 24 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the motion for a law on the return (restitution) of property to churches and religious communities, in general. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. The National Assembly unanimously adopted a bill on the return of (restitution) property to churches and religious communities. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: – MEETING OF MEMBER STATES OF THE PROGRAMME COMMITTEE Since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move to the vote, let me remind you of the provisions of the Radio Diffusion Act relating to the selection of members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. Namely, according to Article 92. The Programme Committee shall have 18 members elected by the National Assembly, six from the ranks of MPs, and 12 on a proposal from the Agency, from the ranks of professional associations, scientific institutions, religious communities, associations of citizens, NGOs and the like. Members of the Programme Committee may not be elected, appointed or appointed by the Government or the Republic authorities, or may be members of the Agency's Council. The term of office of the members of the Programme Committee shall be three years and shall not be re-appointed. We're going to vote on the proposed candidates. We approach the vote on candidate proposals from the List of Candidates for the members of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia, which are elected from the ranks of Members of Parliament, which was proposed by the Committee on Culture and Information. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Rajko Baralic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia. For 122, six out of 128 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly has elected MP Rajko Baralic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Aleksandar Lazarevic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 6, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has elected MP Aleksandar Lazarevic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Vukosav Tomasevic as a member of the Radiodifuse Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. 7 of the 128 MPs did not vote for 121. The National Assembly has elected MP Vukosav Tomasevic as a member of the Radiodifuse Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect MEP Milorad Belic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia. For 119, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has elected MP Milorad Belic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Meho Omerovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. One, against 27, was not voted 100 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect MP Meh Omerovic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect an MP, Dr. Dragor Hiber, as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 78, against 22, it did not vote 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Dr. Drago Hiber's MP as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. We approach the vote on candidate proposals for members of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia Programmes proposed by the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Jovan Arangelovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 115, it did not vote 11 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Professor Jovan Arangelovic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect Lazar Boskovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 94, against 20, it did not vote 13, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Lazar Boskovic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect Nebojsa Dugalic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 118, it did not vote 9 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Nebojsa Dugalic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Sonja Zimonic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 118, it did not vote 8 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Dr Sonja Zimonic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Djuro Kovacevic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 116, 10 of the 126 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly has elected Dr Djuru Kovacevic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I am voting on a proposal to elect Mr Jovan Kolundzie as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 122, five of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has elected Mr Jovan Kolundzija as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect Nenad Manojlovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 91, against 20, it was not 16 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Nenad Manojlovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Jovan Miric as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. Nine out of 126 MPs were not voting for 117. The National Assembly has elected Professor Jovan Miric as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Milovan Mitrovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 118, it did not vote 8 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Professor Milovan Mitrovica as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Ivan Nikcevic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 116, 10 of the 126 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly has elected Professor Ivan Nikcevic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect Cedomir Petrovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. 93, against 23, did not vote 10 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Cedomir Petrovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I am voting on a proposal to elect Milorad Roganovic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. For 94, against 21, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Milorad Roganovic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. Since we have held a vote on candidates for members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my own behalf, the elected members and wish a lot of success in the work. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Three out of 126 MPs voted for 123. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS ON THE DECISION OF MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a Decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Three out of 126 MPs voted for 123. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. Since we have made clear on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within the 18th point of the agenda and on the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under the 19th Point of the agenda, I ask whether you agree to adopt the proposals for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a legally-technically united act – the decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 121, five out of 126 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. The decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 18 May 2006 at 13.25 p.m., indicated that President Vojislav Mihailovic, vice president of the National Assembly, injured Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 111, 15 of the 126 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the same time, it means that with your responsibility, our patience, I especially thank the sick Mr Angelkovic who led this part so effectively and Mr Mihailovic, who has been running it for hours, in fact finished the regular spring session of the National Assembly. I also inform you that I intend to schedule your signatures for the First Extraordinary Session Tuesday between the two regular sessions in June 5th, 2006. In contrast, plan your time and your obligations. Thank you all for your responsibility. Good-bye and good-bye.
