ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27273	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to put their cards in the voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall. No one reported a leave. We move to the 11th point of the agenda:– PROPOSE OF THE PUBLIC SCIALISTS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Branislav Stevanović, Tomislav Penezić, Rodoljub Gačević, Miroslav Nedeljković, Miljko Četrović, Ivan Radić, Zlatko Radić, Radiša Ilic, Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Antic, Milan Svetinović, Milan Stevović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Marković and Sreto Perić, as well as amendments submitted by the government. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Penezic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27274	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted the amendment, on behalf of the SRS, to Article 3 paragraph 1 point 5, which says that after the word "skiing" the point is placed, and the rest of the text is deleted. To explain the concept of "ski-track", it is an explanation of the amendment, it is not relevant whether it is served by one or more cableways or not at all served by the cableway. The answer I get is, "Amendment is not accepted because the ski track, in the sense of this law, is the only area of the ski resort served by one or more cablemen. Other areas intended for skiing, which are not directly related to the cableway, have different characteristics compared to the ski tracks, so that the acceptance of this amendment would equalise different categories of area intended for skiing." Now let me tell you right now, I'm not fundamentally against being mentioned about the "ski-track" and the "rope", but formally, if it's looking at the law here, it says, "Some expressions used in this law, if otherwise specified, have the following meaning" -- this is about the term "ski-track," which means that it should be explicitly explained, just, the term "ski-track", and no accompanying elements should be explained. I would compare that with, say, a car when they say – car is a means of transporting passengers. And it's normal for a car to have an engine, and you'd ask in law probably to say that it's a vehicle that has an engine, which is understood. Now, if that engine is on the drive, on the gas, on the diesel, on the gas or something else, it doesn't matter at all. So, my amendment has been submitted in the sense that only the term "ski-track" is explained, and you, the legislator of the law, in fact, have come into colluding with your explanation already in Article 4, which says: "The provisions of this law relating to ski-tracks are equally applied to "ski-roads", "ski-route", "ski-polygons", if this law is not otherwise defined." Which means you've already evened out the "ski track" and "ski-route" and "ski-roads," and that's where you're talking about "ski-tracks" that have to explicitly own ski-lifts, or cableways. We're talking ski paths and ski resort laws here, and believe me, we don't have a ski resort or a field developed right now, and we have so many opportunities that we're not even aware of ourselves. It's a shame most of it's in the story, she talked, I guess they haven't seen each other in a long time, and there's something more to be said and you should hear some of the problems that are happening to the people, because I've been on the ground and I've seen both the terrain and the people. And I can tell you that I was in the Shadow the other day. You know that you've determined, voted, that the highway route goes across the cave, instead of going over the Uzic. No one paid attention to the Cave, where there are vast possibilities or potentials, as you say, to build a ski resort for recreational skiing or training. I'd like to ask you just for a little attention. Passing by a village called Lopiže, I saw a beautiful river called Uvac, and that river was once a fish's nest, not to say rich in fauna. However, on the riverbank there is a dump, which needs to be removed as quickly as possible, this is only a crackdown, and in connection with the law, it needs to be removed because there is no possibility of the fish moving in that river anymore. This river runs to the Radin Lake, while Priboj takes drinking water from the Radojin Lake, and on Uvc, down in Strpci, there is a swimming pool. He's getting more and more jaundice from infectious diseases, and that all comes from above and I appeal to the Minister of Ecology to take steps to remove it and to remain a healthy nature. Now to go back – to make it better, and could be done, to make a ski resort by all regulations, the infrastructure needs to be done first. The people upstairs asked to be paved, to make a 12km journey, and, believe me, the clarity of these people comes from the very climate from which they originate. I had a chance to drive a man, to stop me, who told me an anecdote. When one representative came, or one candidate, I won't tell him the name, because they didn't tell him either, they just told me it wasn't Tomislav Nikolic, and that village and that end is the habitat of the white-headed soup and other predators, that candidate again, I say I don't know his name or maybe I know but I won't say, he asked – what is this, the predators gathered? And he gave him a clear answer. Whenever a corpse comes here, the predators gather. So there won't be a gathering of predators and there won't be corpses, so that nature doesn't get polluted, and in order for that end to cultivate, I appeal to the current authorities, which will probably be short of breath, that... You've been saying that for two and a half years. What about that, that you'll be in power for a while? Okay, two and a half years, now it's not four more years. I'm sorry that we're conducting dialogue with Shormaz and I, but he's in his positions, I don't mind, he likes to stay in power longer, we love the elections, the people likes what we do, so we'll probably try. When we're in power, I don't know where you'll be. So let me conclude with what I started. All I'm asking is for the term "ski track" to be defined without this extra one, because watch out for me to make a joke. If we say that Bill Clinton was the President of the United States, it is not relevant to say that he must have a secretary named Monica Levinski – she was a secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27275	Anyone else want a word? National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27276	Mr. Chairman, first of all, you can't guess that name. Secondly, I don't think we have the conditions for working on the amendments to this agenda, because there's no minister's presence here. The minister should listen to these amendments and to our arguments, to respond and to explain the non-acceptance, or to accept the amendments he should accept. We have submitted over 20 amendments to this proposal. We believe that most of them are of quality and that they could contribute to improving the quality of this proposed law. Unfortunately, the government only accepted six, which is not enough to significantly fix this text. On the other hand, the government intervened with its amendments just before the start of the debate, so the essence of the law changed significantly, and we didn't have time to react to those amendments. I still have to ask the minister, since he is not present here, the question remains for the assembly majority – how is it that the strategy for the development of tourism in Serbia was adopted by the government, if I understand the minister well and that the document did not enter this parliament? We had an example last year that the Ministry of Energy, i.e. the government proposed to the Serbian Assembly and submitted to the adoption of a similar document, the Energy Development Strategy in Serbia, which is good and commendable, but in the same way the other strategic documents were to be brought here, proposed to the Serbian Assembly, opened a debate on them and only on the basis of them when laws were adopted from a particular area. This is how we go to the adoption of the tourism law, and if we don't have here, at least we MPs don't know what the Strategy is, what the Strategy is, what everything is predicted and proposed to the Tourism Development Strategy. We're adopting laws based on the Strategy, we haven't even seen the Strategy. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, we have submitted several amendments to this Article 3, which define some concepts and expressions used in this legal text. In principle, I said that many of these terms, used in the text, were defined in an incorrect way or in several cases even in a comic way, that expressions, or definitions, are quite funny. We have tried with several amendments to indicate that this should have been done better and more correctly. Unfortunately, only one of these amendments was accepted, Mr. Rodoljub Gačević's amendment at point 9 was accepted, while the others were not accepted. So here we have definitions of certain concepts that are quite trivial and funny. That's the definition of skiing, an explanation of the meaning of this term. Then an explanation of the meaning of the term skier, where it says you're skiing a physical face, so probably there can't be anything other than a physical face, the definition of a ski track, the notion of a ski track, which the gentleman just explained. It is good that Mr. Gačević's amendment at point 9 is accepted, where the protection zone of the "ski-track" was defined, it was considered as average up to five meters, which excludes automatically, i.e. the possibility that there is no such space, that this space is zero, which cannot stand, and then the concept of importance or essence of the importance and meaning of the protection zone is lost, so the amendment that we have proposed to make it a minimum of one metre. Also, in these explanations, point 17) states that "ski-lift" is a means of high-speed tow skiers up the hill, which is pretty funny, because of course it's logical and it's unequivocal that "ski-lift" drives skiers, or skiers uphill. But in addition to these mostly funny definitions in this Article 3, there are no defined concepts of "ski-pass" and "ski-area" that are later used, which are very important, because they later appear in the legal text and should have been explained here so that this text could be correctly interpreted, understood and applied later. I am saying all of this for reasons to show how badly this law has been done, although, as it stands, it has been done for several years, allegedly very studioy for a long period of time, so for a year and a half it has been standing in the Assembly, waiting for the agenda, and then the Government, just before the beginning of the session at which this proposal is being discussed, submits amendments which essentially change this legal text. So, the complete law is quite incorrect, first termologically, then essentially, we will talk about it later, and I would ask the chairman to ensure the minister's presence in order to continue working the way the Rules of Procedure proposes, so that we can also hear the minister's opinion on individual amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27277	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27278	Just to comment on the amendments to the Government, which arrived in the Assembly just before the beginning of this session, which essentially changed the character and essence of this law. It is two amendments, the first amendment to Article 4. It's a change of heart. It is changed by supplementing the first four positions, as said in the amendment: "The public ski resorts, as well as other specially decorated areas, designed for skiing and specialized winter sports activities, are managed by the ski centre in accordance with this law. The provisions of this law relating to a public ski resort shall apply accordingly to other specially decorated areas intended for skiing and specialised winter sports activities, if this law is not otherwise specified. The government determines public ski resorts, i.e. areas suitable for the organisation of public ski resorts, which are of particular importance for the development of winter sports activities and mountain tourism in the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the tourism ministry." Then, in the last position, it says that, the act in the previous position contains an assessment of the justification for the establishment of public ski resorts, i.e. areas suitable for the editing of public ski resorts, names and descriptions, etc. The question is whether the ski resort is public because its users are all citizens, or potential users, and then whether it provides its public or is a ski resort public because it will operate as a public enterprise. Why do I say that? Because the next amendment is the Government on Article 5, and it has also been amended by Article 5, decidently states: "The arrangement, equipment, maintenance, use and management of the public ski resort (hereinafter referred to as ski resort), as well as the management of areas suitable for the regulation of the ski resort, within the meaning of this law, are considered actions of general interest. In order to carry out the activity referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the ski centre is established as a public enterprise." This is now one newspaper compared to the basic proposal, the basic text. The newspaper, which is clear, Decidantly, said that the ski centre will be a public enterprise and operate as a public enterprise. So, the Republic will establish several locations in Serbia that are most interesting, and will declare the locations suitable for editing and building, organising a ski resort, and will form public enterprises, ski centres. This public interest under this proposal is reflected in what companies will do as public, although one position here in this amendment has been said that the provisions of this law will apply to other ski resorts. I think it's incorrect to single out and write a law just for a few public ski centres and put everyone else aside. These other ski centres that are organised in the direction of individual legal entities or entrepreneurs are also public ski resorts, as they will be held as potential users by all citizens of the Republic and possibly guests from abroad. You don't need to make a difference here and separate what's going to be under the direct control of the government and those ski centres that won't be directly controlled by the government. The provisions of this law should apply to all ski resorts, because they are public precisely because they are used or used or available to all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27279	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23. The proposal for a law on public ski resorts, to add after the words "agreement" to the words – "in line with international standards". It is said that here three resolution ministers determine the categorization of the trails, the dimensions of the ski resort, the signalling and all other rules that prevail on one ski track, as well as editing and maintenance, etc. It still depends on how competent these ministers are to decide for themselves. I think that should be handled by international rules that rule as well as other sports. If they need to be the dimensions of a ski course, it means that we cannot invent some shorter or longer paths than those applied in Scandinavian and Alpine countries, Italy, etc., which are engaged in these sports. This law shouldn't suffer any major changes. It is necessary for a number of reasons, and this is:for the future development of our tourism, first of all, the investment of foreign investors in our Old Mountain, which is one of the most prospective in Europe, too, for our future talents, unfortunately, we ourselves know that we do not have athletes known in the world, we do not have some world and European champions, we hope, in the future. With a few amendments, this law should be very good and good for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27281	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27282	Article 28 discusses the use of a ski-track maintenance mechanism. The first point of the proposal is, "The ski-track planning mechanism can be used at a time when the cablers and ski-lifts are not working." Mr. Miljko Četrovic has submitted an amendment requiring that the words "can" be deleted, so that the first attitude I read read read read reads: "the mechanism for the regulation of ski tracks is used at a time when cablers and ski lifts do not work". We consider what is written in the proposal problematic, because it can somehow be interpreted in a ambiguous way or rather suggests that mechanisms are used in other terms, and only when cablers and ski lifts do not work. The maintenance mechanism is used, so mostly when the wires and ski lifts don't work. That's what's rational. Rationally, because when they work then they're on a ski course and then it's not directed, for the safety of skiers, to use the machinery to edit the track. The second position of this member also contributes to our thesis and says, "If the use of a ski-track mechanism is necessary during the operation of the ski lifts and ski lifts, the ski centre is required to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of skiers." So the second attitude points to and says that it's possible to apply the mechanism to edit the track and at a time when the cablers and ski lifts work, but, of course, with the appropriate security measures, and all that stands. But our intervention is in the sense that some misunderstandings, which may occur with the first attitude, are avoided, that we decidently say that the editing mechanism is used as a rule when the cable and ski lifts do not work, and in exceptional situations when their use is necessary at the time of the cabler's operation that proper security must be carried out, for the safety of the skiers themselves. It's our intervention, and maybe the minister would accept it if he were present, but he's still gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27283	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 31. The amendment was submitted by MP Slavan Radic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't spend much time explaining this amendment, because it's obvious that it's pointless to try to convince a legislator of this law to accept amendments to the SRS. In fact, it is a member of the 31st proposed law, which concerns ski transport means and the position of the 1st member, says: "Transport by cable is a form of public transport and is carried out according to a set of driving arrangements, which must be seen prominently at the starting and final station". Since transport is a form of continuous transport by means of cableway, we wonder what it means in this case to determine the order of driving; in principle we pointed out on several occasions that order of driving can be determined in the case of urban, suburban, intercity traffic. In this case, what is meant to mean by the established driving order, given that it is one continuous mode of transport. In any case, it is a completely pointless provision and it is only in favour of the SRS parliamentary group's claim that this bill is unskilled from the legislation of some of the European countries, so we advise that in the future, when you translate such laws, you hire a little better experts and translators to correct linguistic and logical mistakes. In any case, we have mentioned, in principle, that in this difficult situation for Serbia, we in the Serbian Parliament are discussing such a bill, in times of perhaps the most difficult in the history of Serbia, when the enemies of the Serbian people tear up parts of our territory, we are dealing with skiing, sledgehammering, cable and ski lifts. But I am also convinced that the citizens of Serbia are very closely following what is happening today, who is discussing who is behind what is being held and that in some future elections, which are getting closer to us from day to day, will see well who is doing and trust finally show people who will honestly and honestly fight for their interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27285	The word is from Ambassador Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27286	This is one of the ridiculous provisions of this law. In fact, I've been going around our ski resorts for a while, and as far as I can tell, I haven't met the order of riding on a cable car. When we say the order of driving, then it is logical and it is understood that there are prominent starting times of a means of transport; so you have in urban transport order driving every five minutes and at exactly certain time intervals. However, there is no such thing as cableways and ski lifts. There is a continuous transport and a wire when turned on no more stops, no standing, no transport is continuous, the movement is continuous and there is no stopping. That's why I don't understand what the order of driving means, whether one of the songwriters was on the wire, in the ski resorts, where he found it. The wire says that the beginning of work at nine o'clock, ending at 17 o'clock, and nothing else. Please consider, if anyone can intervene here at all, that this law, if we are already talking about it, would become even more correct, clear, understandable, so that it could be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27287	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 32. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zlatko Radic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27288	Article 32 reads: "The ski centre can interrupt the operation of a cable car or a ski lift only when a responsible person or director confirms that no person is using a cable car or a ski lift anymore. "This is a logical provision that should be found in the law, however, we wanted to make this a little more specific. In many ski resorts, there are cableways that are a mile long, endless, the beginning and the end are not visible. We believe that this should be specified, so we suggested that Article 32 be changed and that it reads: "The ski centre can interrupt the operation of the cable car or ski lift only when the director has completed the control drive". Why does it matter? It is important to determine whether there is no ski lift in that non-transparent part of one of the skiers, or the ski lift user.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27289	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes because the system's down. [[After break – 11,15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The system's fine. We continue to work on the amendment to Member of the 32nd Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27291	We have an amendment that predicts that a cableman or a ski lift to stop work only when the director does the control drive, and I said, I think it's the smartest, best for the safety of skiers on the track, because the cablers, they're longer, they're non-transparent and there's the possibility or danger that one of the users stays somewhere on track, given that the users and those people who are beginners, who have not enough experience. That kind of danger exists, and I think it's the smartest thing to do at the end of the liner's work is to run a control drive and thus find that no one has stayed on the track, and it could be threatened by skiers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27292	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38 of this proposal for a law on public ski resorts, with a proposal to delete Article 38(2). So this mentions the work of a ski resort at night, and now I'm going to read that 2nd position in Article 38, and it's said, "The ski resort can work at night if there are technical and weather conditions and if the skier's safety is secured." We ask that this attitude be deleted in Article 38, because something like that exists in Article 15, and we feel that it is unnecessary to be in this article too. This is what Article 15 says, and it will be seen that it was really unnecessary in Article 38. to put this: "The ski resort, or its paths intended for ski activities at night must have adequate lighting, including direct approaches, so that the safety of all persons on the track and its approaches is secure". This law is otherwise known to look more like a ski textbook and a regulation on the use of cableways than a serious law dealing with both the Government and the National Assembly. In many members of the law, literally, some situations are explained to absurdity, that a man simply wonders who this law is intended for. How else do you understand the provision, which is one of many, that ski activities are not available in the ski resort, if there is not enough snow or if there is weather etc. I'm surprised the promoter didn't predict that the right ski shoe must be used for the right leg, although it should be legally prescribed. In certain parts of this law, and the rules of order on the ski slope are described, there's still only a traffic cop missing. Skiers have to adjust their speed, it's probably somewhere behind the dark, some dishes, some radar control, and they shouldn't crash with other skiers either, or if they accidentally get in the way of a tree, they should definitely turn left and right. This is really absurd what the law says, I guess that means common sense to anyone who decides to ski. Speaking of the use of the ski resort at night, you could have prescribed some way for skiers to install the lights, to come down the path with the lights down. Also, the minister forgot to prescribe the right-hand rule, because it's all mentioned here, including those lights, as if we were on a master's board. If anyone is involved in ski activities at night, the question is whether those rules of Article 55 apply. One of them says, and they're all kind of very interesting, that a skier shouldn't leave the crash site after a collision with another skier until an insight is made. Did the legislator consider that such cases could be hundreds, only in the course of one day. So, at night, it's hard for anyone who escapes the crash site to get locked up. Imagine, too, what the skier legislator who is experiencing a fall on the track predicted, so he is ordered to step off the track immediately. So he'll probably put a broken leg or arm in his hands, so he'll bounce to the first infirmary, just so he doesn't break this comprehensive law on public ski resorts. As the law is too widespread and deals with things that do not belong there, so is this amendment in the function of eradicating unnecessary positions, i.e. positions that are repeated, and I hope that the MPs of the National Assembly in the voting day will accept this amendment to Article 38(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27294	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27295	Mr. Ilic has just explained why we have suggested that this position 2 be deleted. In Article 15, it is quite enough and clearly stated which conditions must be met in order to work at night. I want to comment here on a few members, and they refer to this disputed part of the ski resort at night, on which we haven't written any amendments. Too many amendments could have been written on this bill that were essentially of a technical nature, so a little bit of this text is being corrected, less fundamentally, so I just want to comment on how incorrectly it is. Article 33 states: "The ski centre can perform activities, i.e. jobs related to the use of ski resorts under conditions", and then under points 2, "to ensure the maintenance of order in ski resorts and to arrange order in the ski resort". I think it's incorrect, that it could have been written much nicer, more correct and clearer. Then, article 34 says, "The ski centre must ensure that the ski resort is equipped: 1) with the corresponding number of machines and track-preparation and maintenance devices, proportional to the number of tracks; 2) with a sound device such as the power that can be effectively used on the ski slope." So something that's undefined, because what does an appropriate number of machines mean, what does it mean, that kind of strength? Who prescribes it, who determines it, and in what way? Nowhere is later said who and by any act will prescribe what is the corresponding number of machines relative to the number of tracks or what is the appropriate volume of the sounding device. The same in article 39 says: "Taxing and recreational skiing, ski training and other forms of ski activities cannot be done on ski grounds", and again under one, under two, and under 3) "in high snow – fresh which is not paved and snow that has become too soft due to the sudden melting, or if the trail is very frozen". I have a remark, although I haven't written the amendment, but in a conversation with the ski instructors I confirmed my opinion that this is not good, because many skiers are just looking for paths that aren't paved and driving on so-called. Deep snow, especially snowboards. It means that mostly, not to say exclusively, they're looking for deep snow, and you predict that in such paths that aren't paved, they can't ski at all, which doesn't have a healthy logic. Point four says, "If there's not enough snow on the trails." Again, it remains unclear what it means enough, who will prescribe it and say when enough snow is on the track, so it can ski. I just want to say that many of the members we skipped, we didn't intervene with the amendments, but in virtually every member could be more intervened from that technical aspect, spelling or whatever you want, that this text should be done, more beautiful, corrected, more quality than suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27296	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27297	Article 45 is located in the part – Rescue and first-aid services, where it is talked about helping skiers or other users of these services on ski paths. I'll start with article 42, who says, "The rescue service must have a proper number of rescue workers." Again, this "responsible number" is inaccurate, vague, and is not later told who will determine and determine, on the basis of which criteria, which number is adequate for certain ski resorts. In Article 43(3), it says, "Saviors must have the advantage of using the wire." That's logical and it should stand. Maybe they should stand and rescuers should be in the ranks of ski instructors, trained to ski so they can provide help, because only a skier can get hurt on the track, you can't walk to the injured one. In article 45, we have two problems. The first problem is the ski area mentioned in paragraph 3 which says: "If the ski area in which the ski resort is located does not operate, the mountain ski centre is obliged to organise in the borders of the ski areas the rescue of skiers who need help even though they are located outside the border of the ski resort". It is said here that the ski area, a region that is wider than the ski resort, has not been defined before. What's the point of making the ski resort help those who are outside the border of the ski resort? The next attitude is even more rigorous and says that, in the event of aid from someone who is needed outside the border of the ski resort, the ski centre has the right to compensate for the costs incurred by the person to whom the assistance was provided. You can understand that. So he's done some service outside the area where he's obliged to provide a favor and can claim damages. The next part of the sentence says "unless the need for rescue is caused by failures in the ski centre". How can the ski center be responsible for any injury or problems beyond its borders? This doesn't make sense. So if the ski center is one closed zone, a closed area, bordered, fenced and restricted, beyond those limits everything that happens, it can't be the ski center responsible for it. Skiers can also go outside the ski center on their initiative, but can't be responsible at the ski center for the potential consequences of skiers going adventurous to ski outside the ski resort.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27298	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on public ski resorts is a matter that should have been resolved long ago, because in this area of tourism and sports there have been a lot of problems for public ski resorts and in general the organisation of public ski resorts. I'm sure you could see during a tour of the public ski resorts that there's order there and there, but usually there are wild ski resorts that aren't provided with even minimal training, and above all by the director's service, so that this part of the sport can take place normally. About this law, colleagues from the SRS, both in principle and in amendments, have made a number of professional remarks, including in spelling and language terms. I think our amendments are connected, with the goal of improving this legal project. As well as my amendment to Article 54 of the Law on Public Skiing, which refers to item 1 of point 4). In fact, Article 54 provides that the directoral service should inform the tourist inspector if you ski or another direct user of the ski resort in the use of the ski resort does not reserve a set order in the ski resort. If the director's office or ski security, because of all the problems that are happening there and the violations, would inform a tourist inspector, that means that a tourist inspector would have to be on that ski resort all the time. We know that these tourist inspectors are mostly deployed at the level of the municipality or county and, of course, they won't be able to find a tourist inspector at any time where the director's office invites him. It is our opinion that this point 4 should be deleted because it is not the job of a tourist inspector to discuss with skiers on the track. Why is there a redistribution service? That is why we suggest that point 4 be deleted. I'd like to refer to the safety and the work of the ski resort, or the director's office. As I noted earlier that the directorial service has not been defined so far, this matter has not been regulated by law, so this law is also necessary, with the adoption of our amendments, although Mr Jovanovic mentioned that the Government of the Republic of Serbia intervened with its amendments, just before the start of this session and the debate in principle, where the essence of the status of public ski resorts is changing. We have ski resorts that the government will define as its public enterprises, but there are also ski resorts that will function, and may not meet the necessary conditions and standards to become public enterprises. I think there is one reluctance in this regulation, and you know that today more and more powerful people are renting these ski grounds on our mountains, and normally there will be no legal provisions or norms as our people say, "work wild." And that's why I think this law should apply to all ski resorts, not just public ski resorts that the Serbian government declares public enterprises. The status of the directorial service was not arranged and arranged, I am personally interested in what the legislator wanted to say to this when he said, "The directorial service can perform a person who has completed high school and who shows success in a special knowledge check." This "on a special knowledge check" is indeed undefined and is not defined, which is a special knowledge check and who are these interrogators, or competent to issue a certificate for the work of this directorial service. It is true that it is mentioned in article 53 that tourism and education ministers prescribe the way and programme of passing exams, but it is not covered by these conditions, which are the knowledge that should be mastered by the directorial service in order to be able to do field work. Finally, by accepting the amendments to the SRS, this law would get a different look, it would be improved, so I appeal to the MPs to accept the amendments to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27300	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27301	Article 54 speaks of the authorising officer in the performance of his duties. One of those powers we had Mr. Veselinović's remarks on has just explained. Mr. Stevovic has submitted an amendment to point 6 of this article, which states that one of the directors' powers is to "necessarily "driving one or more rides by means of a cable car that endangers and threatens the safety of the use of ski resorts, or cableways (drinking of persons and persons under the influence of drugs, persons who do not adhere to established rules of conduct on the ski slope, persons carrying illicit items and so on". We asked to delete this. Why? Well, for the simple reason, because it is first impossible to deny one or more driving, because we have said that there is a continuous transport, that there is no order of driving in terms of weathering and that ski-dog does not apply to a certain number of drivings, or is not bought for a certain number of drivings already being bought and is valid for a certain period of time, one day, two days or already as it exists. So, this provision doesn't make sense, it's impossible and there's no telling what it means to deny a skier on a cable car. This is also in contrast or conflict with Article 55. Article 55 discusses the obligations of skiers, users, consumers who use ski services, and says in the attitude of Article 55, what a skier cannot do. Point 4 says that a skier must not ski on the track if he is under the fact that he is alcohol, drugs, or some psychoactive drug, or means that negatively affect his abilities. Now do you see what the opposite is, that is, the collapsing of these two attitudes. When Reddar notices that his face is on the track under the fact of alcohol or drugs, he can deny him one or more driving, and a skier who is under the fact that alcohol and drugs can't ski. This isn't in line. We, unfortunately, have not intervened with the amendment to this article in the 55th part, but I think the proposer should have paid attention to this and to align it in time, so as not to come into this situation. We'll have a problem on the track: first, how will the director determine whether someone is under the influence of alcohol or drugs, then, and when he finds out he can't get it off the track, he can, as he stands here, deny one ride or a few rides, and on the other hand, the skier's obligation is to leave or not go on the track at all if it's under the fact of those means. It's ambiguous, and it's practically inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27302	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27303	Ladies and gentlemen, imagine how absurd and pointless it is for us today, the day after the referendum in Montenegro, and the day after a growing secession of the part of the territory and the work of the Serbian people, to discuss skiing. I don't just know who's interested in it today, especially after knowing that in the next season, Durmitor will probably be another country. And then we are discussing, by the way, without the presence of MPs of the ruling coalition, i.e. a very small number of them are present, we are discussing without the minister's presence and it is really becoming so pointless that there is no reason for this government to finally not realize that it should resign and to discuss more of these extraordinary parliamentary elections, to seriousise this state and this parliament. The minister is not here today, he's probably having fun with the tender to develop a tourism development plan on the Old Mountain. I don't mind, we don't mind the development of tourism at any part of where it is needed, but we do have something symptomatic that this tender is about to appear right now and I wonder if it's one of those future public enterprises that the Serbian government plans to form in tourist centres. I must also point out that this idea of public enterprises to the MPs has been planted as a cowardly egg, that it is not contained in the text of the law itself, but subsequently the Government has submitted an amendment, I don't think it would have noticed what the essence of the adoption of this law is and what the government's intention, which, as the minister here said the other day, has established a strategy for the development of tourism. From then on, it is not logical that even until then, the MPs had not seen this Strategy, but we expected, at least, since we intervened on the day we discussed the law in principle, that the minister would remember to inform the MPs, that is to say, to provide us with this strategy for the development of tourism, because the introduction of this Strategy would certainly contribute to this debate today, and most likely and very likely to have some different views. So it is unserious, however unserious this law is, the unserious relationship of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Assembly. We have therefore invested on this law a number of amendments with a sincere intention to really make the law look like something, and to remove you from the government, or there is no one here from the government, but to abandon any directive that you are embezzling in all our laws. And you will not admit publicly what you are told, directly told by Angela Merkel – there is no enlargement of the EU, and the indirect message to Serbia is that Romania and Bulgaria cannot go to the EU because of corruption and crime. Unfortunately, Serbia is strong competition for both Romania and Bulgaria as far as crime is concerned, at the very top of the government. So if you really want this law to make sense, then you should have... Neither will the technique listen, obviously conditions for disbanding this parliament and for future elections are being met. So, we wanted this law to make as much sense as it does, because we're making laws just to put a cartoon there, we passed the law, so that again at the end of the year, as last year, that the President of Parliament boasted how much we passed the law, but of course he never said how much these laws apply, because a large number is not being applied. Mr. Chairman, this is really unserious. If we don't have working conditions, take a longer break to get conditions, you can't talk like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27304	I'm under the impression it's making a sound. Try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27305	It works, but every third word is heard. You know what's said here is stenographed. I guess you know that. And there has to be an audio recording. If the sound doesn't work, then there's no audio footage, you know that. So, I have submitted an amendment to Article 55 by proposing that points 3, 4, 5, 6), 7 and 8 should be deleted in the position of 2 of this article, for the reasons that it is absolutely pointless for what these points contain to be part of the legal text, because, in fact, what is provided for in the bill should be contained in some kind of an example. The skier's training rule, because, of course, I'll read all these remarks later, it's so illogical if everything a driving instructor has to do and how to train a student of that school was contained in the law, it simply wouldn't be normal or logical. The law would be too smooth and analogous to what is contained here should be contained in some regulation, especially what you have left in the transitional provisions of the deadlines for the adoption of regulations, or sublegal acts, and since you have written everything in this law here, then I really don't know what it is that will be regulated by sublaws. The 55th in the second position says. "The skier is obliged (I will read these points for which I propose to delete): 2) to choose a line (the direction, direction) so that skiers who are driving in front of him do not threaten and that they are able to avoid a collision with any person or any object in front of them; 4) to have other skiers run, either left or right, always at such a distance as to give them enough space for all their movements (drive); 5) when they want to take a ride on a path or when after stopping on the track, continue to make sure that they are above and below, that they can do so without danger to themselves or others." I don't know if this sounds illogical, abnormal, to be contained in the law. That's really what it sounds like to me. I'm a lawyer with years of experience, and I've never met a charlatan law like this before. Imagine that traffic law says that when you come to a traffic light, you have to turn left, then right, or when you come to a pedestrian crossing to look left and right. Unbelievable, really. What did the government think seemed more serious because there were more members, more pages? This really, these rules can't and shouldn't stand in the law. These can be some kind of rules for instructors. The special story is that this is an impossible mission, what's contained in point 3) and point 4. In point 6 you say that without need stop (stop driving), I guess who doesn't know what it means to stop, now you know colleagues, it means to stop driving on narrow and non-transparent parts of the track and that in the case of a fall, as quickly as possible free the space. What's someone who's gonna break, how's he gonna free up space as fast as he can? This is really amazing. He says Moma, as soon as she's well. That's it. It's really amazing that these, I have to say, nonsense, because I can't define otherwise than stupidity what is proposed in this article. "The skier is obliged to: 7) in the case of climbing, or returning to the track, or when walking is coming down for the movement he uses only the edge of the track; 8) he does not climb along the track but use the cableway." I don't know which of these two should be applied. I think it's so crowded this little and really in this part of the meaningless law. In that second part, hiding behind this, which is the formation of public enterprises, that's the real story. That's the real story the government wanted to hide from the MPs, that we don't even know what public enterprises are going to be, or what are the parts of those tourist centres where these public enterprises will be formed. Then, of course, there's the privatisation of these public enterprises, and that's why you're passing this law, which means absolutely nothing. I really expected the minister to take our amendments seriously, because we didn't, I can't say, complicitly, touch what the government wrote, but simply these amendments were written by people who really understood skiing and laughed at some of the details that were written in this bill. I expected, the minister reacted as if all of our amendments were really such that they could fix the bill, but of course it was just so apparent. The minister would not be a minister if he accepted amendments to the SRS, if he admitted that he could not write here, or present a good law, and believe me, with our amendments, this law would indeed be, but only on condition that all amendments would be accepted. Any amendment if you hadn't been accepted would have become something very funny, absurd, stupid and inapplicable in this law. In the end, since the minister is not here, I guess he'll know what he's talking about, I have to repeat what I said and in the principle debate, that those who have ski money can ski without this and without any law, and that the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services should take much different and much better care of all citizens, not just that small number of skiers, which I have nothing against, and let them ski. It would be good for the Ministry to deal with those who don't have every day or eat, let alone think about summering, wintering. The ministry should finally stand in the right way in our trademarks, to stand in the protection of the Serbian market, rather than negotiate with various who are running around Serbia. I think of these various shopping houses, what Slovenians, Croats, Serbia, and Serbian products are not protected either in Serbia, let alone to be exported somewhere, as it is popular to say, brands. So the minister and the ministry have a lot of short-term jobs. Apparently, like other ministries, they can't do their job. After this Serbian tragedy that took place two days ago, it is high time for Kostunica to resign and to do a little differently in this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27306	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27307	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 55. A proposal for a ski resort law. It is proposed to change point 3 in paragraph 2 and to say "respect the ban on parallel driving on track"; in point 8) after the word "wirer, add a tight word – except by the track, on a specially built road". Who was on a ski course, especially when it comes to Divcibar, we know that they come here, especially on weekends, excursions, and that a large number of children are present. It's necessary to make order in such paths. This point in article 55 and all dots just regulate order on ski paths. We know that you often go in there without ski equipment on the track and that skiers are being distracted, which means it's necessary that the directors know exactly their part of the job. Also, unfortunately, in most ski paths, we don't have rescuers, so people are left to themselves to cope in various ways, which is not allowed and not recommended. But I mentioned the Divcibars, and it should also be said that there is, in one piece, a naked rock and that, somewhere, in a diameter of maybe two meters. Therefore, this poses a great danger to skiers, and yet one who takes the obligation to arrange the ski resort, of course, should take care of it, especially since that large number of children come and learn to ski and of course it should be arranged. It should be said that when introducing order, particular attention should be paid to those who enter the alcoholic state and without ski equipment, and that they create extremely big problems, which rescuers and monks should especially account for.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27308	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27309	We have submitted three amendments to article 55, and of those three one was accepted, two rejected. Mrs. Radeta has already explained the first amendment to Article 55, and she seems very nice to me to explain how pointless what is written here is, and what we have proposed to delete. In fact, most of these obligations that are prescribed for skiers here, as Article 55 speaks of skiers' obligations on the ski slopes, can stand in some rules or instructions for skiers, or ski instructors when they train skiers. It shouldn't stand in one legal text. That's exactly what Mrs. Radeta said, that the essence here is only in the establishment of the public enterprises of ski centres, and that all this remains is just filling in the form, so that there are a few more members of the law. In addition to what is said for Article 55, in which position 2 stands, the skier is obliged to do so and, at point 17, it states that "skiing is required to adapt to the conditions of the track when adverse weather conditions have increased the weight of the track". You see, we didn't go here with the amendment to delete a complete member, we've already selectively deleted those points of the 2nd bet, and then three of us shouldn't be standing in one legal text and that's more appropriate for some rule or manual. Why did we propose to delete point 17) because it is already mentioned in points 1) and 2). According to point 1), the skier is obliged to "behave on the track in such a way that he does not endanger or harm others" and at point 2) says that the skier is obliged to "drive carefully and to adapt the speed and manner of driving to his knowledge and conditions of the track" etc. This is exactly what was repeated in point 17) that "skiing adapts to the conditions of the track when unfavourable weather conditions have increased the degree of the weight of the track". This formulation is in point 2) general than the formulation in point 17). It also covers the case when unfavourable weather conditions have increased the speed of the track. That is why we anticipated to delete point 17). I want to take another look at the rest of our objections to Article 55. The position 3 is what you can't ski. The skier is required in attitude 2. In view of the 3rd skier, I already mentioned that he skis if he's under the fact of alcohol or drugs or some other psychoactive drug, and in point 6 he says that a skier can't ski backwards, so he's back in the bracket. It means backwards. This is problematic. When a ski teacher, or instructor, takes the students to the track after a certain training period at other training paths, and the first few driving instructors guide them down the path by skiing backwards and thus following them. If this is banned, then it will be very difficult for beginners, students who go on the track for the first time, because the teacher will not be able to follow them, behind them, so he will not be able to help anything, or he will be turned around and he will not see what and how they do it. I think it's problematic and it should have been eliminated. It is good that point 9 was accepted) in the position of 3rd Mr. Markovic submitted the amendment, where it stood, for example, that a skier should not use the cable car if he does not possess this special knowledge and ability. That's ridiculous. Where will he learn to use it? The promoter had the understanding and accepted the amendment here, and all of this points to exactly how long it's been done. If, as it stands, this legal text has been done for many years, it is really not clear that in this form it comes before the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27310	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 55. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that not only in this assembly, but in the wider environment, everything has lasted. The up-to-date installations, started to break down, ran out of government, but it seems to me that it didn't start to break down, and it's high time to discuss parliamentary elections, to examine the will of the citizens, especially after all these events at the expense of the Serbian country and the Serbian people. Otherwise, this government's manner of adopting no one's required laws has been going on for several months. Of course, the president of the Assembly will boast, the government will boast, as 300 laws have been passed, and of which, for our terms and needs, it may be ten percent applicable and then done. Of course, while the "Knjiz Milos" affair lasted, we discussed the import of genetically modified organisms. The law was passed and made it possible for Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic and the entire budget around her to legalise imports of genetically modified organisms, above all I mean genetically modified soybean, so we poisoned so much livestock food and so much livestock afterwards. While concessions were being discussed, the highway, or while some other laws were being discussed, were also unnecessary, the Horgos-Pozega highway concession started and the fat money would be poured into someone's pockets, and we were discussing the law. It seems to me that it was the Law on the Prohibition of Piratery at the time. While the affair was being debated, where the deputy governor wore a briefcase of 100,000 euros to grease the governor, or to pay him a third of his debt to the villa, because he paid 380 thousand, at least he confessed so much, and by the way, Mladjan Dinkic does not ask if he paid taxes on it, we have adopted some unbulful laws again, and in the meantime it passed flight control. Let me remind you: Director Nikola Stankov, otherwise from the DS, and let them not say that they are not in power, they are very in power, there is 1.3 million salary and what we are talking about then. He bought three pairs of motor sleds so he and Velja Ilic could go to the bathroom. That is why this law is now being passed, how motor sleds will be used. Of course, the sleds were bought under the pretext of going out to the station, and NATO was banned from using the radar station on the Kopalnik, designed and locked. As we adopt such laws on ski resorts, barbarics and other nonsense, thieves in power in Belgrade take what falls under their hands; so Nemanje's street is made, which has become a washing machine for money, and when it's made on three corners, it's not possible to pass the trams, it's the rear-ends and the other trams, but it doesn't matter, it's important that the money is washed. Therefore, this government at the city and republican level is not divided into honest and arrogant, but those who have been captured and those who have not yet been caught. Let me get back to the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to point 3. 9; however, this attitude 3 is absolutely nebulous and the whole attitude should be deleted, as Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic said of another nebulous point, he must not ski backwards. Who, say, snowboarder, who skis on the side, will stand on one ski, to determine what is back to him and what is ahead. Second, how's a skier going to ski backwards when the skis are wrapped just ahead. Then he'll get into a situation where he'll fall and he'll have to get off the track immediately. All nine points in paragraph 3 shall be deleted. The government replied that the amendment was accepted for reasons mentioned in the explanation, and I explained: "How and where a skier will gain experience and knowledge of the use of a cable car if he cannot use a cable car without it. After all, why is there a redistribution service?" In Article 55 of the Law, paragraph 9) says that a skier must not use a cable car if he does not have the necessary knowledge or ability to do so. First, what it takes is knowledge and ability to sit in a basket on a cable car, to be carried out on a track and where it is certified that someone has passed for a ride on a cable car. These laws will not only stand on the shelf, but those who propose them will also have to be thrown into the waste basket. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's high time for the state to come to mind, it's high time for the Prime Minister to ask the president of the state to call a new election. Don't fool the people of this absolutely unnecessary and unmovable law any more. Our country is falling apart, our nation is being taken away, created from our people by other peoples, created from our country of another country. In the end, you will be in a position to pass laws for Belgrade and the environment. Then the Avali ski resort should be built. Leave the place to those who are capable of preserving both the state and the nation. Out of the way, you've proven your absolute incompetence, you've proven your haughtiness and greed, but it's going to be debated in some other state institutions. Stay away from the land, from you, and from those who attack it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27312	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 56. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sreto Peric. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the interpretation of the amendments, just one little dispute to Mr. Momir Markovic, also to the MP of the SRS. He says the law will not stand on the shelves, but the ones who suggested it and wrote it will throw it in the waste basket. No, first they'll pick up what they can through these ski centres and other natural resources and the beauty of our country's Serbia, and that's why they need this law, and then they'll put it off somewhere. We will pass other laws that will regulate the behavior of those who propose laws. The SRS is aware of the accelerated development of winter tourism and sports activities on ski resorts, and to that end we could accept thinking about passing one of these laws. Is today the happiest day to discuss the law, that's another question. And when I say if today is today, you know what I'm saying and what I mean; when one part of the common state is gone, or separate, where the rights of some citizens will be and how threatened, and we're talking here today about the law on ski resorts and you'll see one way from Article 56. My amendment refers to article 56, and I suggest that this article be deleted. I know that those who do not read the legislative proposals are the most irritated by amendments that say that a certain member is deleted, and those who read the bill will see and know that such amendments are sometimes inevitable and necessary. The largest number of amendments we propose to correct the legal text, but here it was impossible, or unnecessary, that this article in the bill stands. If there is no tourism and trade minister today, he could send the one "Croatia", who is day after day, to protect products from Croatia, he may find the miles and services of Croatia in the field of tourism, or ski resorts and ski paths, but ours in Serbia. He could come and hear some of the objections that SRS MPs make to this law. In Article 56, 17 points of attention are counted. I've been talking about a few things and I'm going to talk about a few more. For example, point 3 says that you cannot climb, think of skiers, power stations and line pillars or take a place that is not intended for cable users or ski lifts or to interfere with access to these places. It could have been said here, it can't be climbed, because I suppose there are many ski centres and administrative buildings, it could have been written that a skier who came to ski must not climb the administrative building; but, for God's sake, it's not his place. Then, point 7) must not sway in the seat of the cable car and drive without a low safety shoulder, not to use the foot restraint, to jump out of the seat, etc., as if the person who came to ski had come to sway; or, it does not say anywhere on the bus, because Serbian citizens are not so foolish or foolish that they should write that they should not get out of the cable car, or from the bus, or any other means of transport. He can't throw or remove any items during transport. This is elemental unculture, because it's not just about the wire and other places, it's about every place. I suppose there should also be places for disposal of waste and other means of assistance used on ski resorts. Point 16) indicates that he must not use the cable car if there is not enough physical or knowledge or skills to safely use the installation of the cabler, or transport service. How this can be checked and in any way, and I don't think any of the users of the cable, or ski tracks won't say – I'm not capable enough, I'm not physically ready to use it, because it means, as soon as it comes, that it wants to ski. In which way you're going to check it out, it's not clear to me. If this article is carefully read in 56, then it is seen that it is written for those who have certain mental and mental limitations, they cannot agree that they are citizens of Serbia, because they are not and cannot be, and I do not know whether these legislators think they may be their EU friends, who should come skiing on our truly beautiful ski trails, need these instructions. On arrival, warn them how and how they can ski in Serbia's ski resorts. The government has not accepted this amendment, in its explanation it says the provisions of Article 56 are. The proposal for a law important to the safety of skiers at the ski resort, which is, as in previous members, a matter that needs to be regulated by some rules or certain specific notices that would stand on ski trails, and not in any way enter the legal text. Given that it is proposed by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, I remember when it was on the agenda of the Tourism Act, and when training tourist guides, it says that the price of a test is 3,000 dinars, that it will be paid by a tourist guide in person, only it did not stand in which appointments it should still be. I don't understand these laws that come from the Department of Commerce, who does, whether some people who have gained most of their work experience in some small business entities, have done some rules and regulations, so just their rich experience, let me put it that way, are being passed on to legislation. Try harder, make more serious suggestions so we can work more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27314	Following the same amendment, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27315	Just a few sentences, and they're about this amendment. In fact, Article 56, where Mr. Peric submitted the amendment, asking for this member to be deleted, speaks of what a skier should not do. Watch out, you've got an article 55. The first one says "a skier is bound", so according to the points, it is stated what is mandatory, and in attitude 2, "a skier must not", and again several points, or nine, that cannot do anything. Well, then again, a new member of 56 you can't ski, so the new 17 points you ski can't do anymore. I think this is too much and everything that's in article 56 can stand in some rulebook, but it shouldn't stand in the legal text. I want to supplement what Mr. Peric has already said. Point 16 of Article 56 states that a skier must not use a cable car if there is not enough physical and knowledge for safe use, and the government has just adopted, or has accepted Mr Markovic's amendment to Article 55, in which such a provision is deleted, and now the same provision is repeated in Article 56, and it remains in that article. So, in article 55, we deleted a provision that said that a skier shouldn't use a cable car if he doesn't have full knowledge and skills, and now we have a provision that remains in place, that a skier shouldn't use a cable car if he doesn't have enough skills and skills to use a cable safely. So that's where we deleted it, and there's nothing left and there's no effect, so we didn't get anything with this amendment to Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27316	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's my pleasure to speak now, because just before I spoke, no one heard me, and I didn't hear myself bellowing. I see these others have calmed down, read the papers, so let them, I won't disturb them. I just have to make some opening remarks, because this is about the law, and the government gentlemen, and the rest of them, there's no exceptions in the law, and the rules can do it anyway. In a few places, and I'm not going to quote it now because it's not part of my amendment, you have it written -- okay. So, in the law of the sea or not, it's forbidden. So there's no way we can do it anyway. The rules can do it anyway. However, it is not the subject of my amendment. I request that my amendment be deleted in Article 57(3). For the sake of the public, I will read this article : "When the ski resort during the ski season expects a large number of skiers at the ski resort must inform the competent internal affairs authority in due time (pay attention) and ask for additional help to maintain order at the ski resort (and I stress this) and arrange traffic for arrival and departure from the ski resort. "And I'm not stressing this else. Be careful what the contradiction is, as article 53 refers precisely to ski security, and it is said: "The ski centre is obliged to provide a directorial service during the ski operation, which must have the appropriate number of directors to effectively ensure the safe use of the ski resort (as well as patrols, on call stations, etc.), in accordance with the provisions of this law and the rules of order on the ski resort". The following attitude says: "The number of hired directors is determined according to the specific circumstances of the ski resort, and especially according to the expected frequency of track use and number, weight, size and transparency of the trails." This member's got it all figured out. I'm sorry, in response I said a little bit and funny that the ski center is not a stadium where opposing groups of fans gather, so the measure provided for by this attitude is too high. There's no fight here, there's no danger of anyone falling for skiers when they win. It's not a football game to run there and fight people. What's the militia doing? I see here -- internal affairs organs. In response to my amendment, it says, "The amendment is not accepted, because the provisions of Article 57 provide for order at the ski resort during the ski events." There are no such manifestations in the law. Events mean, as far as I know, competitions of different species. There can't be a event if I take skis and I go down, I fall down, or I pass happily ever after. It's not a manifestation. It would have been fine if you had predicted that the police would be notified and out of the ski resort, where the parking lot and the road would have provided traffic. What's the militia doing at the ski resort? Imagine if the militia commander came and said – Mr. Tomba, you're not up now, you can't go, Stanmark goes. There's no militia to look for there. You're here saying you're looking for backup of the ski security system. You've got to fix that. Don't be angry, I have no evil intentions, I want to point to that failure. You mentioned events in response to my amendment, and there is no event in the law. I read well – when the ski resort during the ski season expects a large number of skiers on the ski resort, this means probably recreationals. So there are no manifestations here. If you want, if you're in a good mood, accept this and that suggestion at the beginning. He's not here, Mr. Markovic. He's a language man. He's an excellent barat and would confirm what I'm saying. So don't use the "can" anymore, and in law, if it's not otherwise solved, it can do it anyway. The law can do this and no different, as a rule whatever you want. I think I made myself clear. If I'm not, you'll understand when you read this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27318	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is written by the MP Rodoljub Gačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27319	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every school, of course, and skiing school, has its students. Students are, in this particular case, different faces of different ages, different sexes, different ages, but they are all, as a rule, those who do not manage the ski resort well, persons who are inexperienced and most often unwary. For these reasons, my amendment is in this sense and given, that these skiers are marked clearly and clearly, in order to draw attention to the other participants on the ski slope for these reasons that I have just mentioned, all in order to avoid serious injuries, injuries and perhaps unforeseen situations, both for students and for persons who have been taught and for skiers. Since this may result in serious injuries to the ski resort, it is necessary that the skiing school also has the necessary medical assistance, in terms of the expert who will indicate medical assistance. First of all, I think of the faces of the rank of a doctor, because if any person who is dressed on the surface to show medical attention, there may be even more serious consequences than those that were born before that. For these reasons, I suggest that the skiing school has just such a fit necessary to provide medical assistance, i.e. to provide first aid. It's not said here, it's said that all he has to do is provide emergency medical attention. It's not defined enough what's meant by that term. Second, here he says he needs to have a so-called so-called. manual set. When you say "the manual set", you usually think of that kit that we all drivers have in the car, but it's not a set that's enough, because it should contain, first of all, the means as they carried, and in the first aid kit in the car it's not there. I know someone's gonna say that traffic can cause serious injuries than it is at the ski resort, but we can't train all drivers to be in medical rank, to be experts in showing first aid, or medical assistance. For those reasons, when it comes to skiing school, she should have such a face. So I think it is necessary for the skiing school to have one person to provide medical care, to rank the doctor, and not only to have a manual first aid kit, but to have all the necessary means to provide first aid, i.e. to provide medical assistance. I mean the stretchers and I mean the means that are necessary in those moments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27320	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27321	SRS MPs regularly warn the government of the obligation to uphold Serbia's constitution, but this seems to be inadmissible to this government. I will now quote several members of the Constitution of Serbia, and then I will say why it is important for this Article 65. Article 11. The Serbian Constitution says: "Freedom and the rights of man and citizen are limited only by equal freedoms and rights of others, and when the Constitution has established them." Article 13. The Serbian Constitution says: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, property or personal property." Article 35 says, "Each one has the right to work. The freedom of work, the free choice of occupation and employment and participation in management is guaranteed. Everyone is, under equal conditions, available job and function. Employees may cease working relationship against their will, under conditions and manner laid down by law and collective agreement. Forced labor is forbidden." A member of 53, who refers directly to the minister and the government, says: "Anyone is obliged to adhere to the Constitution and the law. Everyone is obliged to perform a public function in a safe and responsible manner." Now, this minister does not adhere to the Constitution and the law, nor does he carry out his job in a secure manner, of course, I mean Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic, who, on behalf of the Government here, should represent this law and resign - that is certainly. First Kostunica, then everyone else. Why I quoted the Constitution and these concrete members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Because the 65th member is unconstitutional. I am talking about an amendment to the 1st position tabled by counterpart Milan Stevovic, and that position of Article 1 of the 65th reads: "The ski centre is obliged to provide equal conditions for the use of ski resorts for all skiing schools that have their headquarters in the local self-government unit on whose territory is a ski resort". Such discrimination by Serbian citizens in the bill of law is something that is truly surprising. If it's from this government, it's a lot. Why would a person have the advantage, that is, to have these conditions only because he has his seat in a local self - government unit? Well, can't someone be where there's no ski resort at all. That there is a private company and that there is also a ski resort, ski resorts, skiing schools, all of it can have, and that lives in Vojvodina, where there is no skiing at all, even where it rarely snows. So he opens up a company, opens up a business company, deals with various activities and, among other things, this activity; there's a ski resort for people who meet the conditions, who know they're doing it, there's a director who runs that part of his company, and his seat is a few hundred miles away from that ski resort. And I really don't understand what was the motive of the government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate this matter in this way and to propose such a pointless member, Article 65. Come on, it's pointless, it's really extremely discriminatory. How can you, gentlemen of the Ministry, assume that you have translated these laws, the minister doesn't have time to deal with the tender and the action "let's buy our own home", and it is funded by foreigners in this campaign, or financed by this campaign, it is truly amazing that you didn't take care of something that is truly the basic right of man and citizen in the country of Serbia, and this right is guaranteed by the Constitution. What you're saying is that you're going to bring in some new constitution, and now I'm worried that when I saw you break the laws of fundamental human rights, what does this future constitution of yours mean, are you going to abolish human rights and freedoms, gentlemen, so-called Democrats? The amendment is to remain only part of the text: "The ski centre is obliged to provide equal conditions for the use of ski resorts to all skiing schools". And there, gentlemen, is the point, and it is deleted – "all ski schools that have their headquarters in the local self-government unit whose territory is a ski resort". The essence of this attempt on your part and on this member is again in that occipital shop about public enterprises, which you have tried to push through to the MPs. Now listen, fellow MPs, why does the government not accept the amendment by Milan Stevovic: "The amendment is not accepted, because ski security is an important development of ski schools that are directly related to the ski resort itself." I really don't know what Minister Dimitrijevic and the government were going to say. Which threatens the safety of skiing, and then you say, "For the safety of skiing, important development of ski schools that are directly related to the ski resort itself". So the development of other ski schools doesn't interest you, just the ones that are tied up, as it is written in the law, whose headquarters is nearby, or on the territory of the municipality, or local self-government where the skiing school is located. This, indeed, I think that the minister is here to have to accept, and I hope that fellow MPs will take this remark seriously and that you will not allow us to pass another one of the unconstitutional laws, since unfortunately it has become the fashion of Minister Vojislav Kostunica to tell us about the laws here, and to propose laws that are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then the ministers, when they are present, explain to us what will be the constitutional solution of a future constitution, which, apparently, you have no intention of bringing because you have suspended the work to adopt the constitution, because the adoption of a new constitution, gentlemen, does not suit you who represent the assembly majority and does not correspond to Boris Tadic. The new constitution would, of course, include new elections, early elections at all levels, and for that reason you're just talking, you promised in an election campaign, you're telling a story, and of course it doesn't occur to you that you're making a new constitution because you're in permanent co-habitation with that thieving "yellow" company led by Boris Tadic. Then that Shuki-Plazma last night on a television show said, when fellow Prophetic mentioned the SRS in some context as the largest opposition party, and then Shuki-Plazma, that is Dragan Sutanovac, and Shuki-Plazma has been his nickname since it was found out he was recalibrating Brašnevic's brothers and that he was taking "plasm" TVs for himself and Boris Tadic, and then he says last night – and how the largest opposition party did it. And this fellow said, "They have the most messengers in the congregation. And he says, "And ever since that criterion, there have been some other criteria since the measure of having the most MPs is that this means that they are the greatest party." It's just amazing and stupid, but, of course, it has nothing to do with this law or what I want to draw attention to the MPs. Once again, accept this amendment, do not confront the government with local self-governments in this way and do not show how you imagine decentralisation. We keep telling you that you're just talking about it, and in practice you're doing it completely differently, especially when you're still trying to get it into the legal text, then it's just a confirmation of what we're talking about, but it's unacceptable, and we're really going to repeat it every time, and we're telling the public that you have to stop fellow MPs who vote for government proposals, that you're passing unconstitutional laws. The constitution, whatever it is, it's a "sacred letter" in every country. When I say whatever it is, I don't mean the Constitution of Serbia, because this constitution guarantees all rights and freedoms. This constitution of ours is good, except for a few of those archaic things that apply to social property that need to be changed. Of course, you won't, either, because it's not in your best interest. You have shown on many occasions that one story is told to the citizens of Serbia when you try to beg them for votes in the elections, and when you take power, then there is nothing out of election promises. So it wasn't just the constitution of the election promise, it was Kostunica's story of The Hague, like the ninth hole on the play, and then he turned that hole around, so now it's his first hole on the play. Of course, Serbian citizens will be in the next elections, and I guess it's clear to all of them after all these events, and probably after the final declaration of secession of the part of the state and the work of the Serbian people, there is no other solution, ladies and gentlemen, for Serbia, but for extraordinary parliamentary elections. They must come to Serbia for power of serious and responsible people. Enough for the citizens of Serbia who say after the elections – we have taken over. Serbian citizens want those who will say after the election – we take responsibility. There is a big difference, ladies and gentlemen, you are in power and you keep power at all costs and in the course of the government you make such mistakes that it is simply terrifying, and it is terrifying, the lawyers know that the government, openly and clearly, through the law proposes unconstitutional solutions. What can Serbian citizens expect in Serbia and what legal certainty can they have if they have a government and a congregation majority that adopts unconstitutional laws? There is no greater legal sin than to sin against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that is, in any country, the constitution of any country, it is sacred, gentlemen. If you do not like the constitution, provide the right majority, change the constitution. We Serbian radicals are ready, that's what we told you a long time ago, that we're involved in this business, but not the way you do it. But as long as we have a constitution, he has to be respected like this. It is unacceptable and I ask you, fellow lawyers, to explain to your colleagues who are not, that there is no major legal violation of the constitution. Therefore, please accept this amendment, so at least in this part you will not violate the Constitution and, more importantly, you will not put in an unequal position not only for local self-government, but for the citizens of Serbia, because in local self-governments live Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27322	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted to the 65th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27323	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just one little correction. In fact, the MP, Mrs Verica Radeta, said they had resigned ministers, to resign Vojislav Kostunica. It is enough to resign Vojislav Kostunica. Secondly, there was a nice rule here, that when someone comes to the gallery, chairing the notice of the MPs who is at the gallery, we may need to welcome the guests who listen to us or we need not to greet them, but to ask them, from this pay phone, what they're looking for. I mean NGOs, because I won't be surprised, given how it started, that one minute there was a time when Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht, Natasa Kandić, Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo, came up and possibly brought tomatoes to target the MPs if they didn't like the discussion of these MPs, depends on how you treat them. If the students of the Faculty of Law come, every SRS MP, the first to come out for a pay phone, will welcome this youth, the future legal elite that will protect and rule this country legally. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I've seen a team of people sitting up there, and I'm just wondering who that is. Whoever monitors it, as these friends of yours tend to say, over the work of the MPs of the National Assembly. Who is it that has the right to control us in this way, given the public's work, given the situation that there are television broadcasts of the Assembly without being notified? So I'd like to ask the chairman, which is a group of people who were at the gallery to let us know. National MP Nedeljkovic, an SRS MP, submitted an amendment to Article 65(3), asking for the amendment to be deleted. The amendment is similar to the amendment submitted by MP Stevovic and refers to the fact that you are trying to discrimination between skiing schools in this case. If this passes, we will not be surprised that the next law will be that you will ban swimming schools, except where someone has a lake, a river, and I wonder whose brothers and pastures are opening ski schools next to our largest ski centres, and future and present ones, so they need to be provided with the right to only them to be able to school future skiers. Why can't someone who's a top skier, who's brought as many medals as possible, and, say, lives in Novi Sad or somewhere in Vojvodina, and there's not one hill outside of Fruska Gora to open a skiing school in Kopalnik? Who are you booking for the bathroom, Zlatibor, Tara, for whom do you reserve Golia? Whose relatives, friends and ministers are going to buy a ski resort and open skiing schools the next day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you directly violate the Constitution by this member of the law. You forbid this member of the law to anyone who didn't possibly buy a place in Golia, at the future most beautiful ski resort, the largest ski centre, to open the next day's skiing school there. Where did you get the right? I believe that in the day for the vote, MPs, and the ruling coalition, will still, unfortunately, and MPs of the opposition, press the green button, adopt this amendment by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic and remove this injustice that is making Serbian citizens aware of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27324	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27325	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something about this part of the law that bears the title – teaching skiing. Several of the next members speak of skiing schools and arranges the area, but it seems to me to be in a very incorrect and bad way. Article 62 also discusses the school of skiing and some conditions that need to be met by skiing schools. He says in point 2) that skiing schools should have an appropriate business room on the ski slope and a suitable place to gather participants. I don't think this is right for people who do this job, because what it means to secure a business room in ski resorts. What does it mean to secure a business room on the bathroom during the season? That means a lot of money. It takes a lot of money to rent that room, and that room doesn't have any meaning for skiing school. The skiers don't gather in the room, they gather at the ski resort. Training is not done in the classroom but in the ski resort. The class isn't in the classroom, it's in the ski resort. I think this is pointless and unnecessary, although we haven't written the amendment, it should be lifted. Because you can imagine in Kopalnik during the season there's probably 50, and maybe more skiing schools, and now that school has to provide a business space so that it can function and work at all during the season on Kopalnik. In that period, it's hard to find accommodation for guests without talking about a larger room, a business room for these purposes. First of all, such rooms have no purpose for the school of skiing. Also, Mr. Gačević has already explained our intervention in Article 63, where we have provided for an amendment to introduce an obligation for ski students to be clearly marked. So, if they had the right markings, to distinguish the track from those other experienced skiers, which would contribute to the safety of everyone on the ski slopes, to avoid the injuries of skiers. We submitted two amendments to Article 65, explained Mrs Radeta and Mr Markovic. I think it's more correct to delete this entire article in 65. The whole article is disastrously written, in all three positions, and this should all be eliminated from the law. In fact, this is about pure discrimination or favouring individual schools. I'll read the whole article and ask the MPs to listen carefully, read this and try to understand. This is very hard to understand how it's written. Item 1 states: "The ski centre is obliged to provide equal conditions for the use of ski resorts to all skiing schools that have their headquarters in the local self-government unit on whose territory is a ski resort." This attitude clearly indicates that the possibility of doing this job in a ski resort will have only those schools based on local self - government territory where the ski resort is located. This is discrimination against all other skiing schools that come from other municipalities, or cities. As Mrs Radeta said, it is against the constitution because it is discrimination or the prevention of individuals or entrepreneurs, i.e. legal persons, to deal with certain business under equal conditions. Article 2 states: "The rules laid down in Article 1 do not apply to the restriction of the use of ski paths by skiing schools, which the ski centre introduces during the day to ensure the safety of skiers because of the number of skiers on the track (the completed capacity of the track)". What does this mean? This means that those schools that are from the territory of the local self-government on which the ski resort is located are no longer equal if the track capacity is filled. In this case, management can introduce restrictions, i.e. to eliminate some ski schools from the track. It's really pointless, because who's the one who's going and how and by what criteria to get someone off the track. Secondly, what does the full capacity of the track mean? When is the track capacity filled – when is it waiting on wire 5, 10, 15 minutes or when is it on wire 10 or 50 skiers that are okay to wait? Who will prescribe a criterion based on which the director or person who is there will define to eliminate one of the skiing schools from the track, to say – at this point the track is filled and its capacity no longer allows the skier to be present, or a larger number of skiers, and now we will eliminate some of the schools from the track. The third stance says, "In the cases of the 2nd article's position, skiing schools have the advantage of having their headquarters in a local self-government unit whose territory is a ski resort." In our first position, we had that they could exclusively work schools from the territory of the community where the ski resort is located, and now we're talking about some of the advantages that these schools can have – in relation to who. If others don't exist? A full member of 65 is pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27326	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, we have reached a member of the law who, unlike those of the previous ones who are rather vague, inconclusive, incomprehensible, some and ridiculous to the understanding of ordinary people, can also have adverse consequences. Namely, it's about Article 70. The bill, it's part of the law regarding the supervision of the enforcement of the provisions of this law and of the regulations laid down by it. In particular, a member of the 70th hearing which are the competences, i.e. the authority of a tourist inspector. Among other things, a tourist inspector is said to be authorised to temporarily ban the use of ski resorts if the ski centre does not meet the conditions laid down by this law. It shall be authorised to temporarily prohibit the operation of a ski resort or part thereof if circumstances in Article 39 arise, to temporarily prohibit the work of a person who is not registered for the performance of the activity, etc. It is said, at the end of this article, that the inspector will determine the duration of the temporary ban on performance, as well as the period within which persons performing the activities and providing services set out in this law are obliged to remove the shortcomings that have led to the measure being imposed. An appeal against the inspector's solution may be made to the Minister responsible for tourism affairs within eight days of receiving the solution. The appeal lodged on the solution referred to in Article 4 shall not delay its execution. By amendment to Article 70, I propose adding a new position after Article 5, which should read: "The decision by appeal is to be made by the Minister to bring within eight days of the date of receipt of the appeal". In its explanation, the Government says that the amendment is not accepted because it is a regular procedure, so there is no need to set deadlines in a different way than those laid down in Article 237. The General Administrative Procedure Act. That would be extremely fine if it weren't for one specific situation in this case. The situation is specific for this reason that the ski season lasts relatively short, which largely depends on weather opportunities and must respond quickly to any imposed measure or sanctions and minimise the possible ban on the use of ski resorts. For example, we have a situation where a tourist inspector temporarily prohibits the use of ski resorts, then the ski centre makes a complaint to the Minister responsible for tourism affairs, and you say in paragraph 5 that the complaint issued to the solution does not delay the execution, so the ski resort will be closed, and the minister has no deadline to respond to the appeal. So it can be in 10 days, it can be in a month or two, the ski season is over, and after that time the minister says the appeal is accepted. Who is responsible for such a situation that the ski resort has not worked and who is responsible for the financial loss of the centre due to the closure of the ski resort, especially if it is attractive tourist destinations, which and how is it in our country? For this reason, I suggested leaving the minister eight days from the day of receipt of the complaint that he had to respond to the applicant and thus minimise the period during which the ski resort would be temporarily closed. So that would be about 15 days maximum, but if we consider that ski centres would probably file an appeal on the first day after the sanctions were imposed, it would take about 10 days to end the whole situation. And that is the period in which certain losses will certainly arise, certain damage to the ski center, but in any case much less than it is in this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27328	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 71. The amendment was filed by the MP, Radish Ilic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 71. It's a bill of law. In Article 71 following Article 3, a new position is added, which reads: "The Secretary is obliged to bring the decision within eight days of the date of receipt of the appeal". This amendment proposes the same solution as the previous article in 70 for the simple reason that the ski season is short and that the solutions that come after a long time may lose meaning. What is important, and what is required of this amendment, is that the minister must make a solution by appeal within eight days. If we go back to a member who prescribes the conditions that a ski activity organizer must fulfil, we see that this is a wide range of possible violations based on which an inspector can make a solution that sanctions the offence. This is about serious crimes for which criminal charges can be filed, as well as a ban on the work of a ski resort, etc. If the minister solves the complaint for half a year and eventually rejects the inspector's solution, the damage is inconceivable. Who will compensate for the great material damage to a ski centre for this, not to mention the poor propaganda tourist picture of Serbia and our winter centres. This isn't about the little things that skied fast, who put a propaganda pan half a metre closer to the track, etc. This is about very serious things that need to be solved urgently. Unlike Article 70, where a tourist inspector is responsible for inspection, whose solutions, and based on the complaint, the tourism minister decides, in Article 71, that authority is transferred to the sports inspector and the sports minister. There's little interference between the two ministries here, so it can cause confusion about proper and timely response under legal authority. The SRS MPs have already pointed to the absurdity of this law, which is so simplified, full of unnecessary details, so it would most importantly be that this bill is withdrawn from the assembly procedure. A skier when he comes to the winter center for rest and recreation because of a law like this, which literally threatens him and in which almost every member is prescribed what a skier cannot do, how he can be punished, will surely feel like he's a participant in a tense action thriller instead of coming to rest. When a skier knows that behind every corner of the hotel or dish is a "snow spy", if I may say, Alexa Zunjic, he will go with his head regardless of such a ski centre and from Serbia. Finally, in addition to so many processed terms that have to do with snow, it is a surprise, and perhaps the minister or the one who wrote the law forgot, that there are no conditions for making snow white, because this law would complete the real winter idyll.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27330	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my comment, or the addition of the reasons for this amendment, actually refers to amendments to Articles 70 and 71, since they are similar, and a legislative proposal is similar. And I really must, since you in the Serbian government and the majority of the assembly are constantly passing such laws that predict all kinds of educations, so licenses, some courses, agencies are issued, I think it's much simpler for you to listen to the MPs of the SRS. We give you a nice lecture every time, and yours is just to remember or write it down if you can't remember. First of all, I would like to say that Article 70 states: "A complaint may be made against the inspector's decision by the Minister responsible for tourism affairs within eight days of the date of receipt of the solution. The appeal made to the solution referred to in Article 4 shall not delay its execution." Therefore, in Article 71 of the last position, it says: "According to the decision of the sports inspector referred to in Article 1 of this article, a complaint may be made to the Minister responsible for sports affairs within three days of the date of receipt of the solution. The complaint issued on the solution referred to in Article 2(2) shall not delay its execution." Our question is, why isn't there a deadline for the minister to make a decision, and that's the amendment to the article. 70 and 71? I am now talking about Article 71, where my colleague Radisa Ilic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, suggested that another position be added and that it reads: "A decision by appeal is required by the Minister to bring within eight days of the day of receipt of the appeal". Of course, we've provided shorter deadlines, because resolving the minister by appeal would be pointless if the skiing season passed, you know, the minister's decision in June of the month really can't help. What the government is telling us now, why it refuses these amendments, both of them. Thus, Article 70 says: "Amendment is not accepted because it is a regular procedure, so there is no need to prescribe deadlines in a different way than those set by Article 273. The law on general administrative procedure." It is also not accepted in Article 71, since it is a regular procedure, there is no need to prescribe different deadlines in relation to the General Administrative Procedure Act. I don't know if you have any lawyers at the Department, if he's seen the General Administrative Procedure Act. You should know, gentlemen, that the General Administrative Procedure Act has more deadlines than 8 days, 15, 30, 60 days. What now, if the Ministry is defined for a 60-day period, because the General Administrative Procedure Act provides that administrative proceedings can be conducted, which means that solutions can be made, which means by appeal, and within 60 days, in the case of multiple parties, so more persons should be heard, if there is a need for evidence to be carried out on the ground, so if they conclude that it is a more complicated legal job and they opted for a 60-day period. You government gentlemen have tried, I don't know how it occurred to you, when you know that these are amendments to Serbian radicals, to cloud our eyes by being very smart, so you mentioned the Law on General Administrative Procedure, so which member of the law. You know, there are a lot of lawyers in our parliamentary group, many years we've spent applying the General Administrative Procedure Act and don't ever try to play with us again. So we insist that this deadline be accepted which we have proposed in the amendment, and that is eight days, in Article 70 and Article 71, and that that deadline is set in the law, because if there is no deadline, then the appeal does not mean anything. I claim that when the Ministry gets the appeal to be defined for a 60-day period, because it has to go to the ski resort, which is relative to the Ministry far away, so it has to listen to this or that, and then the minister will wait, where the interests of the Minister and the Ministry, or someone from the Ministry, will wait for a deadline, and where there is no interest, it is known what is meant when we mention these interests, then he will solve it within eight days. Besides, if what you say is true, and it isn't, the amendment isn't accepted, because it's a regular procedure. It's a regular procedure when it comes to appeal. Then why did you say what deadline the appeal was filed, and it's a regular procedure. And in the General Administrative Procedure Act, there are deadlines for appeal, three days, 8, 15 and 30 days. So, what you didn't say here, it doesn't take any time, it's a regular procedure. Here you use one of the deadlines of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and when the minister has to decide, you do not use the deadlines, you leave it to the Minister and the will of someone from the Ministry. So, this is purely legal law-making, and there's no reason not to accept this amendment, because why bother you if we tell and oblige the minister that he has to settle within eight days by appeal. It's perfectly normal and logical, especially when it comes to a job like this that's only for one season. We do not disturb your concept of the law, nor suggest anything that could in any way endanger the Minister and the Ministry, but only insist that the law be respected. If you do not need a specific provision, if you are applying the General Administrative Procedure Act directly, then delete the appeal deadline, leave the General Administrative Procedure Act to the citizens, so who knows about the deadline and who doesn't know what it is. Now I'm asking you, how will the citizens even know when the administration's silence occurs, if the minister doesn't respond within that general deadline, and I'm saying that the deadline is 60 days, it's not just 8. When a citizen will react to initiate a administrative dispute, when the deadline is, if he does not get a proper solution from the ministry, because then there is silence of the administration and then the administrative dispute is started. In what time, gentlemen from the Ministry?- I'm sorry. Of course, you have no answer, and the minister is not here to accept the amendment, and that's why your law is as bad as it is, and that's why we Serbian radicals will not vote for this law, because we never vote, nor would we vote for such unconstitutional and rogue laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27332	Mr. Jovanovic, you have 50 seconds, please. The system has problems, so it'll all be removed in a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27333	Since Ms. Verica Radeta, as an eminent lawyer, explained the essence of the amendment to these two members, only a few words regarding this chapter bearing the title – Control over the application of this law. Namely, the proposal stipulates that the supervision of the application of the law is carried out by four ministries, but in the text of the law closer to the prescribed powers of only the tourist inspector, and the rest, the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Transport, are not here, as well as the Ministry of Finance, remain the ministries that are scheduled to supervise the application of the law, are not closer to the powers of their inspection bodies to implement this law. Also, I'd like to say that if this law is passed, it means a lot of sublegal acts. Some acts, therefore, are scheduled to be brought by three ministries, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Education and Sports and the Ministry of Transport. It will be very difficult in these conditions, almost impossible, because one of the ministers, Mr Ilic, for capital investment, which is responsible for traffic operations has a lot to do. He is currently campaigning in Uzic, having spent the winter in the King, spring in Smederev, and now he is in Užica. That's where the election is being prepared for the president of the municipality. There are a lot of jobs there, the minister has to promise all the citizens of Užica and the environment everything and everything. He won't be able to do these jobs for it. For these reasons, this law will not be possible to apply in practice. Another note. When it comes to the powers of inspection, it says that a tourist inspector has the authority to temporarily prohibit the use of ski resorts, if he sees certain shortcomings. However, nowhere in the law is the obligation of the ski center to return money to skiers, to those who bought a ski dog, and the ski dog is extremely expensive, to pay them back if the ski resort doesn't work. Why isn't the law supposed to do that? So when the ski resort does not work for a variety of reasons, which are caused by incorrect management or the work of the ski centre administration, then it is the obligation of the ski centre to repay money to all the users of the services.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27334	National MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 79th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27335	Dear People's MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today, May 23rd, we are discussing a law on public ski resorts, despite what happened to us on Sunday. That part of our Serbian people is a team of so-called. Montenegro's democratic referendum secededed from Serbia, from the majority part of the Serbian people, wrapped up in the EU's "democratic" decision and mafia regime, Milo Djukanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, has not officially called today, nor has it taken place. Today and the next days, the National Assembly should discuss where Serbia will continue, where the Serbian people, will continue to allow us to be taken away by part of the territory, to tear up the Serbian people and to gather ourselves together in Belgrade or, worst case scenario, to Belgrade's pasture. This law, which is on the agenda today, discusses amendments, when looking at the 82nd member of this law, the interpretation of the law itself and the transitional and final provisions, of Articles 79, 81 and 82, and I have submitted the amendment, on behalf of the SRS, to Article 79, clearly shows that many of the provisions provided for here should not be in any law. They were supposed to be the subject of sublegal acts and normative acts, these ski centres, as predicted by this law to form. It is not the essence and background of this bill allegedly editing and the work of ski centres, and at all the behavior and business in ski centres and ski trail organisations, skiers' behaviour on those trails. The point is different. Here, SRS MP Verica Radeta spoke, and I am saying that the background of this bill is that these public enterprises are allegedly formed, and behind the abduction and robbery of what remains in the possession of Serbia's state and Serbian citizens. It is about ski centres that have been working and operating for decades and forming new ski centres and that, reportedly, by declaring that public interest, the mafia, which has robbed Serbia's citizens, has taken over now the Kopalnik, Tara, Zlatibor, Golia, the Old Mountain, and perhaps some other space that will be declared public interest. It is likely that the legislator of the law of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, Prof. Dr. Bojan Dimitrijevic will not hear about the bill, and probably participates, I have no doubt, in proposing some solutions, when it comes to the provisions of this law, Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic. Minister Ilic has mastered the Ibari Master's Office, and is now trying to doctor on concessions of built Serbian highways, which were built by Serbian citizens, both from the budget and from loans, and even from these years of the current government, so-called. The democratic bloc, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, continues to use loans to build highways, all on the burden of this people who are extremely difficult to live. Many in the factories lost their jobs, through the so-called. Privatisation, that is, robbery and kidnapping. And those who are fortunate to work, work under extremely difficult conditions, have low salaries, not to talk about the state of agriculture and in all the social services in Serbia. Here it is said, when it comes to Minister Ilic and his behaviour and the management of the Ministry of Capital Investments, but unfortunately, there are no state authorities, the state does not function, there is no rule of law, to make accounts around many so-called so-called so-called. an affair. And these aren't affairs, these are criminal acts, when it comes to tenders, procurement and works when it comes to the Ibar Highway. Here's just one example that I've set here in front of the People's Messengers - a tour around Zica. Winters, in a pre-election campaign in the Kingdom, Velimir Ilic said it cost 175 million. After the presidential elections ended, it was said that it cost a bypass around Zice's 135m monastery. On Friday we held a session of SO Kraljevo and in the report on the work of the Directorate for Planning and Construction of the Municipality of Kraljevo, where there is no place to stand those figures, and amounts and investments of the Road Directorate, it is clear that the bypass costs 90 million. Of 175, subtract 90 and you see the difference. The direct interest of the minister of capital investment, when it comes to implementing this law, is what happened in January, when he cut off the tape of the new cableman on Kopalnik, in which twom euros were invested from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and when he and his secretary, after opening or cutting the tape, crashed into Kopalnik. Will the mafia, which has taken over most of Serbia's assets, also take over Kopalnik, Tara, Zlatibor and probably, by declaring public interest, a vast space of Golia, the Old Mountain? In fact, the mafia will fence hundreds of hectares with hotels, cableways and debauchery on the burden of Serbian citizens. Those who have robbed or robbed on various grounds are likely to need centres now, to spend in debauchery what they have robbed or continue to rob, thanks to such a government, such state institutions, the failure of the state of Serbia. I will now return to the amendment that I submitted to Article 79 to clearly show how many of these provisions and explanations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were without any basis and that, in fact, only this objective of kidnapping and robbery of public enterprises, so-called. Ski resorts, hiding behind this bill, because the government has accepted amendments to Articles 80 and 81, and has not accepted the amendment to Article 79 that I have submitted. Article 79 reads: "The rules adopted on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 23, Article 25 of Item 5, Articles 50 and Article 53 of Article 5 of this Act will be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of this Act." The government has accepted an amendment to Article 80, which now, with the adoption of the amendments, reads: "Employments and other legal entities will bring their affairs into line with the provisions of this law within six months of its entry into force." The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic in front of the SRS and was accepted by the government. The government also accepted Milan Veselinovic's amendment to article 81, which reads: "The ski centre is obliged to ensure that persons employed, or engaged in the business of the head of the track and directors meet the conditions laid down by this law, by 30.11.2006 at the latest." Now, when I look at the government's reasons for not accepting the amendments I have submitted, it turns out that the competent ministers under Article 25, which are the Minister for Tourism Affairs, the Minister for Sport Affairs and the Minister for Transport, agreely closer to prescribe minimum technical conditions for the organisation, marking and maintenance of the ski resort, and that ministers have no obligation to bring those instructions or sublegal acts within three months, or three months before they have the obligation of public ski resorts to bring their acts and agree their business with all the provisions of this law. I can't, as a lawyer, accept the government's position and competent minister of trade and tourism. They probably didn't even get into the basic position of the amendment, they probably have a lot more pressing problems. Minister of Trade and Tourism to provide the largest space for goods from Croatia and Slovenia, from Western Europe and other countries. He doesn't care about Serbia's exports to reduce the pay deficit, that Serbian citizens are able to produce at least goods for their own market. Unfortunately, this work by the Minister of Trade and Government of the Republic of Serbia has produced many imports, which has never been backwards for decades or even goods of broad consumption, food products. And not to mention the busyness of the Minister of Capital Investments and when this agreement will be brought forward, agreed and laid down minimum technical conditions for the editing, marking and maintenance of the ski resort, the provision of Article 25(4), and the Minister of Sports has some obligation, under Article 50, to prescribe training, etc. The inconclusive nature of this law is also clearly referred to by criminal provisions. Article 72 shows that the offence will be punishable by a legal person, i.e. a ski resort, a fine of 50-350,000 dinars, if: 2) does not control the general state of ski resort and does not keep it in the proper state, i.e. in a state that enables the purpose and safe use of the track; 3) does not maintain a cable and safety area around the cableway in a condition that enables safe use of the cableway; 4) does not arrange and the equipment of the ski resort so that it is safe for the users; 5) does not provide on the ski grounds a regular service, rescue service and emergency medical service. Now, imagine these fines that Minister Dinkic, thanks to your parliamentary majority, imposed on Serbian citizens, in many provisions of the law when it comes to tax regulations, as well as other regulations in the financial area, so the minimum penalty for delay if not paid in the same day of VAT is 100,000 dinars, but he fought hard for it. And last night, he couldn't wait to hear from London and comment on state television, so on. Public service, what happened in Montenegro. I am deeply convinced as a man above all else, and as a People's MP of the SRS, that this will not last long. The citizens of Serbia, this terror, this humiliation, this destruction will no longer allow. It will have to come to an election soon and you know who will come to power – the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27336	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Zlatan Jovanovic and Vjerica Radet spoke of the word; Radeta Verica and Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27337	Article 80 reads: "Employees and other legal entities will coordinate their business with the provisions of this law within 12 months of the date of its entry into force." And the amendment proposed that it be a six-month period and it was accepted. But only by accepting this amendment to Article 80 has it become unclear and illogical why an amendment to Article 79 has not been accepted. Article 79 states: "The rules adopted on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 23, Article 25(5), Articles 50 and 53 of this Law will be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of this law." Two basic reasons why this amendment needs to be accepted: the first reason is, what will be brought in six months. We suggested that it be a three-month term. What will be brought within six months when, we have spoken today and in principle debate, this law and regulation and instruction. I don't know what sublegal acts can come out of this law, when the law itself is written as a sublegal act, with all the details, I don't know what else can be regulated. The second reason why this amendment should be accepted is contained in the government's reasoning, which is why the amendment does not accept. The government says, "The amendment is not accepted because the proposed deadline is adequate for the regulation, whose application would begin in the next winter tourist season." Well, we're just about to cut this law down to three months when it's passed in the next winter tourist season. And as the government says that if the six-month period remains, the application will begin in the next winter tourist season, I really don't know, and that's actually impossible. This law cannot enter into force until June 1st, at all. Today is May 23rd, we still have some laws on the agenda, so you have a voting day, so after the day of voting on the eighth day of the day of publication, there is no way he can get into effect before June 1st. If it enters into force on June 1st, these sublegal acts will only be completed on December 1st. Well, then they have to come into force, too, and they're published in official papers, I don't know, cities, depending on which municipalities, etc., depends who brings them. So there's no way this season is going to apply this law with these sublaws. I repeat again, and I wish the minister were here, I would really insist that he tell us what are sublegal acts that can come out of this law, which is more regulation and instruction than the law. Then, of course, what was proposed in Article 80, Stevovic proposed there an amendment to bring companies and other legal entities in line with the provisions of this law within 12 months of its entry into force. If you have not accepted this amendment to Article 79, then the question of non-compliance is really raised between Articles 79 and 80, because the company and other legal entities must coordinate their business with the provisions of not only this law but also sublegal acts if they are in place on 1 December, as this is also understood in the application of the law. The application of the law means the application of both laws and all sublegal acts, and then these companies and other legal entities, as you say here, therefore adopt their statutes, Rules of Procedure, regulations, whatever they are baptized, and must comply with both the law and the sublaws. You don't cut a deadline here, but it still takes the Minister and the Ministry six months to do something, and here you've predicted 12 months for the company and other legal persons. They're mostly private companies and they don't have some excessive number of employees. He's a lot more ministry employees and a lot more time. You are, I suppose, divided there by some kind of resort and you know who's in charge of what, which assistant minister with his group of associates, and I assume you have prepared sublegals. At least that's how they do serious ministries. They do all the sublaws, they let the law into the assembly procedure, you know that you have a congregation majority, if you have, and as soon as the law is passed, published, effective, you act with sublaws. That's how serious ministries and serious ministers do it, and they don't just leave themselves the longest deadlines possible; and then even in an explanation as if we're crazy, illiterate, he says -- they don't accept a deadline cut so that the law can be applied from the next winter tourist season. It's just amazing. It's amazing if whoever suggests this is illiterate or unserious or deliberately doing this kind of thing to distract the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, I really don't know, but I don't see anything here either normal or legal or stately. We really can't let you insult us like this anymore. Your proposals, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, also insult the peoples' MPs and the intelligence of Serbian citizens. I repeat, I say this to every minister, Serbian citizens are much smarter than their ministers and do not play with Serbian citizens, gentlemen of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27338	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27339	It is good that the government accepted this amendment, otherwise everything would have become pointless, as the proposal said that the ski centre would ensure the application of this law by 31.12.2005, as the law entered the procedure a year and a half ago. I'm surprised that the government has not submitted an amendment to this article, but has submitted to Articles 4 and 5 where it has essentially changed the character of this law. I just want to tell you a few sentences, to recap this debate. The essence of this law is the establishment of public enterprises, ski centres in Serbia, and is probably in line with the Tourism Development Strategy, which we have not yet seen. That's the point, all the rest of this story we've been listening to and what we have written in this proposal is just a form or a mere filling in some space that would satisfy the form. What scares me and I fear, as an MP and probably most of the MPs here or most of the citizens of Serbia, is the intention behind this. I'm afraid the intention of the authorities is to make their privatisation immediately after the formation of these ski centres in public enterprises. It is not logical for them to survive, because they have long existed as public companies ski centres, while at the same time having one tendency to privatise those important public enterprises such as EPS, NIS and others, which are much more important for the functioning of the state and to meet some of the needs of Serbian citizens. Therefore, he is concerned that it will go very quickly to privatising these ski centres and that this privatisation will pass as any previous in a very suspicious way, in a criminal way. And that individuals who are in power, close to the authorities, will come into possession of such significant objects as ski centres, where they will be able to take huge amounts of money in the next period. Privatisation, that is, the Privatisation Act, which was adopted several years ago here when DOS was in the greatest power, when you who were in the ruling coalition today were an integral part of that DOS and were active participants in the adoption of such a law, that law is more than an issue of the country. The consequences of the law are much more difficult for Serbian citizens since Serbia's bombing and any acts of betrayal, and there have been many in the past few years. I can list 20 companies from Užička County that are privatized, in which the situation is catastrophic, from the "Rocket", which is currently current, via "The Unity", via "The Road", through workers from Požega, via "Trikotage" from Baja Basta, "Laminate" etc. It's terrible what happened to that privatisation, and it's terrible that this government isn't doing anything to try to undo the consequences of such criminal privatisation. In particular, in the case of the Rocket, although workers have tried various ways to reach the traffic minister, Mr Ilic, they have failed. They failed, and Minister Ilic comes to Uzice, visits the villages in Uzica, opens the airport in Ponikva, and won't stop at the Rocket. He doesn't care about Rocket. Or he'll come to the Rocket now that the election in Uzica is being held, so he'll show up and perform as the savior of the Rockets in an attempt to tie 600 families to his candidate, the ruling coalition candidate, to win several thousand votes. It's all disastrous for Serbia. I don't know if it makes any more sense to ask the authorities to take action. Although in the campaign before the elections you promised to review many privatisations, none of it was done, none of the privatisations were cancelled, nothing happened, everything remained on mere promises. It continues to promise everything and everything to the people, who probably, in the absence of those basic living conditions, still swallows those stories and lightly made promises. He still hopes that there will be something of those who exercise authority, for they have, which the people say, and the knife and the loaves, but there is nothing of these promises. On many occasions we saw it, and the people saw it, that everything remained in promise, and that nothing was fulfilled, and that the people were getting harder and harder to live. There's no point in praying to anyone anymore. We, as an opposition in this parliament, must start the people and it must be launched itself so that in Serbia, the sooner emergency elections are discussed, because only these extraordinary elections can make a change and can lead to the authorities of responsible people who will question everything that has happened in the last five, six years, which I hope will improve the situation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27340	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Momir Markovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we MPs of the SRS go out for a pay phone and explain what to explain, but some are not worth explaining, and I have no intention of teaching MPs by ruling most of what it means. However, regarding the formation of public enterprises and afterwards, the privatisation of these companies, as well as the robbery through that vision, I believe that this amendment should be adopted. A dispatcher has arrived at the SRS, which I must read and show you how well those privatisations you boast about have passed. We were approached by the Association of Harmful Shareholders "Apatian brewery of Apatin", and you said it was the best privatisation where the workers were not damaged, that until the last dinar the workers were paid and that Apatin was rich. Did you want anything, sir? Come out later for a pay phone and say it. Well, let's see how these same workers of the same "Apathian brewers" have been robbed. They say this is the chronology of the events surrounding the theft of the actions of the damaged "Apatian brewery" shareholders, created after the first auction on 29.4.2002. The first auction began on 29.4.2002 at 12.00 hours. The price of action has reached a level of 24,000 dinars. The then director of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, Mr. Zoran Jeremic, interrupts the auction, explaining that this high price will lead to a imbalance of the securities market and schedules a new auction in 13.00 hours. Meanwhile, stock exchange terminals are moving timers one minute ahead, in order to, by this move, prevent the previous bidder from being present in the form of delays. There's an auction going out without a starting price. KBK broker manually corrects orders and broker customers does not have a dinar cover for trade, an auction scheduled for 13.00 hours is held for unknown reasons interrupts, and 8/05.2002 at 12.00 hours in the Berza premises a meeting is held behind closed doors. The meeting is attended by the directors of brokerage houses, Berza Zoran Jeremic, Bozidar Djelic, the famous "Boža dericoža" as chairman of the Management Board of the Berza, Aleksandar Vlahovic, and that is the "yellow" minister of economy and privatisation and the representative of the broadcasters, when the price of 1,350 dinars is agreed on by action. So, from 24,000 they took the price down to 1,350 and that's where it starts. All these allegations were confirmed by the Federal Commission on Papers of 12.06.20002. She has ordered the Stock Exchange to ban the work of the KBK broker from one year, and what has been carried out. Then, the Federal Securities Commission orders the stock exchange to hold a new auction, which has never been made. Meanwhile, the director of the Stock Exchange resigns due to a failure in the Stock Exchange on the issue of the auction. In this dubious store, 44,216 shares were sold. You multiply that by 24,000 dinars, so you subtract these 1,350 dinars per share and you'll see how long it took to rob the citizens of Apatino and the owners of the action. Four days after that, shares of the Action Fund were sold 9.13% at the cost of 167.76 euros per action. That's, like, 14,000. Now the state has been robbed by 10,000 by action, because this 9.13% is state property. In this illegal suspicious transaction, about 700 shareholders were damaged. The shareholders are being organised and formed by the Association of Shareholders on 16 September 2002 and file a complaint to the Trade Court. Chronology goes on: The trade court holds two discussions and is declared incompetent and transfers the case to the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade. The Third Municipal Court judge, Jasmina Celebic, held the debate in 7.04 and held shareholders without any explanation until the end of October 2003. By the fall of the government of Zoran Zivkovic in October 2003, Judge Celebic declared the conflict of jurisdiction and transferred the case to the Serbian Supreme Court. It determines the jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Belgrade at the end of December 2003. The trade court held five discussions in 2004, and on 10.11.2004, a verdict requiring the KBK broker and the Belgrade Stock Exchange to return to the owners of the action confirmation within 15 days, as the auction was never completed. The KBK broker and the Belgrade Stock Exchange are complaining of this solution to the High Court of Commerce in Belgrade. The subject matter of the High Court of Commerce lies for more than 10 months and, with our involvement, associations of damaged shareholders, the Ministry of Justice and judicial oversight finally brings a verdict requiring a new trial and confirming all the irregularities that have occurred. The senior trade court gives priority to financial compensation, while the damages were accepted in 12.12.2005. The Belgrade Stock Exchange and the KBK broker have no new evidence, but they re-dispute the court's jurisdiction. The trade court is making a decision to reject the application for jurisdiction, which the Belgrade Stock Exchange filed on 23.01.2006. The High Court of Commerce on 3.02.2006 receives a complaint from the Belgrade Stock Exchange, numbered PZ 1154/2006, on which nothing has been done today, they further say, "and we have performed both oral and written emergency on behalf of Radomir Lazarevic, President of the Higher Trade Court, and by believing in you and your parliamentary group, we ask you to help us solve the problem of damaged shareholders." With that in mind, I ask the MP's question to the Minister of Justice: "What has been done and what is intended to be done at the most recent time to damage the damaged shareholders? What is done and what will be done at the most recent time to bring about justice and punishment from this court? How many more of these sales, or robberies where small shareholders, private workers who have worked in these companies, people who have come to action in a certain way, have been robbed and how much longer are they prepared to rob Serbian citizens in this way?"- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27342	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 12 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PRIVATION LAW You have received the amendment submitted jointly by MPs: Milorad Vucelic, Dragan M. Jovanovic and Bojan Kekić. You have received reports from the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee, as well as from the Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milorad Vucelic, Dragan M. Jovanovic and Bojan Kekic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Proposer Branko Pavlovic accepted this amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the founding of the Action Society "NIS-Capital" You have received the Government's opinion on the draft law. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the founding of the Action Society "EPS-Capital" You have received the Government's opinion on the draft law and report of the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the founding of the Acctionary Society "PTT-Capital" You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the draft law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. This concludes the morning part of the session. Resume work at 3:30. By then, all problems with the system will be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-23-0.u27343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, there is Minister, Mr. Parivodic, I have been informed in detail about the technical problems you pointed to during the afternoon, and the MPs and the chairman, Mr. Vojislav Mihailovic, whether it is possible to record, depending on what the microphones have periodically cancelled, and since the Assembly has been working in detail on the details of these days and since today would normally only take place until 18,00 hours, in accordance with Article 85, paragraph 1, with all the understanding of you MPs and Minister Parivodic, the debate in particular of this point will begin tomorrow at 10.00 hours, to review all the techniques, so that no accident happens today. Thank you so much for understanding. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit.
