ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28092	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Blagica Kostic and Dusan Prorokovic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of the City (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the Bill by the National MPs: Miloljub Albianić, Hranislav Perić, Vjerica Rade, Natasa Jovanović, Zoran Krasić, Zoran Antic, Sreto Perić, Momir Marković, Nenad Mitrović, Dragan Čolić, Nemanja Šarović, Paja Momčev, Radiša Ilic, Vitomir Milošević, Ivan Radić, Bozidar Koprivica, Stevica Dedjanski, Dragoljub Simonović, Dragan Zivkov, Milivoje Vuković, Branislav Janković, Sulejman Spaho, Nikola Lalić, Vojislav Miljajic and Petar Jojic, as well as the Finance Committee. National MP Milojub Albianic, writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 37, which submitted a new amendment to the same member on 30 May 2006 at the same time. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28093	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Article 1 which regulates Article 9 of the basic Law on the income tax of citizens, it regulates when taxes on income and to what amounts are not paid, and that is where the proposer has set certain limits when those amounts are provided for. So, in Article 9 so far, the untaxed income was considered in the event of the death of an employee, a member of his family, or a retired worker, up to 30,000 dinars. The changes and additions required that the amount be increased to 35,000 dinars, and in the amendment submitted by Verica Radeta, on behalf of the SRS, the amount increased to 45,000 dinars. The reason for the increase in this amount is that in the past period, since this law was passed, inflation has been far greater than 12 or 13%, as far as this increase is concerned, means that it was even 30 percent, or more, so in fact, this amendment agrees with the amendment and addition of the Law with the amount of inflation, i.e. the rise in costs to a little. This income, especially when it comes to the exceptional circumstances, is not considered to be a great deal of money to be made, since it is a death case where it is a tax exemption for a legal person, an employer, gives to his worker about the settlement of these costs, and especially since we already had a law that reduces when it comes to self-payment of the state on the basis of a death case, so now I see no reason why we would be so restrictively acting and taxing as income is more than 35,000 dinars, given the cost of a funeral, given the current economic situation in the country, given the level of income in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So this is not a choice about whether money can be spent or not, this is about money having to be provided, that's one need. Furthermore, it is required in paragraph 4 to increase the amount of food compensation paid to amateur athletes by the amateur sports club, in accordance with the law, etc. and to increase that amount from 4,500 to 5,000 dinars, as well as grants and loans from students, students are not considered revenue of up to 5,000 dinars, or 6,000 dinars, as requested in the amendment. Given what our economic situation is, that our citizens can hardly provide even the basic funds for their children's education, to expect help from the state and from the businesses in which they work, that now they must, thanks to the policy run by the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, to raise loans not to provide well for themselves and their family, but only to be able to school their children, should the state be more reasonable to treat the situation where our citizens are and that the budget, which you are so boasting is in a surplus, at least when this part is to increase the amounts that allow businesses to allocate more significant funds for the scholarship and education of students. Quality of personnel, teaching, programs, etc. Which certainly depends on the financial situation of the family, i.e. the student, we are actually investing in the future of the country, but with one such restrictive policy, because the government has rejected this amendment, in any case it does not benefit the citizens. The only purpose of the rejection of the amendment is either being filed by the SRS or someone doesn't care about the situation in which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are. What surprises is that when it comes to tax policies and these as well as previous governments, and this minister as well as the previous, when it comes to incomes fixed for some amount and should be revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget, never forget to set the indexation there. So there's always a indexation of that. When it comes to the tax exemption, there are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have to wait from case to case, so when someone comes to thinking about making an amendment and supplementing the law and changing the amounts. Is there anyone who might have wondered, because we are changing this law for the third or fourth time and every time we coordinate these untaxable amounts, or the amount, and it is not taxed, with every amendment and addition of the law? Let us settle this once and for all, to determine the indexation, when it comes to this tax exemption, and that it does not have to be the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia each time to approve every tax exemption, but to lay down by law how it is regulated and to put an end to that story once.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28094	The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28095	I would like to inform the MPs that yesterday the Committee on Finance submitted an amendment, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, that there is a factual indexation of all items from exceptions to censorship in the law. So, the fact is, when we had a principle debate, that I promised that we would see this lack in the law that we saw together, which we did through the amendment of the Committee. So, look, you may not have arrived, Mr. Arsic, to look at the amendments to the Committee that were adopted yesterday, but there is anticipating the harmonisation of all the dinar amounts in this law with a rise in prices to a little bit, so that means that the essentially non-taxable censorship of 5,000 dinars will not be 5,000 dinars the day this law enters into force, which is 1 January 2007, but will be indexed by a price increase on a little from the day of entry into force of the law until the application. The same goes for these tax gains. Therefore, indexation is being carried out and therefore it is possible for taxpayers to have the same real discharge at all times. Once again, I would take the opportunity to say that these two laws significantly relieve our taxpayers for more than 31 billion dinars, that the law has allowed far greater employment of under 30 years and above 45 years of age from 1 September, given that they have been exempt from salaries and taxes on employers' burdens, all those who employ citizens under the age of 30 and over for a period of three years if they employ trainees, and in a period of two years, if they employ others who are on the Bureau for at least three months. The same goes for hiring older than 45 years on the Bureau for at least six months, too, for hiring persons with disabilities. Therefore, employers are exempt from the payment of contributions and no income tax is paid during a certain period of time. Also, benefits remain for less developed regions and poorer layers of the population, since non-taxable censorship means lower income tax will be paid by those who employ people in less developed regions and if they employ people in labour-intensive branches. This means a higher disbursement for municipalities in southern Serbia, for some municipalities in Vojvodina below average, and less disbursement for richer cities and municipalities. Also, a progressive rate of taxation is introduced for those who have higher incomes. So, what I wanted to say now about what my predecessor here said was an indexation was introduced by the amendment committee, and this should be taken into account in further discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28096	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28097	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 9. The law on the income tax of citizens in the first point of point 9 is said not to pay the income tax of citizens on income on the basis of income, and then says "helps in the event of the death of an employee, a member of his family or a retired worker, in the draft law, i.e. amend the law and stands up to 30,000 dinars". Point 12 says: "stupendence and credit of students and students – up to 4,500 dinars a month". These are truly inappropriate amounts, in a situation where Serbian citizens are in a situation, given the economic crisis and social misery that is so present, that indeed most citizens live below the existential minimum, the members of the government know it and regardless of the fact that this law, among other things, serves to fill the budget, we think that it is inappropriate in this way to play with citizens or laugh in the face of citizens, who, thanks to the vertices government of the Republic of Serbia, live as badly as they do. It's really funny that aid in the event of the death of an employee, a member of his family or a retired worker, is an untaxed part of only 30,000 dinars. We proposed an amendment to make it 35,000 dinars. Of course, that's not quite enough either, but it's closer to the real needs families need in these cases. And especially, it is an extremely inappropriate amount of 4,500 dinars for scholarships and loans from students and students, and the question is what can a student or student do with 4,500 dinars a month, if we advocate declaring that we are for the help of young talent, to help young people otherwise. You know well, since you've been in power since 2000, and the previous regime, that there's no free education anymore, no free health care, nothing free, we're only breathing untaxed air, because everything else you've taxed, Mr Dinkic, and now you suggest that the untaxed part of scholarships and loans of students and students be 4,500 dinars. We in the SRS think this is inappropriate and that this amount should be increased to at least 6,000 dinars. You well know what costs are to students and students from transportation, rent, food, textbooks, and not a single small part of the actual needs of students and students to cover, but your proposal to be only 4,500 dinars is indeed an extremely inappropriate situation and I suppose the government's intention to help students and students. Because if you've suspended free schooling and you're giving them some scholarships and loans, that's the money that's gonna come back someday. At least make them more suitable, so that these students, these young people, the students, the students and their parents and their families can benefit at least some of that. We suggest, of course, that this amendment be adopted. If the Minister does not adopt it on behalf of the Government, we propose it to fellow Members of Parliament. In the end, I want to send you a message from the people of Uzic, referring to those who hired the Victory Agency from Belgrade, from the Toplician's No. 11, with a phone number 321-9500. The citizens of Užica, are upset 24 hours a day, persuading that they are voting for the candidate of one of the ruling parties. You know exactly who hired this agency. We don't know who the pay is, though. Whether this is paid on the basis of the citizens' laws and taxes, it is most likely, given that the Serbian government is mainly campaigning for local elections. And indeed, the citizens of Užica tell you not to bother them anymore from this number of phones, to cancel the engagement of the Victory Agency, that they know for themselves who they will choose in the next elections and that they no longer want to listen to lies and deceive the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28098	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28099	Here's just one explanation why we refused this amendment to the SRS. Because we've increased the amount of untaxed student loans to 6,000 dinars. It is not 4,500, but 6,000 dinars, because in practice some employers use it to avoid and pay their obligations and display fictitious student loans. Otherwise, the Ministry of Education, which pays off student loans, always gets the right funds to pay taxes, since it goes from one register to another, so that those who really pay student loans, which is the Ministry of Education has a special budget to pay these taxes and contribute. The ban was imposed on some employers to abuse that right and avoid paying taxes to the state. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance and the Government have shown that they take care of young people by establishing a Youth Fund. Since the government's been working, the Fund has been as much as 10m euros this year. Scholarships are also paid for the best students, rewards are paid for those who win competitions, funds are paid for study stay abroad, and thus we try to stimulate young people to stay in Serbia. What I also want to inform the MPs of the National Assembly, the finance ministry received yesterday a proposal from the Ministry of Education to give consent to the opinion that the conditions of studying Montenegro's citizens with Serbian citizens are equal. We gave a negative opinion on this proposal, because they did not give an assessment of the financial effects, both direct and indirect, since we believe that indirect effects must be seen and that we must take account, above all, of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28100	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment which I want the finance minister and the governing structure to somehow reason that pensioners and future pensioners do not exercise power in a way that people do not want. Mr. Dinkic, you insist that for two years now a huge budget surplus has been emerging to you, and social giving and all other donations have decreased rapidly. The amendment that I have submitted, which you are giving me an explanation that is in accordance with the Labour Act, is something that is not acceptable to anyone in Serbia, especially for a huge part of the public who has been embodied because of such a vote of the Labour Act and not only because of it, but also, which Minister Lalovic himself dared to, after a few months, because the law in the integral text, as he wanted it and the Government, did not go through in the Assembly, appeared with amendments and additions to the Law, and precisely what MPs at one point voted for workers, for pensioners, for all those who use the right under the Law, he changed by promoting the parliamentary majority. Here, let's say, that was in March of last year, when we managed to return many contributions to workers and employees by voting for the amendments that we individually submitted, and then after a few months, it seemed to me last fall, Lalovic showed up with changes and supplements, and so he cut off all the employees in Serbia. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is about how to determine the amount of severance to retire. I, meanwhile, wondered how things were going when it came to, not this republican average, which is about 21,000 dinars for last month, but an average taken at the city level. Everyone takes this republican average because they tie it to a collective contract if they have it signed with employers. However, this is normal thinking. We think that according to the growth of that average of monthly earnings at the level of the Republic – if last month is about 21,000, taking into account the still undefined percentage, or inflation rate, it might be, say, 25,000 dinars at the end of the year, that we are now not calculating and not speculating the figures – then it would be the most fair thing to, as I suggested on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the retirement allowances are in line with that republican average, how the income is growing at the level of the Republic, which is poor and poor, none, and you yourself know that this amount is nothing, that a lot of people and receive no income at all, and that these are essentially money that can't bring any capital gains, nor to solve any of these people's problems. But if you are already making severance payments for people who are going to retire – you now have a case for people who are going to lose their jobs because of the collapse of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, you have many people who will have to retire or be forced to retire, especially in banks that went into the privatisation process in the way you did it, and then people are forced to retire, up to some year, how many, a year, two, bought them that internship, and when it came to pay for their severance, it is now as it stands, Mr. Minister, recalculate it, or ask your advisors, for thousands of dinars smaller than the way the SRS determines it. First, these people retire, have done their working century, some minors under duress have to go because of the general chaos in Serbia's economy, which has arisen. Every penny is important to him, every man who's served a lifetime and needs to retire for that amount, usually that's the way it is. I'm guessing you're a lot of retired kids, too. What did your parents do when they got those severances? They may have bought something for you, your children, if you have it, something they wanted to buy for themselves as a memory, to honor their colleagues, to make a send-off, and that's the amount, in general, of thieves in the state for those who don't know what to do with the money, and there's a lot of it, but most of it is misery and poverty, in fact nothing. Now that you look at the average of 100 euros for the future pensioner, it's a lot to him. For 100 euros or 8, 9 or 10 thousand dinars, he wants to do something, to invest that money in something or to put some suitable gifts, as I have stated that pensioners usually do, to cheer up their family members, and I think calling on the Labour Act, and on the other hand, such a budget surplus that you boast is an extremely hypocritical attitude for those people who need to retire. No one can accept that. First because those who retire know that they have a very unfavourable pension bill and that it is a model against which the widest public and the SRS are explicitly opposed, from the moment this model of the pensions was invented by this dericoce before you, this then friend of yours from this Dosovo conglomerate, Bozidar Djelic. It was, somewhere in December 2001, I think when, I remember, that tax code package was passed, that then there was a change in the model of pension accounting. We also asked that the amount of pension be aligned with the average earnings in the Republic, i.e. with the increase in costs to little, i.e. you showed the consumer basket differently and the increase in the cost of life, rather than what it really is. I don't mean you personally, but the services that do it. The Republic Bureau of Statistics from month to month deceives citizens. I don't know if that information comes to you, take it nice and let them give you what a minimum consumer basket looks like and how much it costs, with all those groceries from the first to the last one of May 2006 and tell your wife to go to the market and to be strictly, you're the finance minister, so you're strict, you should be strict when it comes to every dinar, and tell your wife nice – please, go to the market and at these prices here as they gave me from the Republic Statistics Bureau, so buy all these groceries. She's gonna grab her head because she knows she can't find it anywhere in Belgrade. She may be able to find somewhere in some part of Serbia where it is produced in a larger amount or at a large or lower price, but in Belgrade and Kragujevac, there is also an expensive green market compared to the population's paying power. Such an amount for those items, no one can find basics at these prices. If the injustice has already been done on this side, that indeed more and more of your fellow economists are talking about it, from month to month, if there is an obvious manipulation of the statistical representation and model that does not actually reflect the real situation, then why harm, that is, that is, the state is cutting off future pensioners? That amount can therefore range from 5 to 10, to 15,000 dinars in the total amount of severance paid. And the fact that you gave me only a smut of reason that it is in line with the Labour Act is unacceptable for me as SRS MPs and for our entire party and for a huge number of Serbian citizens, because we think that this Labour Act is bad, that the way to determine the severance under that Law and all those charges that have been cut off by Serbian citizens is disastrous, that people are bitter and that is the key problem. People see that they have to pay taxes, that they have to pay contributions, that they give in the government's register, and in return they don't get anything. They've simply spent their whole lives investing, many in a housing fund for decades. Here, I almost got a call from a lady, she's an educational worker, from almost retired. She has no roof over her head, no kids of hers, she's spent her whole life investing in a housing fund, and you have some of your associates and government associates who don't know what to do with the money, the villas, the houses, the apartments. You know, then people hurt that injustice. If they're already retired under these or those conditions and these or those circumstances, then they need to be given what's right, because you can't have one archaic when you determine some other things, and this is how you apply them. And then, all the time, you're thrifty, you're saving, you're saving, you're saving, you're saving, you're saving, you're saving, you're saving, as long as you can, you just show up and say, "I have a budget surplus." Now nice tomorrow, when you go to Kragujevac for a cabinet session, since I, Mr. Minister, promised you a month ago, there's not so much when you were, they really welcomed you in the Joseph Broz manner, I don't know if they've informed you, the three televisions directly broadcast what you're talking about and how you're moving, because the whole town's coming, Minister Dinkic's coming and all is going to blossom, so millions of people are coming, and now, tomorrow, when you go, you see what you promised, I've recorded everything, and you and that Stevanović with you, a month ago. Will you be able to do that? And what about the employees of the Zastava Institute of Employment and Education, how will there be further investment in production, and how will you deal with the fact that there is no strategic partner for the flag? Until you get into a situation where you bring such a big investment into the city where I come from, where 40,000 people don't work, a few thousand of them will probably have to retire this year, and now according to this law, because you didn't want to accept my amendment, and that's for them to be cut off, then it's better if you didn't meet there and don't come. In a city where they are, everywhere in Serbia, it's very difficult, but where they seem to me, because of the number of people who live there, and because of the unemployment rate of the most pronounced social tension, to show up with just some story that doesn't drink water -- you know how you're going to go, like that predecessor of yours. He came in on a hot summer day in 2002 with two of his colleagues, with Vlahovic and Pitic, in Kragujevac, several months after the election... That's how it's going to happen with you, and the Kragujevci realized that it was, and those who believed them in 2000, the big con, and in those parliamentary elections in my city, they won the SRS convincingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28102	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28103	Thank you. This is an obvious example of how an MP does not read the law and how he may have good intentions, and he suggests an amendment that has a completely opposite fact. So basically, the MP who spoke now asks us to tax people who retire, not release them. Because she asks that those who retire be cut off from taxing severance. When people retire under the current law, Article 9 point 18 of the basic law, those who retire are scheduled to be exempt from paying taxes for the double amount of the average monthly gross earnings. We have proposed in the law to increase the amount of exemption to a triple amount instead of a double, therefore, to free those who retire more. And the MP proposes to delete that member. You know what it means to delete a member? Deleting a member means eliminating even the previous double salary exemption. So, if a member were deleted as proposed by MP Natasa Jovanovic, it would mean that no severance payment, paid for retirement, would be untaxed, but, on the contrary, Natasa Jovanovic would require the introduction of a tax on retirement benefits. Read the law. So what the government has accepted is: an increase in tax exemption. We want to make it possible to free more people who retire from paying taxes. Quite the opposite. In fact, the Labour Act was foreseen, so we explained that we are harmonising this with the Labour Act, so that a larger amount of severance payment can be paid. We now want the untaxed amount to be at the height of the triple average monthly gross earnings, which is about 90,000 dinars at this point. In other words, if someone is paid a retirement allowance of 90,000 dinars today, he would not pay taxes under the law. According to the previous law, it's about 60,000. We have increased the amount of non-taxable census, and what Mrs. Jovanovic is asking, she is asking to completely erase this and be zero dinars of liberation. I'm just asking you to read our laws carefully and when you're making amendments that you're making too many amendments or that at least an explanation, because I see that's not your intention. Your intention is also in this direction that the government has requested, therefore, to increase liberation. And we did it. And you're erasing the member, in fact, asking for that release to be completely abolished. It doesn't matter who wrote it, what matters is what's wanted, it's the implications. Whether it was written by Mrs Natasa Kovacevic, Vesna Arsic or someone else, it doesn't matter. It is important if Natasa Jovanovic's amendment is adopted, a higher pension tax will be paid. Contrary to the intensity. I'm just warning you that you haven't carefully read the law and that you've given the wrong amendment to what you want, nothing else. As for Kragujevac, as promised, tomorrow we open the works on the highway Kragujevac – Batocina, we received funds last week in the government. So, all that we promised, we'll keep it. But this is a request that MPs make sure if they want to free citizens from paying taxes, don't ask for amendments to the tax hikes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28104	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28105	You know, I assumed that whoever is running for a state office, especially at the office of the finance minister, must have a basic knowledge of what is the basic law, what are amendments and additions to the law and how the laws are read. Look, Minister, if there's anyone in your MP's group, maybe he can help you, since, apparently, the lady or the lady next to you who's been tampering with you doesn't know how to read the law. So, since you have tried to deceive both your MPs, or all the MPs in the National Assembly and the public, as you have done years ago, I now have to teach you a lesson in how to read the laws. Here, this is the Law and this is the bill on amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. There's a basic law and there's a law that changes. You're the one who suggested that we change the Law on Income Tax. Now, since you have changes in the members that change, usually the proposer's explanation is given, the proposer's explanation is incoherent here, because it's not based on any real parameters, because we have a catastrophic economic situation. Now let me not read you this nonsense, floscule, fiscal reform, none of it has any people. Then, Mr. Minister, I'll tell you which side it's on, look nice, because they haven't taught you, then follow what you don't know, and that's why you lie and deceive. Not from your stupidity, you may be smart, but I reserve for myself the right to determine whether or not you are, but this is obviously your ignorance. Then follow the provisions of the laws that are being amended. You don't know how to read the amendment, because I didn't suggest that this whole attitude be erased, as you were going to say, because some hate, some anger from you, solve it with yourself and with your party. I am responsible to the citizens of Serbia, as an MP, only telling the truth, and I advocate greater rights, which is my right, as an opposition MP and this party that cares much more about both social giving and about its programme activities and about the care of people and citizens. Since I was only reacting, you better read it, to what you suggested, and you suggested that item 18) of Article 9 of the Basic Law be changed, everything else remains and writes – "deliveries on retirement". You have now proposed to establish up to the amount which is as the lowest laid down by the law governing the work. It's that labour law I was just telling you about and that this model and determining pensions and severances isn't good. All I'm asking is that what you're proposing is erased, and that's exactly what it would have occurred to me to erase the whole attitude, that people don't have any severances when they retire. According to my model, or model of the SRS, it is not going to be determined on the basis of the Labour Act, because it is a classic suspension from pensioners, although it is increased in nominal amount, as you say, but, you little Miss, now shut up, be so polite and parliamentary, don't disturb me, because you are still just a technical person here, you are later Sufling him, you give him lectures when you come out, and now let him answer me again, it's obvious that man doesn't know. Since it's just the part of the text that applies to the way it's being determined, I'm asking for an amendment to be deleted, then you, Mr. Minister, next time you sit down and read it, so when you want to rephrase it, you're talking about the difference in amount, what it would be like to determine on the basis of the average growth of the monthly earnings, as I predict it on behalf of the SRS, and what it is according to this law of yours. (Chairman: Time) (Miljub Albianic, from the place: Time) Are you not well? Come on, please, you're so nervous, don't throw away, don't be rude, wait a minute. It's a serious matter. It's pensioners' severances. I just explained what this pensioner wants to do with his severance... (President: Please bring the end, you've exceeded the time. )......................................................................................................... To buy a gift to his children, to his grandchildren, to do something, to buy something in the house. I'm talking about a few thousand dinars for you is nothing or a few tens of thousands, and for those people it means a lot. Don't act like one. Next time, Mr. Minister, you better read the laws. Since you've already started cheating today, don't at all ask for Kostunica to justify you tomorrow, don't come to Kragujevac, because there's really going to be chaos. If that's how you go there to replace the thesis and manipulation of lying to my poor fellow citizens, you make it worse for people to stand on a living wound and pressure them more. (President: Please bring the end. Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich. I apologize to both you and your colleagues for maybe taking a little too much time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28106	Minister of Finance Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28107	It's one story and another what it says and what it's true. Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 1(6). The amendment reads - Article 1 paragraph 6 is deleted. I will read Article 1 paragraph 6 of the Law – In point 18, "until the average monthly average earnings per employee paid in the Republic according to the latest published information of the Republic's statistical authority", is replaced by the words "to the amount which is as the lowest laid down by the law governing the work. "It is obvious where there is a misunderstanding, whether ignorance, I will not enter into what the Labour Act says. This is Article 119(1). – the employer is obliged to pay, in accordance with the general act, the employed severance before retirement at least three average earnings. Why does it matter? Because so far, the Income Tax Act provides that the tax on severance is not to be paid up to a double average monthly profit, and the Law gives the company a greater right to free tax payments to triple the average monthly earnings. So, we're increasing liberation here. If the amendment to Natasha Jovanovic was accepted and Article 6 was deleted, it would mean that there is no tax exemption, but that the tax is paid in full on the severance payment. Now, what is a fruit of misunderstanding, in Article 1(6), what we're talking about, is not the basis for establishing a pension, but is the basis for the amount of tax exemption. That may be irrelevant to someone, but from the point of view of tax laws, the implications are the one I'm talking about. So, we're just saying that we're not going to release more at double salary, but at the height that the Labour Act has made possible, which is triple, because maybe tomorrow the working legislation will go in the direction of even greater benefits for workers, so it increases to a quadruple, fivefold. In order not to constantly change the income tax law, we determine the right established by the basic law for the area, which is the Labour Act. The labour law obliges to be paid at the height of triple monthly earnings. In plain terms, I repeat once again, under the current Income Tax Act, when someone retires, the employer is exempt from paying tax on severance for pensioners, if that severance is up to 160,000 dinars. By this law, if adopted, we increase it to 90,000. So, triple instead of twice the average gross earnings in the Republic of Serbia. For some reason, I really don't want to qualify, which is why I'm just drawing attention to the MPs not to vote in favour of that amendment, because the implications would be to tax severance payments, which I'm guessing is no one's intention or even the MPs of the SRS. In plain terms, I repeat once again, under the current Income Tax Act, when someone retires, the employer is exempt from paying tax on severance tax for the pensioner, if that severance is up to 60,000 dinars. By this law, if adopted, we increase it, release it, to 90,000. So, triple, instead of twice the average gross earnings in the Republic of Serbia. For some reason, I really don't want to qualify for why, by eradicating this article, I'm just drawing attention to the MPs not to vote in favour of that amendment, because the implications would be to tax severance payments, which I'm guessing is no one's intention, not even SRS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28108	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Come back, Mr. Minister. Is there something you're waving at me? Do you have a problem? (Milojub Albianic, from the scene: You have a problem. ) No, there is a problem with a minister who deceives the public. Ladies and gentlemen, I brought it to you, any honorable man from the skin would have jumped out on such an explanation by Minister Dinkic for something he has now said. Look at the man he is. In what the minister suggests, therefore, we have a basic law in which it writes – severances on retirement, up to the amount of double average monthly earnings per employee paid in the Republic according to the latest published data by the Republic's statistical authority. On the side that the minister doesn't know what a member is, what an attitude is, what a point is, what an alinea is. A man doesn't know anything about it, it doesn't matter. He comes out here and talks, and he doesn't even know what he's reading. He doesn't understand what the law on amendments and additions to a certain law is. It does not change Natasa Jovanovic's basic text, but Natasa Jovanovic changes what Mladjan Dinkic changes. Changing the changes of Mladjan Dinkic only changes the part that he changed. It has nothing to do with the part that even regulates the retirement severances, but it only changes how to determine what should be paid to the pensioners. Since a man doesn't understand it, I can't understand it. I don't know what to say. I'd jump out of my skin. I wouldn't say he's crazy, as you from his MP group show. I would rather say that man deliberately deceives the public, that at all costs he wants to deceive the public, that at all costs he wants to show the citizens of Serbia that he can turn everything around. Why did he need to get out now? Because he knows there's no argument, because he knows he wasn't telling the truth. I don't have to use any more difficult words or answer your insults in any way. You're the only one who's been insulting me. You're the only one who's doing your job. It just shows what an ignorant Mladjan Dinkic is like. I thought he was an expert, that he understood something about what he suggested, that he understood the matter and the area he proposed, that he understood what this was about. He doesn't know the basic fundamentals of the legal technique that we serve here as MPs. He doesn't know because he's an unnatural minister. Yes, the non-national minister came out to salt the people's MPs, so the non-national minister would ban the MPs and even invent what they wanted with their amendment to say and how they wanted to do something with their amendment. It would be good for the non-national minister to return to school, learn more about it, to master the basic elements of legal techniques, and then to appear before the MPs, before those elected by Serbian citizens. Then his relationship with them will be very different. This only shows what hysteria has affected the regime. I just need to let you know one more thing -- let them do whatever they want and whatever they want, and we will continue our work to do in the most serious way, in the most natural way possible, criticising the authorities, criticising their solutions that are directly against the interests of the pensioners, against the interests of Serbian citizens, and Serbia's citizens will, in a few months, have the opportunity to show whether they love non-national ministers or love national representatives from some other political parties. You will also see the difference between the SRS and this hysterical part of the Serbian regime, which does not know what to do with it, and even less knows what to do with political opponents. (President: Time.) Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. I'm just letting you know, wanting to cheer you up, that we're going to defeat them so convincingly that they won't recover for at least five years from such a disastrous defeat in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28110	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Miloljub Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28111	According to the Rules of Procedure, and for the sake of the National Assembly's dignity, under Article 104 for the sake of truth, for Serbian citizens to know this, here is the situation: the finance minister's law proposes that conditions be improved for people who retire. By mistake or intent, I'm afraid because of your explanation of the intention, this amendment by the SRS wanted to make it difficult for people to retire. Since their supreme legal principle in the Assembly – this and that member of the law are deleted, that's what their "top" amendments here say, and they haven't thought about what it means to be deleted, now that they realize it, they're trying to convince additional people of something that's living truth. So the minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia want to improve the conditions of retirement, and the SRS wants it back, to additionally burden the citizens of Serbia and now to explain how they are right. You see the hypocrisy, demagogy, the empty story, etc. Find another member where you hit that "decease." It is not worth it to you in such a way to work here, because Serbian citizens understand the matter, they know what it is. You're trying to deceive Serbian citizens here. That's your goal, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28112	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28113	I have to tell you one thing: I've been listening to him now and I don't know what to say. You are an insult to common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I have brought to you an explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia why the amendment to Natasha Jovanovic is being rejected. The explanation, "legal genius", Mladjan Dinkic, why he refuses the amendment, where he doesn't even mention what he was talking about, because this was written by professional services, smarter people, because this was written by some who understand it, because this was written by some who have no idea what they're talking about, unlike you. Oh, my God, aren't you ashamed? How are you not ashamed to go out for a pay phone and say such nonsense? How are you not ashamed of the citizens of Serbia that you are forcing them to listen to? In the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is said: "Amendment is not accepted since the amount of non-taxable severance paid by the employer to the employee on his retirement is fully in line with the amount of severance that is as the lowest right prescribed by the Labour Act". Oh, my God, what does that have to do with erasing severances or not knowing what you'd want to point out here, and what would you say? You don't understand what's being erased at all. You think it's funny?? There are no cameras to take pictures of you, to show how you look and how you laugh at Serbian citizens, to show the citizens of Serbia how you are able to come out to say such nebulises and to expect serious people to come out and suit you. I don't want to answer that. I don't want to do that. It just makes no sense for me to answer that, because it seems to me that there's no point in teaching you legal technique, because you'll never understand it, but you'll understand some other technique, a technique that has nothing to do with what you've been doing, a technique that has nothing to do with burning down the congregation and television, but a technique of paper and pencil. By using a pen and using a pen on paper, the people and citizens of Serbia will say goodbye to you from this National Assembly, which you will no longer see on the postcard.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28114	National MP Milorad Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28115	Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. For the sake of the National Assembly's dignity, and because some do not understand and try to deceive the National Assembly and the public of Serbia, I will repeat. We caught you lying and cheating. You tried to deceive the MPs, the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian citizens. The government and the ministry are proposing benefits for retirement. You're reducing these benefits, or you're removing them, and you can explain here whatever you want, in that scam, in the attempt, we caught you, and your supreme legal act is that you wrote an amendment to that and that member of the law and it says, "It's deleted." If you had legal skills, you'd have made a nice amendment to how that member of the law changes. Since you didn't know you wrote to delete, and you didn't realize then what the consequences were. Since the minister has explained to you what the consequences are, to abolish certain rights for people who retire, you have now begun to explain inexplicably. You fell into one trap, you made it yourself. So step back, admit you've made a mistake, give up as people of that amendment, and that's the whole point, because otherwise, by insisting on that amendment, you'll damage the people who retire. It is essential, but we as the ruling majority, as serious MPs and serious people, will not allow, citizens will retire under more favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28116	The word is Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so you will, Mr. Wolf. I'd like to warn you, try to treat each other with respect, not to abuse the Rules of Procedure in order to violate the Rules of Procedure, because if we don't really move on to the agenda, I'm going to have to take more breaks to calm down passion and atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28117	Since we are all here because of the citizens of Serbia and we all care about their interests, it is their turn to hear that we do not worry about their interests constantly arguing, but by establishing what they really are and what they really need. I'll remind you that once a pensioner worked for five employees, in the 1990s, and now 1.12 and truly understand everything my colleague from Kragujevac says, because I come from Šumadia, too, because I'm connected with Kragujevac and related and friendly relationships, many of my friends from the topol high school are working in Kragujevac, and I know how difficult it is in Kragujevac, but we're not going to help Kragujevac, or any pensioners if we solve all of this in this way. So the amount of severance is determined by the Law that regulates work and that is undeniable. I realized that's what's bothering you, but today we're talking about what part of that severance is untaxed. The previous member of the Law, which was in force here, said it was a double amount, and now this member is saying it's a triple amount and that's what we're arguing about. Since, indeed, I believe that we are all on a shared serious task, that the following interests and programmes of our parties help the citizens of Serbia and what is most important here for pension funds to really be as full as they used to be, to come back into the situation that five employees work for a pensioner again and, of course, allow all pensioners to mark their retirement in one dignified way, as the colleague said. This is about a misunderstanding. The misunderstanding should be corrected so that the triple amount is untaxable, because it is in the interest of those who retire.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28118	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Albianic came out here, laughing, seems to be their fashion today, the minister and many others, they are people who come to the National Assembly without ties, which is probably some new fashion, I guess that shows how much they respect this tall home and how much they respect Serbian citizens, but that's their choice, and that's the least of the problems. Mr. Albianic says here – we caught you in a lie and fraud. You guys have no idea what you're talking about. You have no idea this law has nothing to do with pensions. The name of this law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. It's about some taxation. You don't understand. You do not understand at all what the amendment means, which part of the proposed amendments and amendments are deleted, and the basic text of the Law remains and what Natasa Jovanovic insists on is added to that basic text of the Law. I can't explain it to you, there are just people who can't explain it, and I understand that it's impossible for you to explain it, but I'm sure it would be possible for Dinkic to explain it, but he doesn't want to understand it, he's not going to understand it because he doesn't want to understand it because he's ruthless, he's the hubris of your policy, the essence of the government that doesn't know how he's going to beat the opposition, but let's ban them, that we don't know what we're doing against them. Whatever you want, you can do. The two directors ordered that something be signed against the SRS in FAP, they want workers to lynch them there. Wherever they're going, whatever they're going to do, they're only using the principals. I ask the workers not to do so according to those set up by G17 plus. Mr. Albianic, I've been terribly tormented by these signatures, those 20,000 or 30,000, which we collect in two hours and all to the court to pay 500 dinars, in two hours as much as you're collecting 32 days. That's how it tormented us, Mr. Albianic. We gather it into two small-scale local committees, like you at the level of Serbia as a whole. One more thing, Mr. Albianic, we don't collect signatures from citizens to ban you, we don't think of it. Since you will have one or two, maximum 3%, when you invest a lot of money, you will not see the Assembly on the postcard. We're going to keep you as a little bit of palm water, as rare specimens, those who need to remind the citizens that we're never going back to that kind of past again and that's why you don't have to worry about your future at all. We'll keep you safe and safe. You'll be protected like a white bear and better than that, believe me, but I just have one more thing to tell you. We're preparing something else, not banning political parties, far away. We are a true democratic party, but not to be called a democratic party, and no one knows what is democratic about us. We're making something else. The moment you teach the lists to ban the opposition, to ban those who are against the regime, we'll hand over something else to the prosecutor, and believe it or not, a confession to 10,000 sides how you stole and robbed this country, a white book about your thief, and we'll see what the prosecutors say on the white book about your thieving and your "yellow" friends from the Democratic Party. And to me it's complete, and I realized that it's illusory to go out for a pay phone and discuss legal technique with you about what the amendments mean, because you don't have any idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28120	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28121	It's pointless, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to talk about something that's a matter of different understanding in the minds of certain MPs, but you know, that old Latin proverb says words fly, and it's written to stay. It's all good in here. In my amendment, which was only referred to by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not the subject of manipulation and speculation, it was professional services, people looked at what it was. If everything as some MPs from G17 plus and Minister Dinkic were to say for lack of understanding, obvious delusions, attempts at manipulation, my amendment would have been deleted in Article 9 of point 18. So, Article 9 of the Basic Law. As this is about amending and supplementing the law, and that's the last thing I'm going to explain to you, and it's about Article 1st Section 6, it's only half a sentence of what the minister is changing. This law is not the Pensions Act, it's not the Labour Act, that's what I tell those who haven't read. This is just about the amount of the non-taxable, so people don't pay taxes on citizens' income. Be careful, the amount of the non-taxable amount when they get the severances, not the height of two or three, and it's good that it's increased and it's triple the amount, but the height relative to the calculation model and the total height, so that it's not accounted for by the Labour Act, but as I wrote. And if that's what you're saying and you're trying to replace the thesis and the obvious manipulation to distract yourself from something else or that you feel guilty about us wanting to do much better to the citizens of Serbia than you do, then the government of the Republic of Serbia as an impossible committee would refuse my amendment. In that case, they'd say I was wrong and it doesn't apply to the part I'm talking about. No, they're quite in line with what my intention and intention of the SRS has responded. If you want, ask the competent services or Mr. Chairman, if you haven't found the envelopes, which you may not be opening and not reading, this amendment, then I will read to you and that is the last thing I will do, therefore, is one single sentence that speaks of the essence and my intention regarding this amendment. Only right and right here is what it says, so Article 1 of this law that changes, because you know, I wrote, "based on Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, not to the Law, the Basic Law, and you are returning to Article 9 and point 18. This is just a reaction in one part of that member. Therefore, that an untaxable amount is more favourable, i.e. to that amount which is higher in all statistical terms and criteria than the amount established by the Labour Act. The government of the Republic of Serbia still answers that the previous law has established this. I don't mind that you've given it to some majority you've collected, but that law is otherwise unfavourable and unnecessary that you've given it to me as an explanation, but a sentence in which I speak of the amount of untaxed, so the interpretation of the amendment, to anyone who knows how to read, children who just learn letters, although they don't know what this matter is, it's clear. So -- "The amount of severance that would not be taxed would have to be related to the amount of average monthly earnings in the territory of the Republic of Serbia," and signed by SRS MP Natasa Jovanovic. So much and really pointless to go on, and if you're going to be distracted, to manipulate yourself, to imagine something writing, not to write, not to read, to be bound by a law that's not at all the subject of consideration here, that's your business, but I'm telling you that citizens will also because of all these procedures and bad laws to punish you in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28122	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Before I give you my word, I would like to inform you that as of Tuesday, 20 June 2006, I am no longer a member of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia and that I will participate in the future work of the National Assembly as an independent MP. Please inform the National Assembly. People's MP, Free Zivkucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28123	I'm so glad we're back for the amendment debate. Mr. Vukic gave me compliments twice during yesterday and today, and I really thank him, and I want to return him, and I think you're a very intelligent man and that that's why you went to a political debate with the amendment, which may be useful, but in this case I thank you for coming back for the debate on the amendments. What is proposed is not here about the Labour Act, nor the Pensions Act, which has been well noted by many MPs who did not go out for a pay phone, but have often been thrown out rudely, I am really asking you to warn the MPs who receive rudely from the post in the future. To be clear, what has been proposed by the amendments to the Law is true that the untaxable amount is now threefold instead of the previous double. So that's what's proposed by amending the law. Of course, the interventions we are proposing regarding amendments to the law, not the basic law, so many Miss Jovanovic did not propose to delete the double amount, but she did suggest that the change be deleted, i.e. the untaxed amount be triple. I think it's totally undeniable and I don't think there's really any reason to be confused, with taxes, or wrong interpretations, to call on the Labour Act, to the Pensions Act, because it's about the Taxation Act, and it's clear here that a better solution is proposed for people who retire and get severance. The labour law defines the amount of this severance, and the Tax Act defines what the tax amount is. So, instead of the current, double average tax-free earnings, there is now a triple income tax-free, and that is quite clear, perfectly clear to all of us here, perhaps at some point there was a confusion about which law, etc. but I think all these confusions are being created to make it actually unclear that there was an error in proposing amendments. But it's no big deal to admit a mistake, because in this case, I think it's the interest of everyone to make an untaxable amount, maybe not all of them, but it certainly is for those who retire, to be taller. I really don't think there's any more room for these discussions, or for the political connotations that can be attached to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28124	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28125	Mr. Mihailovic, you had to use the authority of the chairmanship of the National Assembly and that those MPs who did not know what was on the agenda gently warned, because they obviously had the tactics to turn the discussion from this important topic to something that did not matter. So it's not on the agenda of the Pensions Act, it's not on the Labour Act, it's on another tax code, and it's one member talking about amounts that are not subject to taxation. Of course, you're all young here, you don't know, usually when such a situation occurs, it's called MP Zoran Micovic to turn around and solve as an expert on one branch of medical problems, when someone doesn't know what two, what three, so he sees zero in it, and then he runs faster and better, when he sees what mistake he made. It's really weird how this government works and how the Finance Committee works and how coalition partners work out what to do. Let me explain to you what this is about. In the debate on the principle of this bill, we had the opportunity to hear that there was some sympathy and some mood of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept the SRS amendment concerning the indexation of nominal amounts, which are determined by certain provisions of this law. At that time, it was said that there was a technical problem, and there is also a vanity that should not be adopted what comes from the SRS and at the beginning of today's work we had the opportunity to hear that the Finance Committee somehow accepted the indexation and brought in, or gave in its amendment. I now have to draw your attention that this is the wrong amendment. This is the amendment of the Committee, I am talking about it because it concerns the amendment I have submitted, because my amendment concerns Article 8. A proposal on amendments and additions, where I ask to introduce a new position that introduces the automaticity of synchronising the nominal amounts referred to in points 9), 12) and 13 per month with price increases to a small extent, according to data published by the competent authority in the Republic of Serbia for statistics affairs. Now I have to draw attention to you that he did something similar to that of the Finance Committee with his amendment second, I just got it, but here I see that it was wrong. Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 9 of the Finance Committee are mutually contrary. Both amendments are mutually opposite. Pay attention when you plead as Government, whether you accept the amendment of the SRS or the amendment of the Finance Committee. Now let's see what the government says about this amendment to the SRS. He says it is not accepted, and the amendment refers to the harmonisation of these amounts to which no income tax is paid and, among other things, states – if the SRS amendment were adopted, there would be "negative effects on budget income". I don't know why the negative consequences of budget revenue are when the budget's in surplus. It may have a negative impact on the level of surpluses, but it wouldn't compromise the budget. You have forgotten the last member of the bill where you say the law will enter into force only after 1 January 2007. This budget will have no impact. Furthermore, "especially in view of the fact that the proposed nominal amount corresponds to the level of expected inflation and the real growth of the gross social product for 2007, since the application of that non-taxable nominal amount". It's all wrong. Here you really need great experts to consider this problem of government. For the sake of the public, I have to explain why the jargon says indexation, and think, first of all, within the correct time limits to harmonising nominal amounts with the movement of prices to a little bit. The purpose is to protect the substance of what is defined as a rapper. If we take what is proposed to be in the position of 9, probably 35,000 dinars, as proposed by the government, will not have the same value if we get into a situation to use some right in April or May 2007. Maybe 35,000 dinars represented something on January 2, 3rd, but after 3.4 months, it's not that amount. I must, in doing so, draw attention to the fact that due to this kind of indexation that occurs through inflation and a rise in prices on small states also has a certain profit, as it is increasing due to the change in the prices of value added tax and everything else that the state is charging, which is the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is no logic in the state's use of the situation, obtaining funding for the budget, and that this same principle in terms of establishing a basis and harmonising the nominal amount to which a citizen is released does not also harmonize with the rise in prices to a small extent. That's the whole point. I took, for example, what is mentioned in point 9), which is 35,000, point 12) – 6,000 and point 13) where the same changes to 5,000. It takes this indexation, but it has to be two-way. Why did I bring this up to you? Now you return to the amendments of the Financial Committee, the second and ninth amendments, and you will see that these two amendments do not express this principled position on the indexation, but at one point appears monthly, at the second time a year with the previous year and you bring, if the amendment of the Financial Committee is adopted, you will have an inapplicable law. Consider this situation once again, a team that has plenty of time until Vote Day, so that it does not happen that before 1 January 2007, we are coming back and changing this law that is likely to be passed these days. Look, that's where the system error got stolen. Why doesn't the government accept it, if it's vanity, I don't know, it'll be a medical profession to resolve it. But, you see, the Finance Committee was faced with this problem, and in its explanation, it says, "Accepting the amendment would solve the harmonisation of the nominal amounts of tax reliefs, as well as the preservation of their real value." So, the intention of the SRS when it submitted this amendment and the intention of the Finance Committee, regardless of its composition, is exactly the same. The government does not accept our amendment, and our amendment of the Financial Committee differs only in some small details, even our better legal-technically written. Now the government will be in an awkward situation – yes, ours has already refused, how to accept this. Now I need to draw attention to some of the things that have been heard here about this law that changes this income tax regulation. You know, it's not enough just to write that up to some amount not to be taxed. A quality assessment must be made based on some analyses, not only statistical but also on some examples, and to see how much this is possible and what might be realistic from this project. Now I'm gonna go back to something Mrs. Radeta was talking about. I think there's something about students, students. It was some amount, and it doesn't even matter if it's 4.5 to 5 or 5 to 6, don't you take my word for it. (The Faith of Radeta, from place: four and a half six). Okay, it doesn't matter exactly, but few of whom you can convince in Serbia that this is some amount and a properly established rapper for that purpose. Now he seems a little weird. We're talking about some student amount, and people are getting a pension in that amount. They support themselves. I think they're both in a bad situation, but I want to draw your attention that you need to make sure that you know what the real costs are, the normal costs of a family. What could it be to single out a student for a student? If we lose our sense of reality, then they'll laugh at the citizens and say: they kill each other by talking about whether 4.5 or 5,000, and one or the other is low. With the right of tomorrow, someone in the paper can say that we ask MPs if they give their children 5,000 a month. We're all being ridiculous around here. For what? Because we don't want to see reality. We didn't want to go that far, because we're the opposition party. It is our job to distract you, to block you for something that we are sure leads Serbia to ruin, etc. etc. Let's do some sort of build-up of these amounts that would fit reality, roughly correspond to reality, because we're, you know, in one big stretch. It's not from a year or two ago, we're long gone. One real life, one life according to regulations, and in these terms there is a life, etc. So we have other situations, say, where we're sold fog, where everything and everything is presented to us with top-of-the-line range, genius, expertise. Here's to remind you: he was an expert in 2000, came to power, somehow came to power in Zemun, so he chose him as Director of Business Space. A top lawyer, fined 2m euros for citizens, 3.5m euros. Three and a half million euros in depth, fled abroad, a man fled abroad. You know, if we can't solve these things, then what, I don't know how to bring these things together. Is everything offered as an alternative worse than what was before. We can't change that, the moral law doesn't exist, it can't be passed, it could hardly be applied. If anything were to apply the law, then under the title of a book, "Son Major", Grujica Spasovic would never be Serbia's ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know who would normally pay the expenses of Vuk Draskovic in New York. He's a man signing a man as a minister. No minister without oath, no choice, no this. It's all going to our place. Because coalition capacities are slightly compromised and because of the preservation of the coalition capacity, it collapses into everything and everything. Good, you're setting us up so we can warn the public what's wrong, how bad it is, how long this is gonna take. Take a closer look at these amendments to the SRS. I know you hate it, but I know what we're proposing today you accept in two or three months as your proposal. Let's not get angry. There's a lot of our attitudes from a year ago in this text of the bill of law. Let's not be angry, one is political competition, the other is this. Accept if you consider it acceptable, but give us a little bit more reality because people will laugh at us when they hear – what you're freeing me for that amount, and that release on some stick, and the Committee proposes an indexation that would not start until 2008. Then the man says, "Well, don't defend me again, please, it would hurt me so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28126	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28127	Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Income Tax was passed in 2001 and was changed in 2002 and in 2004 and here we have one more amendment and addition of this law today. Why did I mention this? Because we of the SRS parliamentary group have submitted amendments to this first law and to any later amendments and amendments to this law, and, of course, our amendments have not been adopted, with some governmental unambiguous reasons, as are these arguments for these amendments. That is why some of our amendments are incorporated into these laws that are later proposed to the National Assembly, and we are convinced that this will be the case with these amendments. But we don't think that we really need to spend the time of the MPs and that it would really be much better if the amendments were accepted immediately with an appropriate explanation and that you finally got at least one law that is really applicable and that is in line with all the regulations to be called upon. You mostly bring, ladies and gentlemen, laws that are inadmissible. We're telling you about it, but you don't want to hear it, and then today we really have one large number of laws. You boast that these laws have been passed in parliament, it's true, they have been passed, but those laws cannot be applied. And our amendments are, whether we suggest that a position or a member of a law be deleted or we suggest that a new position be added or a member in a certain member of the law or a law, or we suggest changing the text of a government member, or the position of a bill, so whatever amendment of the SRS MPs is the ultimate and sincere intention for us to correct the government's draft laws, that we help you to do something good for the citizens of Serbia, because all the laws that you have passed so far, or no law that you have passed so far has brought any good to Serbian citizens. With no law, you have not increased the number of employees, you have not started production, you have not raised your pensions, you have not raised the standard of citizens, and it seems to me, dear colleagues, that this is the task of every government and you, or the government that you support when you take over power and when you voted for that government, you promised Serbian citizens that they would be much, much better. And it seems to me that the citizens of Serbia today would be pleased that at least the same thing is the same as when you took over power, but every day it gets worse and worse; every day it gets harder and harder to live, every day there are more and more criminal affairs, every day there are more and more high-ranking state officials involved in the affairs. These affairs open up to be distracted by citizens, while an affair gets out of hand in the drawer and some new ones show up. This is what the citizens of Serbia suffer because you do not want to, even though you are aware that this government has long lost legitimacy, since 3 June there is no legality either, you are aware of it and you do not call the elections, but that is why you are proposing very bad legal solutions and continuing your punitive work. In Article 2, you proposed to follow Article 9. The law on income tax is added by Article 9a, which according to the Government's proposal: "No income tax is paid to citizens on monetary income on the basis of the purchase price paid by the sale of capital in the process of privatising social and state capital, which is paid to a natural person in accordance with the 200-euro law in dinar equivalent for each full year of employment in a privatisation entity". Our colleague Zoran Antic of the SRS has suggested that this Article 9 be changed by eradicating this part that says - "in the amount of 200 euros in dinar equivalent for each full year of work experience in the privatisation entity", and in order to make it absolutely clear to the citizens what we really wanted with that amendment, I will say that this means that we propose that no income tax is paid to citizens on the basis of the purchase price paid by the sale of capital in the privatisation process of social and state capital, which is paid to a natural person in accordance with the law. Of course, we think that this solution is more appropriate, that income based on privatisation, income from employees in the privatisation entity should be released from all kinds of taxes. The government explained why it did not accept the amendment of counterpart Zoran Antića said the amendment was not accepted "as the amount of non-taxable capital in the dinar anti-value was defined as the amount transferred to employees without compensation from the purchase price achieved by the sale of capital in the privatisation process, according to the Privatisation Act and the Insurance Act". Therefore, in its argument, the government did not say anything new than it was written in Article 2's proposal, whose amendment was proposed by the amendment to the SRS. That's why the government, in the very bill of law and reasoning, writes us something that is unacceptable, which cannot stand in the law. You cannot use the euro in law because it is not a means of payment in Serbia. It's just amazing that this kind of thing can go through as a proposal, I don't know if this went through the Legislative Committee, through the Ministry of Law in the Government, I guess. It's a principled objection that applies not only to this law, but otherwise; you know that we had a bill where we were proposed English language in law, so here we are offered euro. It would really be good for you to understand that this is Serbia, that we have regulated all these things legally and that it is unacceptable that some new law introduces something that is illegal. The Privatisation Act and the Insurance Act called upon by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this explanation are laws criticised by the SRS and we have had certain amendments. Of course, especially when it comes to the Law on Privatisation, that is, the application of the Law on Privatisation of both the last and the previous ones, the point is that, unfortunately, in Serbia, a large number of privatisations have been made in a criminal way. Many in election campaigns promised that all privatisation procedures would be reviewed, even a representative of one of the ruling parties specifically said they would review 83 privatisations. I don't know if that means that this party had the knowledge that 83 privatisations were committed in a criminal way or if it was some kind of flat-rate number. Anyway, that job wasn't done. Of course, we do not think that all privatisations, nor are done contrary to the law, and whatever the law is, we know that it must be respected, but unfortunately, it is true that many privatisations are done contrary to the law, and that those made in accordance with the law, that in a magical way they play out the provisions of the contract. It is a major problem that Serbian citizens today face, those who have been employed or employed in such companies that are thus privatised. All owners, new owners, have concluded contracts, Serbian citizens know that I am now telling the big but sad truth, that for two or three years they will not change their performance, that they will not fire employees and what happened? Indeed, they waited two or three years, none of the employees were fired, they did not change their performance, they shared minimum salaries, they didn't do anything in fact, they didn't even come to those companies, but the point was that they were buying it because of attractive locations; they waited until the deadline of two or three years, as long as the contract provided for them, and during that deadline they changed their performance. They did what they were going to do at the moment of buying these companies, that is, today's companies, and now all the people are out of work, no severance, and that's why we think in this part, these companies that are left behind and not yet privatized, that at least in that part something should be done for the benefit of those people who made these factories, who have left the working century in those factories. For this reason, this amendment is to Article 2 because we think it is unacceptable to tax income based on privatisation, of course, is meant to be the income of employees in the privatisation entity. So we suggest that no amount is taxed in this sense, and that's why we suggested that these 200 euros of yours, it would be nice to write in dinars, in fact, would be constitutionally only to write in dinars, that that part should not be taxed either. You gentlemen have had enough of the Serbian citizens since 2000! You've eaten enough of the people who've left their lives working in their factories, in their businesses! I'll remind you of, say, Popovac cement. You know there's been some criminal procedure when it comes to "Popovac", but you also know, I suppose you're getting information from the field, that this cement store is also being visited by Boris Tadic and Ruzica Djindjic and the question is, indeed, why someone has an interest in going a few years after privatisation in cement, unless they're going to get their share of the revenue that's being made in that cement shop, and by the way, the Paracina citizens can't buy cement in Popovac cement. When they go to buy, they say there's no cement. But also, citizens of Paracinos who live and work in Popovac cement, know that cement is driven to Kosovo and Metohija and that the text is written in the Shiparian language on sacks of cement. So if you see all this and pretend you don't see it, and then you propose such bad laws and try to deceive Serbian citizens with some of your explanations and explanations, my dear colleagues, don't play with Serbian citizens, don't play with the intelligence of Serbian citizens, remember citizens, go back to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28128	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28129	The Honorable Chairman, this amendment, of course, needs to be rejected, and when I listen to this presentation by the representatives of the SRS and their moving concern for the citizens of Serbia, I really wonder what the policy of the SRS is. It's a party miracle. They say something else every day. It cannot be understood exactly what politics is, is your policy what you say today or what you did when you were able to implement that policy in Serbia, when you were in the Serbian government. Is this your policy or is your policy what you're talking about today? When you were able to implement that policy, Serbia had wars, Serbia had inflation. Now you're worried that citizens can't buy cement or I don't know what, and then they couldn't buy bread, because their salary was one mark or one euro today. I'm not lying. Serbian citizens remember that. [[Tossing out of the O.R.: What are you lying about?]] When you call on their memory and you want the citizens of Serbia to remember and remember when the elections come, who said what, who did what when he could, so it will be very easy for them to assess who was doing it in their interest. When you were in government, was your policy what your ministers told you in government, is your policy what the Minister of Information told the press? "Gentlemen, take care of your safety, so nothing will happen to you," Minister Vukic said in 1999. Or, perhaps, as your president said, "A number of journalists simply yearns for a ribbon." Is that your policy? Is it your policy that your president also said, "I'll kill you all like dogs, no one can yell at me" or "I'll take away your passports first, then arrest you" etc. Is that your policy or is your policy a concern for the people? It seems to me that this is the first time, because when you had the chance to implement your policy, that's how you acted. You're very sweet now, but Serbian citizens are not naive.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28130	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's amazing how one amendment has raised the feelings of a coded interest group. The point is: in one of the cabinets, Dinkic, I guess, people have decided that Serbian citizens can get 200 euros per year of internships and points in sales of shares. Moreover, the citizens of Serbia must be kidnapped, must return to the budget, in order for the budget to have a surplus, must in one way or another be deprived of those whose companies have successfully done business, so their value is higher. So 200 euros and a point. What my predecessor said, Serbian citizens remember when the SRS took part in power. They remember Serbian citizens in 1998, 1999, remember 2000, but just to let you know they've been remembering this a lot since 2000. So much has been stolen in this state of Serbia, it's amazing. All you could do through the boulevard privatisations to rob, you robbed. Now it's black under the fingernails, which should be paid to the citizens anyway, and you'd like to tax it. By the way, this bill is full of denials, and it's full of the fact that every dinar, Minister Dinkic wants to take taxes and receive no taxes in the world. But that's already his problem. The elections are coming in and the Serbian citizens will evaluate you and us in the elections, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28132	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came out of the O.R., received Serbian citizens dissatisfied with this kind of authority, dissatisfied with the criminal, corrupt and thieving regime, talking to them, and in this report, they reported that he had reported to some downstairs, took and started reading what they were collecting... To which they collected 30,000 signatures, collecting them for four weeks. They have two signatures in Grocko, and one is invalid, I guarantee. Knowing them well, one is invalid, no doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I have brought here only part of what enters the white book of thieving and crime G17 plus. Look, this is just one smaller part. It's not what someone said somewhere, it's what they stole and what they robbed from Serbian citizens. It doesn't matter much what anybody said. They're mostly quiet, they're being silly, they're pretending they don't know anything, but, God damn it, they're doing good, they know how to work, but for their own pockets and their own trucks, because they can't stick it in their pockets anymore, they can't put it in their trucks. There's no need to read, there's, somewhere here, about 30 criminal charges that, of course, will never be brought to trial until there's a fundamental change in our country. What does the ossion government in Serbia now do, what does the regime want? He got scared of the regime, on his glass feet. The regime would be to ban the opposition, the regime would have had no different opinion, the regime would have all the media as one. Their vice-presidents and ministers would – let's boycott them. These others -- since we can't forbid it, then we'll do something else, whatever comes to mind, just to stay in power. Why there's a campaign against the SRS, that's the key question. Guys, we're not in power here. You, Mr. Mihailovic, are a smart man, an honorable man, are we in power here, are we influencing something here, except that we influence the opinion of Serbian citizens and what we are talking about is what is happening in Serbia? I don't think so. It's been over six years. Then why is the SRS problem? They're talking about hyperinflation. We weren't in power, we were in control of your coalition partners. That's when Voja Seselj went to prison for the third time. When jezda and dafina were, that's when half the party went to jail, when we published the book "What robs the left to know the right." You talk about it all the time. I don't know what you're talking about anymore. For all we did wrong, we paid the political price in the elections, accepted the election results, congratulated the people on his will, and the people got the power he wanted. What we want for you is to respect the people's will, to agree with the people's will. I won't say a word to you, I don't think of it, I don't want to insult you, I just want to tell you – in elections, my friends, nice to hear the voice of the people: wax popul, vox dei, to hear what people are going to say. Here, if you need it, we'll give it to you in Grocko. Simo, go today and find them some ten people who will sign anything, it doesn't matter what or how, just to get at least 10 signatures from Grocka. So whatever it is, whatever it is, it's important that everything is democratic, it's important that people express their will and it's important that people say what they say about who and how they think. Now I want to talk about something more serious. Excuse me, please, Mr. Mikhailovich. Please one more minute, I won't last any longer. I thank you for your extraordinary patience and understanding, Mr. Mihailovich. So, last night, at the address of various state authorities, a depesh arrived from certain centres of power from some other countries, when the elections were most appropriate to them, and they said: we are going to the elections either in September or March. Why? If we go to the elections in September, we go to the radicals can't reach 50%, so the SPS doesn't cross the censorship, only to enter DSS, DSS and national minorities' parties and then say -- we take Kosovo to you in November, when the government is just formed, and then the government isn't guilty, the elections have just been held, so that the new government doesn't collapse. Or the other thing is, let's go then, we're going to get a little bit of the Kosovo solution, so let's say they're radicals. I just want to say that we are not interested in what outside is being sent by various power centres to their depecists, but we are interested in what the citizens of Serbia say. The citizens of Serbia will know how to measure each one of us, and whoever is guilty and who is not guilty. Let the election be as soon as possible, because it is never burning to test the people's will. To save some money for our people and for our citizens, it is terribly important that we go to elections at all levels. If we do not already have a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia to go to elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia, to go to elections for the province's assembly, to go to elections for cities and local self-government in Serbia, in the same way we are going to go to the republican parliamentary elections and there is no great philosophy. In that sense, please continue your work. If you need some kind of help with anything we'd be happy to help you, you don't have to worry at all. As far as we are concerned, we are preparing more things to inform the citizens of Serbia. Soon we will have a promotion of Serbia's new government's economic programme, which is what the new government of Serbia must do for Serbian citizens in the first six months of its government, what it is that the government has to do about the social programme. Don't warn him, Mr. Mihailovic, there's no help, but still the citizens of Serbia heard this. After these promotions, we will start preparing an election campaign all over Serbia. You'll be able to see us in every village, every village and every city. With us, your MPs, you will be able to talk, to make your remarks, to say what it is that we have to change in Serbia, and we will make sure that this non-national regime, that this non-national government, as soon as we get you Serbian citizens off your back.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28134	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Sreto Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28135	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's another amendment where SRS MPs are looking for a tax exemption for Serbian citizens. Article 14a regulates what these are receipts on the basis of which the income tax is paid to citizens, so it is said (in that Article 14a relating to the amendment of the MP Sreta Perić) – the receipt by virtue of the act or the provision of benefits within the meaning of Article 14a of Article 14a of the Law is considered in particular, the use of an official vehicle and other means of transport for private purposes. We can understand that, the desire of the executive authority to provide yourself with some income for the use of the official vehicle for private purposes. However, point 2 states: the use of residential buildings and dwellings owned by the employer or at the disposal of the employer on the basis of leases or any other basis, with the payment of the rent or without the payment of the lease, shall be taken into account, in addition to addressing the housing needs of employees, elected, appointed and appointed persons in accordance with the regulations governing housing and the resolution of housing needs in state authorities and units of territorial autonomy and local self-government, public services and other beneficiaries of budgetary resources. So, if someone wants to rent an apartment as an employer to their employer, make up a lease contract with him, determines the amount of rent, that lease is paid to the owner of the apartment, but that must also be paid to the income tax of the citizens. That's the problem. This amendment was required to add only one part of the text that reads – if the apartment is used without compensation or at a price significantly lower than the market price. So, under these conditions, it's the only way to charge income tax for citizens to use apartments owned by an employer. If this is decided why, say, the state reserves the right to issue its apartments to workers in state authorities and to be exempt from paying taxes, especially since you came to power, since you hired the entire family, since the state became a private family firm, it is not taxed. All of this and every other worker has less rights than employees of state authorities, especially when it comes to famous apartments. I'm just interested in how this government solves the issue of housing needs of government employees, whether the government is pulling it out of some of its special funds or the ministries themselves buying apartments, under which conditions and whether the Public Procurement Act is respected or whether the Government is making its own apartments. I understand when it comes to members of the MUP, I understand when it comes to members of the Serbian Army, I understand that, but what about the apartments used by the officials, what about the apartments when the official was taken care of by the state's apartment in the same city where he works. What about the apartments used by family members, and they're obtained from the state for the assignment of a certain duty. What about those apartments? Are we going to ask for a kind of taxation to be imposed on that too? It should, not this part where the employer takes care of its workers, gives them apartments, builds a lease agreement that is consistent with the market values of that lease, and you still want to tax the worker. That's the biggest problem. This is essentially starting to apply since October 5th. These are the results of the petoctobar revolution. No more like Tadic or Gilas to go out for this pay phone and talk about how the SRS was in power in 1993. She wasn't in power. At that time, the Democratic Party gentlemen were much closer to the then government than the SRS. You all know when the SRS entered the government of the Republic of Serbia and you all know that after NATO bombing, many more objects have been built and repaired than you have done in these six years since you've been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28136	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Finance Committee tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28137	I don't know if I should take this as a compliment that no amendment of mine is adopted by the government or by the Committee, especially when it comes to the laws passed by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of Capital Investments. However, to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, Articles 4 and 5 in this draft law to amend the law, he says -- a reduction in the income tax rate from 14% to 12% was proposed and the introduction of an untaxable amount of 5,000 dinars per month. Is this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a clear message to Serbia that all profits, all receipts slowly but surely, if these remain in power, will be brought to this untaxable part of 5,000 dinars per month, and otherwise at least 60% of Serbian citizens have this much monthly income. How can I live with 5,000 dinars, I don't know, but as Dinkic lives, I know it very well, and not only Dinkic, but also all the other ministers. However, it says - this encourages the development of economic activity, stimulating employment and curbing illegal work. In this way, fiscal redundancies are significantly reduced. Well, cheers. I submitted an amendment asking at least what they suggested in the law to change the percentage by 12% by 10%. I got an explanation saying, "Amendment is not accepted because there is no balanced space to further lower the tax rate at this point. "Well, do balances write people or balances create people? Secondly, what we're going to do is, here's the second budget implementation, in the budget surplus. This means that this ministry has removed much more skin from the back of Serbian citizens than they needed to support the state. It is said further: "We point out that in the surrounding countries, the rate of income tax is higher than 12% (Croatia has 15%, Slovenia 17%), noting that the proposed changes have introduced an untaxable amount of 5,000 dinars, which together with a reduced tax rate gives a fiscal burden of 38% of the OECD method." Here, by chance or on purpose, 39% of what you earn, Mladjan Dinkic takes the budget. So 39% of your profits are so taxed. If your profits are more than 5,000 dinars, you'll have to pay your taxes. By the way, yesterday, one of the MPs of this encrypted interest group asked me if I knew where the Cayman Islands, the Virgin Islands, did I know where Sao Tom and Principe are, I said – I don't know, not because I was weak in geography, but because these islands didn't interest me. But I know very well that at least once a month, so a team from this government led by a leader, of course, is not Kostunica, but one another, going to those exotic islands. There were 4.5 billion dollars in Cyprus, so Mihajlovic found them, so Velja Ilic found them and then stayed in Cyprus, found them Bakic, and stayed in Cyprus, but when Dinkic found them, they no longer stayed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28138	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28139	So, for the public, let me just point to another aspect of the problem that exists in Article 5. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act, and for those who follow the transfer, I must state that this applies to Article 16 of the basic text, therefore, of the applicable Law on Income Taxation of Citizens. So, what did we suggest? We believed at some point that the pretty government was right when he claimed to be achieving epochal results. All this has increased several times, the state has three times as much concern as any government. And in that general concern with too much coalition capacity, even a surplus appeared, a terrible surplus, and according to that surplus, someone in the government boasts that it's probably on the top of the list of the first finance minister, and then a kilometer of empty, and then the ministers go on. Since they are so grateful that they are so successful, that the budget is crowded, that even from luxury, they should return and non-existent debts, i.e. in non-existent amounts, therefore, a numbered debt, we have submitted this amendment and we ask that it simply comply with the bill in the government with the views of the Government, with the budget adopted by the National Assembly. Of course, we also suggested changing the rate to be paid, i.e. the income tax. This is a member of the 16th basic text, and it reads: "The earnings from Articles 13 to 14b. This law is taxed at a rate of 14% on the basis of which it makes the earnings paid or earned. "It is the original text, and the Government proposes a change, and it would read, "Currency from Articles 13 to 14b. This law is taxed at a rate of 12%. "Trust that there really is this surplus, we say, not to exaggerate with that surplus, let it be 10% rate. I don't know why that would be a reason to be bound here when we're being defined. Is it 17%, 14%, 16%, etc. But you know for yourself, these rates are determined on the basis of appropriate correction, based on appropriate analysis, monitoring of the situation, based on testing of certain cases, to reflect this, but there is no argument, except that in our environment the rates are far higher and then we are interested in increasing the number of employees in our country. Just to remind you, last year in the projection was the year we were supposed to import labour, to remind you, in 2001, you were all in power, and all of you were warmly supporting that wing – "we are importing labour in a few years". As far as I can tell, the Romanians can't come now because of the visa problem. No labour imports. However, Lalovic wanted to import something, some Chinese, he thought it was on a piece of imports, that it was rinfuz goods. What's the credit doing? A miracle. You're a miracle of power. Experts. So, Serbian citizens should know, if an amendment to the SRS is adopted, there will be a lower rate of income tax for citizens in the section relating to their salaries and earnings. At a lower rate, the employer is able to separate more from the employee, in the name of what belongs to him, which is called net earnings. On the basis of these funds and the possibility of long-term planning its business policy, each employer is able to develop his job and eventually create a new job, hire new people, win some new programmes and start exporting, start development. If this amendment is not adopted, then Serbian citizens should know that the government of the Republic of Serbia has deliberately handled more than it needs to humiliate citizens, in order to prevent the development of economic activity in the Republic of Serbia, because there is a pathological need in that government to pool funds. Whose funds? The funds from the citizens, the funds from the employers. The government continues with the destruction that took place the moment light shined on Serbia through a burning assembly in downtown Belgrade. That's what Serbian citizens should know. So, this morning, we had a situation where one prank, orchestrated to create a cause for a government representative to leave the National Assembly session. How'd it get started? It was initiated by someone suddenly forgetting what the law on amendments and amendments to the law was, so he accused some of the SRS of proposing zero. Let's suggest that the citizens "draw." That's what he said this morning... The thinker said that. When we caught him in a lie, when we proved to him that it wasn't the Retirement Act, the Labour Act, the vanity couldn't stand, set a man on fire at the door. Citizens of Serbia, remind Mladjan Dinkic that 10 per cent is less than 12 per cent and, if applied on a basis, 10% of the countries will take less and more citizens will remain. Mladjan Dinkic wants as much as possible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He doesn't choose the means, and even at some point, he acts like he's been eating mutineers. He doesn't know what two is, what three is, what zero is. That's what expert knowledge is for! An expert to fool citizens, disabling a political opponent, trying to disabling. But there are some people here who think a little more than you can imagine. So, Serbian citizens, you memorized my message, you know that all my messages are always accurate, accurate. Mladjan Dinkic charges you 2% more because he thinks you live in luxury, and that he and the government need a lot more funds over surpluses, which he has been boasting about for years. Take care, if the next meeting in the National Assembly is not 150 SRS MPs, again these dolls will eventually get together, so they will do something epochal, not 12, but 11.5%, so it may not be 11.5, but in the next stage 11%, to deceive you, to take you, to take you, to humiliate you. That's why we're putting up with the amendments to make it clear who's in the position.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28140	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dejan Mitrovica has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 6. The amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 6. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Mr Dragan Colic has submitted an amendment to Article 6, because this member of the law, amendments and addition of the law has been unsettled, because it is incomprehensible that such a member of the law is proposing to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I mean, here's just a change in amount. So, for internal travel logs in Serbia, the untaxable amount so far has been 1,000 dinars, and now it increases to 1,200 dinars. It's supposed to be an inflation rate, but I don't know what model you were counting on, because it's much bigger than the one that shows up. But let's put that aside. The amendment has been unsettled, because there is no definition of what to do with the taxed part for travel logs abroad. That's what government officials especially like to get around a lot, as our people would say, traveling abroad. We had, before Zoran Shami, the president, this, unfortunately, now-broken assembly of the state community, who was more in the plane and in the air than in the building of a congregation in Nikola Pasic Square, without talking about various delegations. There's no telling where he's going or what he's saying anymore. Those from this mafia "yellow" DS company on the cost of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through a committee that gave them the opportunity to travel abroad, went to make some lobbies against the SRS. I see how well they've gone, more and more citizens turn their backs. In particular, the people have confidence in us, because they know that we are thriftful people, that we are household-oriented people, because in municipalities and cities where Serbian radicals have been in power, the number of travels, journals, representations, various specialized contracts and costs is reduced to the least possible. I'm just going to give you an example of Kragujevci. The budget was adopted last year, a few days ago we had a rebalancing. To look at the case of one city, because at this point I don't know what the exact amount is, millions or hundreds of millions of dinars for travel abroad, because it's for official travel logs, because it's by the ministries. I know here, because I pulled that bill, because we in Kragujevac, as opposition, this Stevanović and this wasteful government, wanted to set an example of us household people to give everything into social care. What does the mayor have to travel with his suite or the president of the city's assembly that goes left-right or these members of the delegations, especially from the DS, and spend money on taxpayers? It is in our town several dozen million dinars, perhaps the budget of a small municipality in Serbia. Now, here's a problem that hasn't been legally arranged for years. I don't know, I think for the first time on an official trip abroad, as then employed in the first job at an external trading firm, then famous in Serbia, that former Yugoslavia, I think in 1987. The same regulation is, Mr Krasic may later come forward to correct me if I am wrong, i.e. the way the daily for the official trip abroad is regulated has been applied since the 1980s. The same one that I first traveled abroad in 1987 and travels day and day. The equivalent, or currency to be applied, you know very well is not the euro, or earlier, it was not the German mark, it was the American dollar. Right? Now first, I want to tell you, since it is always and when it is not necessary and when it is not necessary, it is here that Mr Dragan Colic suggested, in addition to this amount of 1,200 dinars for the country's daily living room, that the journals for the official trip abroad be added. When it comes to your expression of everything and everything in the euro, although we are far from the EU that you promised the citizens in 2000, only to come to power, I must inform you that in the Russian state spirit there is one law on the second reading. So, in the third reading of the law, as it is according to their rules of procedure, it will be adopted on the proposal of the President of the State, Mr Vladimir Putin, and with the obvious consent of all MPs of the Russian State Dumu, that every state official, every deputy in Duma, therefore, is under discussion about the law, which instead of the rubles says the dollar, be sanctioned, newly punished. Because a serious state and state that has such an external trade surplus, which is in such an economic expansion, wants to protect its national currency. That's not the case with you, I'm telling you the representatives of the government, because where you don't have to do the equivalent of the dinar and the euro you're doing it on a tending and deliberate basis, it's like people in their pockets are out of 100, 200, 1,000 euros. People don't have anything in their pockets or owe themselves over these payment cards, and earlier checks. The government has made it clear that it does not accept the amendment of counterpart Dragan Colic because he says it is an earlier regulation, which is probably the regulation that has existed for 20 and more years, a regulated way of official travel abroad, i.e. to stay as state officials abroad. That's not right. And he says a common familiarity. It is not known, perhaps none of you MPs from the government knew there was such a thing. Because, I guess, this Regulation is a sublegal act, to regulate everything by law. Well, if the law regulates what is the untaxable amount for official travel logs in the country, it must also be known about abroad, because everything that is not defined is subject to manipulation. Since I don't have a report, as a folk MP, how much is spent in this assembly for travel abroad, or I don't have as an opposition councilman in a city where I'm the opposition, in that also wasteful government, that's what citizens should know. Wait, people, are these government officials and everyone who travels abroad on a different basis and applies regulations for the level of the daily living, depending on the country to the ground, right, do they pay taxes on that? I don't know how to spell the text of the law and give that argument. All of this must be defined and therefore we have insisted, or colleague Dragan Colic, that it be clearly listed for official travel logs abroad. Because only someone on a geographic map can see any place, any country outside our country's borders. And imagine he's just traveling or going to the state's expense I don't know how many days. Normally, all these people and citizens would like to be this law in force as we propose, that it is clear and that all those who use such privileges, who travel, go, many go and don't know what, and those who go to defend Serbia and our citizens' interests are already working only for their own personal benefit or the benefit of their failed party, so something is in the law. That is why Colic wanted it, and the explanation is not good, because he cannot propose amendments and amendments to the law to appeal to an existing regulation because the regulation is not a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28142	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Hranislav Peric. Here you are, Mr. Peric, your last amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28143	Mr. Vice President, you were a little hasty when my amendment was on the agenda. (President: No, you're a little late. That's why you need to look, not by heart, there's no one here. I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and I have proposed that the following incomes be taxed on workers: transport, jubilee awards, a warm meal and other rewards followed by workers under the contract of employment and I have proposed this in real terms and my amendment has been accepted. So I've submitted the amendment in such a way that it improves the state of workers and that workers can receive some money more, what the state won't charge them tax. I therefore believe that the Committee and the Minister had an understanding (that in this law it was proposed in a small amount) and I thank you for having the understanding and acceptance of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28144	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28145	This is an amendment relating to Article 6. The draft law and this amendment amend the proposed amounts in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. In heading 3, from 3,500 to 5,000, in heading 4, from 18,000 to 25,000 and in heading 5, from 3,500 to 5,000. Let me explain what this is all about, since this is how it can look dry and it doesn't mean anything. The intervention that the Government has made with this bill refers to Article 18 of this text of the Law and refers to the compensation for the transport on an official journey. Now let me not read, this is a long one, there's a whole methodology as determined, let me say, the level of rights and the amount of that fee, but with 3,500 dinars we suggest that it increase to 5,000, a team before it's a business cost, you know. It's a business cost, and it doesn't make any sense when something is determined in some percentage of something, and then it limits some nominal amount, and then we have a situation where people whose main job is to officially travel, to finish jobs for their company, have in one part an untaxable part of the daily, and in the other part tax. However, this is a transport on an official trip, this is something else, it's not a diary, but it's about the use of an official car and transportation, etc. We think this is an unreal amount, and secondly, it's a problem when calculating. You know how to do that, don't you? The government rejected this amendment, she said – if the amendment were to be adopted then tax revenues would be reduced. I don't think it has any meaning at all, because we need to ask a question – and how much would trade or business in companies be increased if they used a different way of taxing on official travel charges? That's one thing. The second item covered by this amendment is solidarity assistance in the event of illness, health rehabilitation or disability of an employee or member of his family. Now that amount is 15,000 dinars, the government proposes it to be 18,000, and we propose it to be 25,000 dinars. That's the part that doesn't pay taxes, so to the extent that tax is not paid. You know, given that many circumstances have changed with us, that even free healthcare isn't free anymore, that security, I don't know, medication, help, etc. It's not free either. Here, I have a neighbor who's been waiting two years in a row to operate on his knee and asking him for 250,000 dinars for surgery, to install someone, I don't know what his name is, something needs to be installed. Em's at age, em's retired, and now they're asking him so much for the surgery. You see for yourself, if by any chance in a working relationship, now I'm a little hypothetically setting this problem up, what would the company do with 18,000 dinars? It would still be some sort of symbolism, a team before if it wanted to help more, all over that, 12% would have been waiting for the tax authority to charge it, over that amount. As probably no one could do anything illegal with artificial fertilizer because they can throw it in a field or in a potty, there might be a third or fourth thing that's dangerous and punishable, but we're all taxed. This last item covered by this amendment refers to gifts to children employed up to 15 years of age for the New Year and Christmas. Now there are 3,000 dinars in the law, the government is proposing that the change be raised to 3,500 dinars per year per child. If this is both work-related and in a very inflexible way, i.e. a very flexible way, depends on the employer, whether or not, eventually if they are allowed to enter the union, then the union, then I don't think it's necessary to cicate that much, and I think it's appropriate to raise that amount from the formulation to 3,500 dinars, to be – up to 5,000 dinars. Of course, the employer can use his discretionary authority to determine each amount to the maximum indicated. I don't think the state is losing much, and it probably means a lot to both parents and children and society, because we, in the end, exist to rebuild, not to close and destroy. It is strange when such amendments are responded to by the Government of the Republic of Serbia whose reasoning is that something which we do not think is appropriate, that it should not stand, says: "Amendment is not accepted because the harmonisation of the growth of nominal amounts of income exempt from tax on earnings, in the way proposed by this amendment, would have negative consequences on the revenues of the budget, especially given that the proposed nominal amount corresponds to the level of expected inflation and the real growth of the gross social product for 2007. In all the arguments regarding these amendments that we refuse to make, you've been lost for one and a half years. You're losing a year. You have no idea we live in 2006. You set that amount according to something you expect will happen January 2007 until 31 December 2007. Guys, what about 2006? Is there anything we can do in 2006? Let me remind you, and just now, when you were talking about this alleged concern, not a slow one, you can say that you're very concerned, etc., it's your right, but I remind you that you're in article 37. The draft amending and supplementing the Law wrote: "This law will apply from 1 January 2007, except for Article 7, which will apply from the date of entry into force of this law and Article 7. 8 and 9, which will apply from 1 September 2006. "Article 6 to which this amendment has been tabled will practically apply from 1 January 2007, and you say in the rejection of the SRS amendment that we are looking for and proposing much more, than the expected growth of the social product and inflation from 1 January 2007 to the end of 2007. Where's 2006? Watch what message is sent from this pay phone by the government. We make benefits, we reduce tax rates, we make it easier, and when it starts, it's not until next year. Why next year? At the same time, there's talk of a fund, a new investment cycle, not to mention these negotiations that you have. Make sure that this Parivodić does not lead you through these negotiations, inform Dinkic, he will mess things up with the EU's. I read a stenogram of what he was saying. Take care, don't be in debt, don't be unreal. It's easy for you to pass unserious regulations that you won't apply from next year. This is inapplicable as suggested. In 2006, you closed it down, you locked it down, you said - inflation will be so, the surplus will be so much, we'll charge so much and so much, what we're giving you is a discount, not counting on what's going on with the new employees, it'll immediately take effect, but everything else you advertise as a big discount will start in 2007. And what's the discount going to be? He will be within the limits of what is expected to happen in 2007. Know that we are now in June 2006 and that what exists in the regulations is now in force. So where you suggested it was 3,500 this year is 3,000. The zeroes gave as a benefit, as a discount, as a discharge, as a relief for the citizen and for the economy. This is like Jack's thing. We'll see what happens. If you're going like that now, then we have to say - we're going to have a daughter. And in 2007, you predicted this would come into effect. Keep in mind, here are the unreal amounts, all these releases that are given here and all the amounts that are somehow determined, I don't enter that nominal amount, have primarily one business, social and state function, and in all countries on the globe of the Earth it is kind of stimulated and tolerated. If something's meant for children, it's seen to be helpful. If something is meant to develop a job, is it just official travel logs, travel expenses, nutrition, transportation at work, etc., and is kind of stimulated. Why? And it should be a function of economic activity. If you don't want to do it that way then say 5% for everything that is received. And then the whole law can come down to two members. Taxing everything as income for citizens with a 5% rate, so since you've caught both water and flood and natural disasters and fire, and "Supprims" and "Bonnie subprims" and "patters" and everything, everything, then you'll reassemble those funds you've been planning. If you're making a difference, you're selectively approaching, you're respecting the economic moment, you're respecting the social moment, the family situation, the need to develop a job, you're doing it much more realistically. You have reportedly increased the nominal amounts, counting what will happen from 1 January 2007 to the end of that year. As if what will continue to be in force is well planned for 2006. Well, not well planned. You break yourself about what inflation will be, how much it will be, as it moves, as costs rise, as prices rise to little. I'm not talking about other aspects that affect the market. We're not talking. But in any case, some cash you've set as a rapper for something, 1 January 2006 and 12 June 2006, is not the same value, there's no same amount of goods. You say -- in 2006, we don't change anything, it's going to start in 2007, and what little we gave, we took the whole of 2007 what's going to happen. Don't underestimate us. If you can be realistic, make sure you're realistic. If you're in no position to be, I'm surprised you didn't resign a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28146	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Markovic, president of the Assembly, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28147	The Rules of Procedure, Rule 225, reads: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the National Assembly section are regularly provided to MPs." After the speaker, one of the MPs discussed, of course, the amendment, mentioned the suspicion that, eventually, the public or MPs do not know exactly how much the MPs of the National Assembly spend on official travel abroad. An informer who, I thank all the MPs, the first National Assembly, of all the institutions, has done, according to the law that this assembly has done, gives detailed information and inside can be seen exact amounts, but I think it should be said here, because of the need to do the work of all the MPs, and what is not seen. So there's the amount that's been spent, as far as it's supposed to be. In this article, the National Assembly saved last year, and in the first six months of this year, as well as in the second, because this institution, whatever those who write occasionally on the media or make statements, and do not read data, talked, this assembly succeeded, through the work of all the responsible MPs, that it had great efficiency and to save funds. And what you also don't see, of course, in the travels that are official, that someone wouldn't think there was a question of position and opposition, of those who have less activity in the Assembly, I don't get into why they traveled much more and they're called opposition representatives. And the president signed it. So it's not correct, probably people who participate much more in everyday work and on all committees didn't arrive. I want the citizens to know, there's no discrimination, most of all by MPs of the opposition party who didn't get the most involved in the work of this assembly. I'm giving information that can't be seen in the Informor. The informant doesn't know the names of the parliamentary groups. When it comes to the first six months of this year, we will have an accurate review, but since June 5th, the decision of this assembly is, in full function, in accordance with Article 60. Constitutional Charters, Serbia took over a whole series of competencies, and in the meantime we will have to see the cost calculation that existed at the level of the National Community Assembly. There's a whole series of extremely unusual costs for large delegations, but we'll check it all out. Of course, future delegations that are drawn up from here and which are proportionate, the representatives of parliamentary groups, in line with this, will travel by law and I am sure that the delegations of this assembly will be as effective as the work of this assembly, and will save. If you're interested in it personally, what also doesn't say, the president of the National Assembly this year has travelled officially, but off the record. It was not spent a single dollar from the budget, because I, by old custom, was the hotel, where the hotel was, paying out of my pocket, and for the rest I was a guest of the next-door parliament. (President: Time.) ) In contrast, there is one exception, I thank again, the responsible MPs of the opposition party who asked that the Assembly should bear the costs of their journey, which was very important because it concerned co-operation with the parliaments that we constantly, above all Russia, had done the same thing and thanked everyone for their responsibility, but it did not cause any additional costs, but rather, it was within the savings that this parliament otherwise realised. Thank you very much. I hope this is enough to let you know. For everything else, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28148	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28149	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, although Mr Markovic, for those who listen carefully, made it clear who it is, but for those who may not know the best relations in our assembly, is not clear enough, so I will say. Mr. Markovic meant the Democratic Party. Mr Markovic thought of those who spent the past eight and a half months in the National Assembly for a total of two hours and 13 minutes. In those two hours and 13 minutes, they earned 39 million, so let Serbian citizens calculate. All other parliamentary groups spend proportionally on the number of their MPs. Probably those who are slightly larger, because they have a larger number from the interior, for those 0.01 or 0.1 slightly more than those who have more from Belgrade, but that's the usual thing. There's something else I wanted to say about these trips and everything else. No one in the National Assembly minds going somewhere and paying for that service trip by the National Assembly. Don't play demagogy, because the President of the Republic gets paid planes when he goes to a football game that we lose with both 10:0 and 15:0, and even when we win, it doesn't matter anyway, and I don't know what it's like and how important it is for the citizens of Serbia, especially when they don't have the bread to eat or when they have very little, when they live hard, and when they're struggling to make ends meet. So it is important that we tell what was done for the citizens of Serbia when someone went somewhere. Is someone, besides that empty story "I'll be an ambassador to the Serbian economy", I'll be the one who doesn't know what, and what did you bring to the citizens of Serbia? Is there any deal, is there any money that the citizens of Serbia have won the team, does there have been any gain because of it here in Serbia, not you personally or any of your closest associates? It's a key issue that the SRS insists on, let's see what the results are. I don't want some going on about the cost of Serbian citizens to see the white world, not because I'm against the white world, but because I'm against spending money on their travels, so they can buy perfumes for women and lovers, to buy whiskey for one or for that, because I don't care. Let them go on their own cost. When I want to go somewhere, I go about my expenses, one way or the other. This isn't about state spending. You have to say about the state cost - what I did for that money, what the state benefited. When we talk within the SRS, one of the basic things, when you go out for a pay phone, when you go to the stands, when you talk to people – what is the message you gave to the citizens, what they can expect from the SRS, which are changes, which is why these citizens will be better off if they vote for you. Also, as one opposition party behaves and what kind of relationship it must have with citizens, such a relationship must be done by state officials. I'll remind you, ladies and gentlemen, some of you remember that here in the National Assembly, I think you remember, too, Mr. Vlaovic. In their term of office in 2002, when 262 were in the National Assembly, instead of 250, at one point 262 raised logs at the National Assembly's cash register, no one had a clue alive, and without those from the DSS that they had thrown out, and then returned, there were 308, with all "citizen" Korićance. So no one alive knew how many MPs there were. Then what did they take to do? The moment we go out for a pay phone and say something, we ask for the adoption of some amendment, in any way, something against what they stand for, something they don't like, and they say, "Oh, with a fist of a hundred, obstruction." It's like it's something illegal. They were here in 1993, when Milosevic rejected them for the coalition, when Djindjic sat with Mira on the cannabete, after which he refused to coalition, they, if you remember, had entered hundreds of kilograms of amendments on the cart and were all "expunged". Is that what happened, Miko? That's what happened. Three thousand amendments each! If Bora Radic said 3,000, he was a good man, he wouldn't lie, it was maybe more than that. So, what happened then? Then it happened that in the last term they said - obstruction. How much does that cost Serbian citizens? One day costs so much and so much, and the one hour you took away from us from those amendments to the Serbian citizens cost so much and so much. I solemnly inform you, I will not be lazy, my passion is mathematics, geography and history. I loved mathematics very much as a child, later something less, and I loved it very much in later high school times and later. I won't be lazy to calculate what it costs us an hour of unhappiness, a day of unhappiness, and a month of failure by the Democratic Party's MPs. Then we'll tell the citizens, and I just want to remind you that no one has ever used expenses in the Serbian Parliament as an argument against their political opponents until they come to power, because it's not done. Tomorrow, when we're in power, we won't blame you for how much expenses you have, like this or what, whether your parties are partly funded or not, since that's understood. We will do it this time to show the citizens of Serbia how dirty they are, how corrupt they are, what they are all able to do against them, and that no responsibility to Serbian citizens feel absolutely no responsibility. We, the respectable citizens of Serbia, when we get out of this room do not leave the Assembly building, but receive delegations, associations of Serbian citizens, we receive people in Serbia who have their own troubles and problems that we are trying to solve by sending letters or some other type of writing to the committees of the Serbian Parliament. These do not enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, unless they are to hold a press conference against the SRS and take a flat-rate, salary and everything else. So, ladies and gentlemen, I've talked about this hypocrisy enough. Mr. Obradovic, I thank you for your patience, I ask you to influence the representatives of your party so that the elections are exchanged as soon as possible, that we say goodbye to this hypocrite.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28150	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28151	When I came here from the clinic where I work, a fellow Member spoke to me and said, "What does this congregation look like?" When I look at the whole set, I almost lost track of it – the bereaved ones. The assembly is just like that, and when I started with what I said, I would like to express my condolences to the current government, and to us, too, to the prospect that exists and that it is and how it is accepted by the citizens of Serbia. To return to our work, as our president of the Assembly says we are working intensively, of course past these premises, which Serbian citizens do not see. I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law in front of the SRS parliamentary group. As you have seen in this debate in Article 6, it is proposed to increase the untaxable amount of fees for the cost of transportation to work, the daily for official travel in the country, the fees for the use of his own car on the official journey, solidarity assistance in case of illness or health rehabilitation to an employee or a member of his family. There are other items proposed by the legislator to change the amount of the non-taxable work. Since I'm a doctor, it makes sense that I've proposed an amendment that goes into the area of health. In fact, the legislator said: if the employer will set aside for the cost of treatment and rehabilitation of an employee or a member of his family, then the tax is released up to 18,000. If he wants to take out more, he'll have to pay his taxes. What do we suggest from the SRS? We propose that Article 6(4) be amended in such a way that point 5) reads "solidar aid for disease, health rehabilitation or disability of an employee or member of his family – up to 25,000 dinars, and with the account of the competent medical institution until the full amount of treatment". What do Serbian radicals suggest? They propose if the employer has the opportunity and the desire to pay in full the cost of treating his employee or family member that the amount should be fully taxed. On the other hand, we say that in that case, a health care facility would have to be guaranteed that this amount was spent for the purposes indicated, by an account that would prove that this money was spent for the right purposes. If it is not a medical institution intervention, if it is the costs of rehabilitation, recovery, we believe that the lower sum of 18,000 should be raised to 25,000 dinars. Why do we feel that this is necessary? Let's start with the situation we live in. Our country and our citizens, you can say, are burdened by two disasters. The first is a demographic disaster. We're disappearing from this space! Every year, 30,000 people are less in the state of Serbia, and that is something that should concern the government, and indeed this parliament. However, no one ever talks about it and no one tries to change the situation. The second disaster, which I am free to prove explicitly, is the health disaster in which our people are. For what? Because mortality and disease are on the rise in these areas and because of the largest share in this increase, our citizens suffer four times more from malignancies than citizens in Europe and on the other hand, which is also affected by cardiovascular diseases that are the number one murderers in all developed countries of the world, even underdeveloped. So we have two disasters! If this is related to the incomes of our citizens, and the average personal income in this country is about 20,000 dinars, then it is again taken into account that about a million citizens are out of work, and all of this is added by the health policies implemented by this government, then it is easy to understand that our proposal is something that is in the domain of social policy, social care for citizens and the population, and someone would say that it might also belong to the realm of philanthropy. We advocate, in fact, that today when the health situation of our people is so severe, when we have a depopulation, then, to get rid of the tax money invested by the employer to treat his employee or member of his family. I said malignancies are on the rise, malignant diseases are observed relatively late, at a terminal stage when treatment was exceptionally expensive either using medications, cytostatics, or operating procedures. Today, we are witnessing in many medical institutions called the so - called “the Holy Spirit. ” non-standard services, which have been introduced in the treatment of our patients and for which our citizens' money has to be specially detached from their pockets. If that's the case, if we know how much medical operations cost, how much the drugs cost, then one measure like this, I don't think it can be at all to the harm of the people, the state, but only for the benefit of the people and the state. In the explanation of why this is being rejected, it is said that gross national income and inflation growth are not in line with these wishes and will then suffer the budget. And what's the opposite if we don't allow treatment for the ill citizens and members of their family, then the citizens will suffer. Now I wonder, who's important, whether the budget or the citizens, but Mladjan Dinkic -- the budget. That tax policy he's running, someone's saying it in a colloquial way, a policy to get as much of it as possible, and I've been thinking about what's in the essence of such behavior, whether it's greed, just to grab as much of it as possible to fill a budget or something else. I understand, by rejecting this proposal, it's something else. That's the second part of politics at work, at least when it comes to tax policy, and that's revenge policy. Many private shop owners will easily explain to you what it looks like. If you don't have one bill and you get caught without a bill, of course, you won't pay the fine and be punished for it, no, you suffer retribution, but what retribution? You close the place down for a certain period of time, it's sometimes a week, sometimes two weeks, you'll be punished dragonically, financially. And then what is it?- I'm sorry. It's revenge!- I'm sorry. It's like during the war, when Hitler said kill a German, we won't look for a killer, we won't chase him, and we won't sanction him, which is what we'll kill yours. It is the government's method of working on financial policy in the part of taking taxes from Serbian citizens. Of course, in order for the health situation to be good, because it's not good, we have one general dissatisfaction of patients, doctors, and for what? So, doctors have now won some sort of chamber, won in illegal and illegal elections, where such an unseen farce was made, with no 10% of doctors saying who would be members of the newly established assembly, criminal and illegal work that was carried out under the company of European standards and traditions. Even in a biochemistry chamber that was invented and nowhere in the world exists, it went to the point where it was voted by hand, without a previous candidate, within a group of 50 people. That's how he fights for laws and for legal institutions in this country. On the other hand, we are witnessing a drain of money from the Health Insurance Fund and what Mr. Vukic says, citizens come to us daily and complain. The other day there were people who were on a transfusion, who, from all the bullying, don't know what to do anymore, they don't know who to turn to, they come out to beat themselves up, if nothing else. Furthermore, in this poor health situation, we are witnessing large investment in large-scale walls, before it was donations, and now these are loans, and these are leaving, in some strange way in the private pockets of privileged people, and what is not to say are foreigners who help to achieve projects in our country. The famous Sofreco company, which led the transfusiological service to collapse, with one reform, led to today's trial by civil servants with voluntary blood donors, led to blood shortages. Our patients in our hospitals can't be surgically treated normally. The famous Sofreco company that won't announce how much money it took, alone, from the alleged donation, and that the big money is at stake, still with the same leadership continues to participate in other projects and that part of the money that is intended for this nation, the sick people of this country continue to be unwittingly robbed. So, let me finish, because there are here and those who say they are left parties, there are those who say they are for solidarity, but I didn't expect Dinkic to accept something like this. The philanthropy is far from him. Solidarity he doesn't know, but I expect the other MPs to imagine a little, because both our parents and our children are sick, and we are getting better ourselves, and how much the drugs cost, as they come to them. This country also takes VAT for medicines, and that's familiar. Not this country, it's clear to me, not to tax children's diapers, not even the means to raise children, but at least when it comes to the most vulnerable category, which are sick people, let's at least make it a little easier for them to have a difficult situation. That the story isn't completely empty, I'm just reminding you, in the final line, of the great study that was done here where 50% of the people said it didn't go to the doctor, because it didn't have any material resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28152	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 6. The amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the President of the Assembly came in in the middle of the debate, sat down on the parliamentary bench and wanted the MPs to inform about something on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I was expecting or will tell us that he realized that this is still pointless and that he is notifying us that he will call parliamentary elections or that, which is also his obligation, as well as the chairman, will inform us where Mladjan Dinkic is. He came in here this morning in this room, tried to deceive the public of Serbia with the most cruel insults, saw it not go after his hand and disappeared. Now I'm asking: that there is no possibility that an extraordinary government session is under way, given that there have been a few hours in the Star Trek, the police are beating the citizens because they are trying to protect their property from some construction mob, which is in close contact with the management of the Starship Community. It's so alarming that it's possible that the government is at an emergency session, and if it is, it would be nice for the MPs to know it, so that we can forgive Dinkic for not having him in this room. The amendment to Article 6 was submitted by a colleague of Radisa Ilic and by a member of 6. The proposal for this law refers to Article 18 of the Basic Law, and I will briefly, for the sake of the public, say what this Article 18 refers to before explaining a concrete amendment. Article 18 says that taxes are not paid on earnings, on the income of an employee on the basis of, so I don't know, public transport costs are paid up to the price of a monthly subscription ticket, or up to the actual cost of transport, if there is no possibility of providing a monthly subscription ticket, it was in the previous text of 1,200 dinars, it is now increased to 1,500 dinars; the country's official travel logs, from the amount, were earlier than 1,000 dinars, are now 1,200 dinars. Then we have, very interesting, point 3) – no income tax is paid, on the income of an employee on the basis of the cost of accommodation on the official journey to the attached account. Is it possible there are no restrictions here? Does the author of this law, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, know how different prices are, for example, hotel accommodation in Serbia and abroad? Is this all that we read where the various government officials and representatives of any agency, according to Dubai, in the most expensive hotels in the world, do this mean that this provision is so without any restrictions because of them, or because of government members? It really looks like that to me. Therefore, you increase the transport fee on official travel, according to the invoices provided, etc., from 3,000 to 3,500 dinars untaxed, solidarity aid in case of illness, health rehabilitation or disability of an employee or member of his family from 15 to 18 000 dinars. Probably not twice the amount of these 18,000 dinars can cover one night's expenses at a luxury hotel, where government officials are staying. That is why you have, Vuk Draskovic, especially, but he is not, as far as the SRS is concerned, counterpart Jovanovic, a government official, but an illegal in the government, since there is no legal basis for him to sit in the government. So, when it comes to solidarity aid in case of illness, health rehabilitation or disability, then the government squeezed, there's no money, with 15 grand increasing the untaxed amount to only 18 grand. Also, when it comes to gifts to children employed up to 15 years of age for the New Year and Christmas from 3 to 3.5 thousand dinars per year and jubilee rewards to employees in accordance with a law governing work of up to 5,000 dinars per year. So it's obvious what the government's intention is and what the government actually takes care of. About Serbia, Serbia's citizens are certainly not leading, and we know it. And in this sense, we have not even submitted an amendment that we are proposing to you now, in some previous members, we have done so, to the government and the congregation majority, to increase these amounts to one or the amount that we think would be appropriate and that could indeed meet the needs of the one to whom this Article 6 applies. It is your business, you and through this law, especially through this member, to show your attitude towards the citizens of Serbia. In the application of the law, everyone who listens to us today and those who don't listen to us will see how bad this is and how much it will affect the standard of citizens, of course in a negative sense. But we have submitted, or a colleague of Radisa Ilic, an amendment to make this government as serious as possible. In the amendment, we said that after these views I have read, a new position should be added, which would be said to be derived from Article 1, paragraphs 1), (4) and (6), which is what I have read, adjusted three months for price increases to slightly according to data published by the Republic's statistical authority. It is really pointless that in the situation in which Serbia is located, given the rate of inflation already reached, we already have double inflation, although Dinkic did not admit it, but it is felt daily, it is felt and seen by citizens daily, and they do not need statistics, nor ministers, nor MPs, no one should see how much inflation is, because it feels good on their pensions, salaries, daily costs, therefore, given your projected inflation, it is inappropriate to confuse in the law these amounts. Of course, the law can be changed, but it is pointless that, because of changing these amounts, you are going to change and supplement the law at any moment, instead of having one position of this member (this also applies to the next Article 7 where we have also proposed the same amendment) this harmonisation would be done, because in this way a longer term solution would be made to align with the tax base. If it is accepted that these amounts of yours are currently, again, for solidarity aid, in case of illness, health rehabilitation or disability, for example, if you estimate that today 18 thousand dinars is enough to be taxed for these purposes, we think that there should be a significantly higher amount, but if you accept that it is the amount that satisfies, I ask you what this amount will mean in a month, in three months, for five months next year. He'll be insulted to death. That is why we think it is totally irresponsible to propose, in this way, this text of the law, that is, to adopt this member. To whom do you throw dust in the eyes, whom Mladjan Dinkic and the Serbian Government make mad? People? It's not like the people are crazy, my people. That's what we keep telling you. Do not propose, gentlemen of the Serbian government and you gentlemen MPs who will pass this law to insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens know perfectly when you cheat on them, how you cheat on them, and they won't forgive you, but we want to influence you to really accept, to understand the well-meaning of our amendments, above all, in relation to the citizens of Serbia. Are you here? Here, but the people from the Stargazers I was just talking about, not because they heard me talking, but they already announced that they came because they had these problems. So our amendment, like the rest of our amendments, is indeed extremely well-intentioned and is not, as someone here said, a moving concern for the citizens of Serbia. In fact, genuine concern for the citizens of Serbia is a sincere concern for the standard of Serbian citizens and, believe it or not, good intentions both towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for you from the congregation majority to accept our amendments so that you Serbian citizens too would appreciate a little more when this law is applied. Because if you do not accept this amendment and not only this amendment but also the next amendment relating to Article 7 where it is provided for: "A pension tax is not paid on a voluntary pension fund, which the applicant suspends and pays out of the employee’s salary – a member of a voluntary pension fund, in accordance with a law governing voluntary pension funds and pension plans, a total of up to 3,000 dinars per month", it is also pointless as this former member, meaning, if you do not accept our amendment and do not say that this amount is adjusted three months for a growth price to a little bit according to the data published by the Republic’s Office for Statistics. I'm deliberately talking about both members because the amendment is identical, the explanation is also identical, and the same goal and the same intention is the SRS when it comes to these two amendments. So if the Serbian government continues to play this way with the citizens, that it has this hypocritical attitude towards the citizens of Serbia, then believe you from this part of the government, one part of the government, will not be helped by the "Winning" agency from the Toplice wedding 11, from Belgrade. It's another message from the citizens of Užica, I told you this morning and I repeat it now. You hired this agency to harass the citizens, to convince them to vote for you. Of course, we don't mind a fair political campaign, but what you're doing, I wouldn't tell you if we didn't really have any more calls from the citizens of Užica. They begged us to ask you not to be disturbed by any more agencies. If you have, brother, activists, go ahead and do party business.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28154	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28155	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 7 relating to Article 21a of the Basic Law, this is about a certain tax exemption, which means now it is about a voluntary pension fund, and the bill says: "No pension tax is paid on a voluntary pension fund that the employer suspends and pays out of the employee’s salary – a member of a voluntary pension fund, in accordance with a law governing voluntary pension funds and pension plans, a total of up to 3,000 dinars per month". National MP Vitomir Milosevic asked in his amendment that the amount not taxed from the proposed 3,000 dinars be replaced by 5,000 dinars. The government, of course, has, like all amendments to the SRS, refused. It explains: "The amendment is not accepted because the harmonisation of the nominal amount of the pension contribution released from paying the income tax to the citizens in the manner proposed by this amendment would have negative consequences on the revenues of budgets and funds, particularly given the new form of tax exemption on earnings, which refers to the reduction of the tax rate and the introduction of an untaxable amount of 5,000 dinars per month. "Now, that would be negative, as it says, the effect on the fill-up of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that of the same budget that the government and ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia have constantly boasted, especially when it comes to the encrypted party, that the budget is in surplus. And under these conditions, it means, if the budget is in surplus, why not raise untaxable amounts, especially when it comes to voluntary pension funds. It is obviously the desire of the finance minister not to actually be a release for the taxpayers of Serbia, but exclusively to be the basis for giving counter-guarantee and task of domestic economy, state-owned enterprises, etc. So this surplus, which you're so boasting about, is not used to reduce tax rates, but only to continue borrowing the state in the form of various counter-guarantees. Now, let's see what it looks like when it comes to voluntary pension funds. So they are founded as a certain kind of stock society. And what happens to the funds that a voluntary pension fund provides. These same funds are placed on the market, on the same market, and the aim of this law, which regulates voluntary pension funds, is, in fact, that not only through banking transactions, not only through the investment funds that you set up, but through voluntary pension funds, our economy comes to a certain capital under more favourable conditions than banks do. On the other hand, someone who pays in that fund, except for this state pension he has, is exercising another right to earn money during his working life. Now there seems to be the biggest problem. When it comes to this government, you prefer to define that these funds you collect from the budget as guarantees to foreign banks rather than to encourage voluntary pension funds that would place funds on the domestic market and thus help the economy, certainly the private and social ones, what is left, and the state. It seems to me that by not accepting this amendment, you are in fact making it easier for banks to work and making it easier for foreign financial organisations that constantly place loans to state authorities, state-owned enterprises, etc. Just one more question to ask – as it affects the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because, on the one hand, every inflow of money that happens in the economy of Serbia means an increase in budget revenues, on a more basis, based on increasing consumption and increasing jobs, etc., which does not happen every time you take loans from foreign banks and financial organisations and you give counter-guarantees. So this is directly in the economy of opening new jobs, expansion of power plants, etc. In this way you can fill the budget, and you're boasting that very quickly, perhaps next month, and if not, in September that we have budget rebalances, so if there are any adverse consequences, you'll be able to remove it in that rebalancing. It seems that the aim of not accepting this amendment is that these international banking organisations, long run by the finance ministry, continue to be protected and continue to earn tax revenues provided by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28156	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28157	Mr. Obradovic, perhaps what I'm about to say is not directly related to this amendment and this article, but I see that you chaired the Finance Committee. It is the second amendment of the Committee to be submitted. It stands down in relation to this amendment to Article 9. You here predict some alignment with the annual growth rate to a little in the calendar year preceding the year in which the coordination is carried out, etc. a very complicated procedure, and then you say in the last position - three months of alignment, it is the apropo of the previous member of which Mrs Radeta explained. As far as this particular member is concerned, it's not just the point of this amendment that we're increasing the amount from three thousand to three and a half thousand dinars. It is about the amount paid by the employer on the salary burden of the employee as part of his participation, on the grounds that he is a member of a voluntary pension fund. This is about a much bigger problem. What's being taxed in a state? What determines the rate of tax? According to economic conditions and material possibilities, and we have another additional principle, and that's all that goes into personal consumption. Profits are considered personal income, something intended for personal consumption. When it moves towards personal consumption, it is subject to tax. Are these amounts allocated from the salary of an employee, his personal participation in a voluntary pension fund, where the employer is only a transmission, accounting, determining and transferring funds to a voluntary pension fund, is that consumption from the employee's point of view? It's not spending. Anything paid out of earnings into a voluntary pension fund must not be subject to the obligation to pay taxes. This only goes into consumption when from a voluntary pension fund, according to the rules applicable in that fund, they return those funds to a citizen who is voluntarily disabled. This is the essential problem of this member, because when the NN employer takes a certain amount of money from a citizen, pays to a voluntary pension fund, the citizen is not in a personal consumption system, but is in a specific savings system, and we should encourage citizens to take care of their own social situation and their social future. I'm not in any way interested in defining any limit here, as we will have in that other law, an absolutely unacceptable solution, to be accepted only if it goes through the employer. I have set up a topic that has nothing to do with some classical policy that is often expressed in the National Assembly. There's a serious problem here. Why would a tax be paid if it was paid more for pension disability insurance? Up to 3,500 is normal, over 3,500 is abnormal? Can he cheat, can he get in the way? He can't, because when a voluntary pension fund starts paying off to that individual, he pays his taxes. You're practically taxing here twice, once because over 3,500 is his monthly premium paid by the contribution, and the second time he comes to use that right he's earned on the basis of membership in a voluntary pension disability fund. There's something wrong with you. I know what this member wanted. This article wanted to introduce order, I don't know, someone's monthly separation of 50,000, 60,000 for membership in a voluntary fund, thus dislocating funds to a place there, and by some other rules it pulls out, so it hides, etc. There are mechanisms in this law too, there are mechanisms in the law on voluntary pension funds. There are mechanisms that need to be protected. I guess we're interested in some kind of capital accumulation, domestic capital. Why is this solution wrong? No good, this isn't a new solution, to be clear, this was just a change, it was a change. However, voluntary pension funds still do not exist, but when it comes to that type of voluntary insurance under the Insurance Act, we had this situation that some employers were acting differently, some employers conditioned employees to be insured. You'll have the same thing here when this starts. Why? Because the employer was pulling out some benefits, if there was an insurance company where all his employees were insured and if he was going through it, then there was some tax exemption there too. I think it was the same thing, I know it was 1,500 once, so the second time it was 3,000 dinars. This is a new piece of work, based on the fact that, in the meantime, a Bill on Voluntary Pension Funds has been passed. I think this is a bad solution and there's no need to tax this, because right now this isn't personal consumption. If one today's employer has singled out 5,000 of the net earnings for a voluntary pension fund, it is not personal consumption at that time of the employee, but rather his participation in voluntary pension insurance. When will it become his consumption? The moment these rules give rise to the right to use those funds and then to pay taxes of 10% or 12%, it doesn't matter what the rate is, but at this point it can't be subject to tax, because it doesn't make sense. In tax regulations, there is no basis for tax thinking and rules that apply. This isn't spending, this is saving. Savings aren't taxed. It's like saving, I can't say it's savings, and when something with saving pulls back, it's known, then it's another procedure, etc. I want, first of all, this discussion to open the problem for the third time, three times already warning this... And this from 3,000 to 3,500, you know, you're the majority, so whatever you want, you decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28158	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. This concludes our morning work. Resume session at 15.05.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28159	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our afternoon work. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Finance on Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure have been submitted to Article 9 of the amendment by the Committee on Finance. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragoljub Simonovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 11a be added after article 11. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dragoljub Simonović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that regulates the introduction of a new member, after Article 11a, to amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, which refers to Article 58 of the applicable Law on Income Tax, which was adopted in April 2001. In chapter IV of the applicable Law which regulates income tax from copyrights, related copyrights and industrial property rights, this chapter regulates ten members of this law subject to taxation, and it is said: "The income from copyright is considered a fee made by the obligor on the basis of these rights," 18 items are cited. I will list just some to know what we are talking about – "written works, speech works, dramatic and dramatic music works, works of art, ceilings, puzzles" etc. Basically, the Law passes through three members, therefore, in Article 52. "incomes from the rights of related copyrights", is considered to be the fee the obligor makes, indicating five parts: "the rights of interpreters, rights of phonogram producers, visions, emissions and databases". Income from industrial property rights is considered to be a fee made by the obligor on the basis of patents, small patents, stamps, models, samples and technical improvements. My amendment, i.e. The amendment of the SRS refers to Article 58 of the applicable Law on the income tax of citizens, which regulates the tax rate. Article 58 of the Basic Law states: "The rate of income tax on copyright and related rights and industrial property rights is 20%". I suggest that this rate decreases to 10%, and for that, there are several reasons. Already in Article 38 of the current Law, there is a rate of income tax on autonomous activity, where it is said to be 10%. In order to improve the efficiency and rationale of monitoring tax rates or to make it easier to apply this tax rate, I believe that equating a rate of 10% is a significant shift in the realisation of this tax base. Also, I have to say that it is necessary, since a great burden on the economy and businesses, relating to the various tax rates and the level of the tax rate, this reduction can be significantly reflected in the quality of the payment of these copyrights, related to the rate I propose, because there is no need to avoid in various ways of taxation through such a high tax rate. I have one more thing to say. While we had a break, I received a call from citizens from the Municipality of Grock, MZ Begaljica, to gather there for the violent behaviour of the president of the municipality and local self-government in the image of Blaža Stojanović, about the construction of a water network, where the road network is being destroyed to build up a water line from F150, a meter of diameters, so people gather and tell me to bring it out here, because there can be certain consequences of defending the people's interests from the violent behaviour of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28161	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP of the SRS, Mr Dragan Zivkov, has submitted an amendment to add item 2 in Article 14 after Article 1 of Article 2 which reads as follows: "point 2) is deleted". Some villains, and there are some of them here, would think, what these radicals want, would only delete such amendments, but if you pay attention to attitude 2 and this explanation given by colleague Dragan Zivkov, you will see that it is necessary to delete this point 2. The Ministry's intervention, i.e. the Government in the position of the 1st member, which is otherwise a member of the 65th Basic Law, was intervened by the Government on the earlier text at point 1) – no income tax on interest on dinar assets based on savings is paid. This is now crossed, correction is given and writes – savings and other deposits by hand or by sight. What was certainly not good and we did not react in this change that was now given, but which was not good in Article 65, which we had previously intervened when it was the basic text of the Law, we Serbian radicals believe that Article 2 should be deleted, which says, not to pay the income tax on interest, not in the first case, but also on the basis of debt securities of value in terms of the regulations governing the paper market of values and other financial instruments whose issuer is the Republic, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government or the National Bank of Serbia. The explanation given by fellow Zivkov to erase this position, we have responded absolutely identically before when the basic text of the Law was passed, that it is not good because all holders who appear on, otherwise completely chaotic, the securities market of value, which also works in our country day and day, would have a kind of monopoly on the capital market. This in one case – means that all those who can broadcast within the meaning of this law of securities of value and other financial instruments, and bear local self-government, or it is the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank, would appear in this sense, this law, if this remains, as rightholders, i.e. collecting interest and income in a monopolistic way, unlike any other who do so, and do not have this release. Then you're going to get into a situation where interested committees are going to want to go to the value paper market, because of this kind of relief, that they're broadcasting, that they're only buying these securities of value, they're not going to buy from someone else. They will be interested only in what is a state, i.e. they are broadcasting municipalities, i.e. the Autonomous Province Assembly, the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank. What about the other paper holders? They appear on the market and you say that it should work, there is also that report from last year when you were still entangled about how in the year, two, three in the European Union, so when they gave you all that review that is the degree of achievement of the conditions and there is one special chapter, that's the report from November of last year that I often quoted to you, their finding is there in Serbia, or earlier to the state community of Serbia-Montenegro, but since they watched us through the prism of the double track, because Solana's intention was years and earlier, he was a war criminal and he wanted to completely break our common national, ethnic, cultural, economic space, and since you started to agree on the principle of double track, i.e. Serbia-Montenegro on the other side, the assessment for us, and so was that it was also a chaotic state. Therefore, we believe that the most just, if you will, would be that all competitors enter the equal race, that Article 2 would be deleted and that no one is in a privileged position. Many were entangled, especially by authorities in certain local self-governments, this is also the case in my town of Kragujevac, they were distracting the public, return property to municipalities and cities, and then the minister himself appears and says it is impossible, there is no basis in the Constitution, and there is no basis for those from the ruling coalition. Whenever it comes to such a thing, it is not only about obtaining much of the capital because of the necessary isolation in the economic sense of municipalities, but it is about the National Bank, the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous Province, but it is pointless to regulate our social relations in such a way and that those who would already want to deal with the trade of paper of value on our stock market, which one day will have to be more orderly, will be in an inferior position compared to all those listed in Article 2. That is why we believe that you should accept this amendment so that in the future, above all, securities markets of value and all interested entities can operate equally on an equal economic basis. That was the basic motive for my colleague Zivkov to submit this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28163	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28164	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax: Articles 21 and 2 to be deleted. The introductory phrase of heading 3 is amended and would read as follows: a new position 3 is added in Article 87 following Article 2. These constant changes in the tax system are causing great dissatisfaction and anxiety for all taxpayers. Apparently, the main objective of amending this law is to address the problem of unemployment in Serbia or, at best, to reduce the grey economy, and to enter into legal flows a far greater number of employees who are working contrary to these legislations. This is nice at first sight, it is nice for ears and it is convenient to use it in some pre-election propaganda, but when it comes to income tax, the effect will not be great, but rather extremely modest. That is why we in the SRS have made our views clear, that neither of the other objectives of this law will be achieved, because we have an extremely low level of investment in Serbia's economy. We have a very badly implemented privatisation process, which has left a large number of workers out of work. We have one concern when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises and very little has been done in that area. What is most important in this law is the government's desire to be shown as concerned about the large number of unemployed coming out of the transition process, but every citizen of Serbia today and that he well knows that the problem of unemployment will not be solved in this way, but only through the development of Serbia's economy. How can we accept, as serious and responsible people, aware of the state's real state of affairs, that these alleged amendments to the Law will lead to improvements in the employment of young people up to 30 years, people with disabilities and people who have lost their jobs of 45 and 50 years without talking about farmers. This all looks like a pre-election campaign for the minister and his party. No wonder the amendment of the Law includes these three categories, because it should be deceived young people, fraud should be made for the unemployed of 45 and 50 years on unemployment records, as well as farmers, or peasants, that by exempting taxes on cadastrian income, they will be far better in the coming period. Speaking of farmers, let me also say this, the minister said that this law would separate the health and pension funds so that farmers could verify health books. This is the biggest scam the minister could make, which concerns farmers. They'll split their pension and health payments, because what people are going to do, people have to verify their books to treat themselves, I just don't know what they're doing to them, like all of us, because almost everything is paid with a certified and untrusted book or without a health book. It's almost the same conditions for everyone, there are few medicines for which no participation is paid. It's also a shame that the price is so-called. raw milk 11 or 12 dinars, and that's what VAT is going on, so what's left for the manufacturer? It is also required by manufacturers to register their households to allegedly receive a milk premium of 3 dinars, which buyers very rarely or almost in no way pay for, but that is what producers have been waiting for for months. I'd still like to keep my income tax exemption. Namely, the minister said farmers would be exempt from the 2006 and 2007 taxes, as were both 2004 and 2005. I don't understand anything here. Namely, all farmers are, like those of Swords where I come from, safe and fair in fulfilling their obligations to the state. And is the state like that to them? Fair and safe or just take it away from them and give nothing back? Our land is agricultural, and all the burden is on farmers, because they were, during the most difficult times, those who worked and fed the whole society, so why shouldn't the state repay them and place them in the same rank as other citizens, not constantly blackmailing them with the prices of wheat, corn, raspberries, pigs and cattle. I'm asking you, just, what's the price of a pig now? Is that how he takes care of farmers? From what I'm told, I think this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28165	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the finance minister has presented this law as an extraordinary law that regulates the reduction of tax bases, how it will be better for citizens, I think it is a matter of skillful manipulation of tax rates and to whom the burden of these tax reliefs will be crossed. In this desire to show that this government is good, as it cares about Serbian citizens, it reduces the tax base when it comes to the collection of income taxes, on the other hand, in order to get another point from Serbian citizens, says those who earn more will have to pay more. In principle, it will pay the citizens and much more than it is now, because by adopting one of these laws, we will significantly reduce the incomes of local self-government. It is reportedly that some transfer funds to overcome these problems will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but this is limited and armed by the end of this year. So local self-government will have to somehow compensate for that loss in their incomes based on profit tax. This will happen in such a way that local self-government, in order to provide the necessary means of functioning, will increase their communal and other taxes; the finance minister will sit in the ministry and smile, he will say, I cut your taxes. It is the local self-government that is to blame, and it can be blamed because only two municipalities have the president of the municipality, so it will be noticed at Serbia's level. It will be the blame of those other local self-governments that will have to be financed in this way, without saying that these two municipalities where their president is from that encrypted party, have special transfer funds that come from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so they don't have to charge any taxes on their territory. When it comes to this law, as well as later the Health and Social Insurance Act, in general the Law on the financing of local self-government, and all this debate in particular, the most, although it looks like a tax relief, to hit citizens of Serbia, will only be charged no more from profit than from some other income. To make things worse, such a width is given to local self-governments that they will be able, without any significant restrictions, to increase the amounts for a particular store required of the municipality and thus the citizens, they will, they will not, even more, pay. It would be better if, instead of giving such a legislative proposal, I agree, therefore, only reducing tax rates on one plan gives a certain improvement to the citizens of Serbia, but let it make tax relief out of its pocket rather than from the pockets of local self-government. That's the problem. You know, he's very skillfully manipulated the public. The story that it reduces taxes is so, but does not reduce its revenues, reduces the revenues of local self-government, other budget revenues, other levels of government, and otherwise the budget of the Republic of Serbia does not fall. Pension funds, health care funds are shrinking, but the budget he has doesn't shrink, he still has the same money and the lack of money, he's going to need local self-government, primarily thinking about them, to make up for it from somewhere. And because of that, it won't be the Minister of Finance's fault, because that was his goal, he is the culprit for everything that's going on, but he will be guilty of local self-government. It's this government's policy and don't get carried away. Who even more seriously reads one of these laws, as it is written, gets the impression that it is in the interests of the citizens, but when the consequences of one such law are considered, it will be seen that there is no improvement for the citizens of Serbia, that the consequences will be greater than they are now, but here, the elegant president of the encrypted party will get out of this story. That is why the MPs of the SRS will talk about such a legislative proposal and explain to the citizens of Serbia what law this is, what finance minister we have and the 3% you have, to reduce to 0.3%. You're acceptable here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28167	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee has submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is made by MP Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the amendment to the Law on Income Tax. I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 which speaks of Article 88 of the Basic Law. In order for that to be a little clearer, I'm going to have to read article 88. – "The basis of the annual income tax of citizens which makes the difference between income for taxation under Article 87(7) of this Act and the personal deductions that are due"... Just to be clear, attitude 7 speaks of taxation of sportsmen's and sports experts' incomes. "Point 1) – for the taxpayer – 40% of the average annual salary per employee paid in the republic in the year for which the tax is determined, according to the data of the Republic's Office in charge of statistics; 2) for the dependent member of the family – 15% of the average annual earnings per employee paid in the Republic in the year for which the tax is determined, according to the data of the Republic's authority responsible for statistics". Furthermore, we have two limiting attitudes in the article that show the proposal's intention to charge the budget enormously. Therefore, the total amount of personal deductions referred to in Article 1 may not exceed 50 % of the tax revenue. Under two, if two or more family members are bonds of annual income taxes to citizens, a deduction to support family members can only be made by one obligor. The amendment of the SRS is for the percentage of the taxpayer to be replaced by a percentage of 50 % and, in point 2, to be replaced by a percentage of 20 % for a supported member of the family. An explanation of why these percentages were proposed should be sought in the fact that sports experts must have paid various taxes during their incomes, so in fact this is the second tax to be paid on this income. We believe that this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28169	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28170	In order for the public to be more precise, Articles 21, 22 and 23 make one whole and in the current Law are Articles 87, 88 and 89. It is, if I may say so, the area of the annual income tax. One member is prescribed to pay for it by natural persons, under which conditions their obligation to pay the tax arises. Article 88 provides for some tax reliefs which are considered and Article 89 regulates the rate at which the income tax is paid on the annual income of citizens. I would ask the MPs to pay attention to this, because a few months ago, they had a problem with these members. When, gentlemen, you filed tax returns and you had to show all your annual incomes you were faced with a problem, that you had to look for some qualified accountant, who would interpret these three members, who would know to fill out that application, and finally, even, that last column that I am calculating his total income tax during the year. Of course, you've all made mistakes. It's not a problem if you've done it yourself, so you've made mistakes, and the professionals have made mistakes when they were filling out that application. Of course, you all later got a solution to the corresponding tax administration towards the place of residence and you saw that the bill was quite complicated. That must say, it's a pretty complicated reckoning. I expected you to simplify, if I may say, the method of reckoning and procedure. What should be the way of the reckoning? All citizen revenues should be recorded practically during the calendar year. It needs to be very precise and clear that the total income that the citizen has achieved has been denied what was at the beginning suffered tax exemption, so on the basis of what remains after the confiscation to determine what kind of net income is, and to make it easier for the individual, for the children, etc. What remains to be taxed with some rate prescribed by law. I think it's one of the simplest forms to show up at the expense of all incomes and pay the tax on that natural person. I'll go back to Article 22, because I think this introduction was necessary, to figure out what it was about. Mr Vukovic has submitted an amendment requiring Articles 21 to delete points 1 and 2, which are the views that prescribe the increase and reduction of total income. Now let me explain to you what this is, very specifically, about. In Article 21(1), point (a) is replaced by the The Law amending and supplementing the Government proposes that intervention be carried out in Article 87(1) in order to replace the quadruple in word - triple. This means that the reverse increase in the possibility of a large number of citizens being taxed on this basis, because they are practically reduced, if I may say so, by that part of the untaxed income. If you've ever had four x's, now you have three x's. I don't think this is necessary at all, because with the existing provision, you've had quite a number of taxpayers on this basis. I have to say, this year was the second year when that tax was charged. Last year it was the same, and this year it was. Of course, I've contacted the tax administrations, they've just been buried with citizens' applications and surprised if it's possible that citizens have that kind of income. Of course, to the total number of citizens it is something in the gaps, but they were also surprised that so many people reported themselves to be subject to this obligation. Let me just remind you, I think about 1,250,000 was the amount, 1,200,000, so some amount was what it was. What you have also done in this member of yours is that change in attitude 2 where for these non-residents, for foreigners, you have reduced from a tenfold to a five-fold. In this way you have increased the number of people who have an obligation to pay taxes on the annual income of citizens in our country. You know, practically, this is the second year these three members apply. I think it's too soon to go with such root changes. You see, here, practically 50 percent of the change has been made, and by 50 percent, it's going to increase the number of taxpayers, and this includes even foreigners. We think it's too early to do this. As far as Mr Jankovic's amendments are concerned, I must say that you have righted this attitude 8 in the first position, although it was not a mistake even when attitude 7 was standing because in the preceding article, attitude 7 and attitude 8 make up one whole and complement each other. This is about these tax exemptions. We suggested that the taxpayer be not 40, but 50 percent. Why? I mean, if you've restricted there from four averages to three averages, then step up here. A team before it's a completely different reckoning in this, the base isn't exactly the same, but also when you apply 40 and 50 percent to that difference over the amount that's not being taxed. It's the same for the children. We suggested 15 to go to 20%. I can accept the government's position not to accept our amendment to Article 21, but then, by this amendment to Article 22, we make a kind of correction to this root change that you've made in Article 87. I think there's room. Here, let me get this straight. The taxpayer now states in the law that 40% of the average annual salary per employee is paid in the Republic in the year in which the tax is established, etc., for a dependent member of the family 15%. We suggest that this first be 50%, and this second is 20%, and of course we call for you to have in mind that the previous article is 87, you're looking for a change where you're going from a quadruple to a triple, where from a ten-fold to a five-fold, you're increasing your very basic, not to yourself, to the ministry, that you don't get me wrong. This law really increases the basics of taxation. If you're already increasing the base of taxation, then give the tax exemption here and admit some of the expenses that a man has that supports a family by the number of household members etc. That's the only way to make sense. Unfortunately, I have to say that the reckoning, the way this reckoning is really complicated and that in that entire system of headings, and even some of the expressions that even experts are a little complicated, you even have that instruction through the Contemporary Administration, and a whole book about how it's done. Even in the IRS, you have a computer program that's quite infallible, if I may say so, quite correctly toss out all these numbers after filling out the application and providing accompanying documentation, in terms of confirmation and some evidence of revenue. I think the government can freely accept these amendments because, I'm not afraid, but I'm simply drawing attention to you that we'll probably be next year, and I think there's some deadline at the end of March, right, for filing applications. In late March, yes. If this goes the way you imagined, then, believe me, we'll have the worst of those reports, and it's possible that some of them might even be symbolic. Why? Because you've fictitiously increased the number of taxpayers. Even if you recognize these benefits and this tax release, you don't need to be afraid of what we have suggested because you are left at the end of what is written in the third position of Article 88. – that all benefits are valid up to 50%. So that's where you have that limit that doesn't allow you to go any further. Why did we take this? Because it's going to increase the number of people who are going to file a tax return because the base has been reduced so that now the number of people who are subject to this obligation increases, and then you have to give some benefit, because this is going to be quite unrealistic. And I think in this form of taxation, you've gone too soon with this intervention. At times, I get the impression that you put it on a log, so you beat the ax with an ax, and what turns out to be. I think you've had to do a little better to assess this because you're suffocating income management, and you know for yourself that for two years it's one job that they've never done before, some new job. Okay, now thanks to the computer this is going faster, but this way you're going to increase the number of taxpayers which in some cases won't be the right way to express the material position and the economic power of an individual as a taxpayer, will not be objective. And let me tell you that many people who mix their private assets in various ways with business assets, where they own, where they work, etc. to be fairly exempt or significantly reduced within the meaning of these three members. I don't think you've taken care of it, you haven't taken care of it, and, well, we don't have to doubt everything right now. I don't think you've been making sure that someone just said it – put it on a tree, it's too beautiful, so what turns out to be. That's not how reforms are done in the financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28171	Thank you. Let's go to the next member. As I understand about this member, no one wants to talk anymore, right? Yeah. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic and then Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28172	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs are likely that these experts for the finance ministry budget will calculate when you adopt, completely recklessly do it or without thinking, to press the key in the day of voting, these amendments and supplement the Law on the income tax of citizens how much more money will be added to the republican budget. And this Article 23, i.e. Article 89 of the basic text of the Law which Mr Spaho requests to be deleted, because it has only changed, not only will it affect the detimulatively all businessmen in our country, but you are ordering this member, because the single rate of income tax on citizens, which was previously prescribed by Article 89, which you are now changing, which has been determined as a percentage of 10%, is now changing, or you are grading on the basis of business, or on the basis of income. And now Minister Dinkic, the one who runs away this morning, didn't know how to read the text of the basic law and the one that changes. So now, if you, missy, tell him not to be confused about this amendment to fellow Spaha, he is not asking for the income tax to be deleted but to delete this proposed amendment to Article 89, so to erase what you have proposed, Article 23, and to remain the article of the 89th basic text of the Law where that rate was of 10%. That's because, I don't know how you came up with that idea, but she's going to come across a lot of resistance with people who will only later and with the first solutions, and following their incomes to figure out what's ahead of them. Such a type of graduation in one country that is completely economical and commercially destroyed is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable. Because the unique rate of income tax per article 89 that you are proposing in another form could be acceptable to everyone, right, because the country has yet to stand up, to rise up and people to work normally, which obviously will not happen under this government. That there are some different circumstances, that there are no lobbys that don't exist tycoons, start with those from DS like Gilas and others, he won't have a problem with paying that tax after this graduation. You know, who knows how much he doesn't even report when he himself boasts that he has five million euros in annual incomes, not capital turnover, but income. But what are you going to do now with an entrepreneur or people who have just thought about it? Here, to knock in a tree, I'm on my way, my job is going, I've got a good profit, and now you're putting it in the new provisions of Article 89. Instead of paying, as it has been so far and as Mr. Suleiman Spaho proposes to remain 10% of the unique rate, you tell him – exactly time to earn less because everything over it we will charge you much more. And then you say, for an amount greater than triple and less than six times a year, that's 10%, so that's what you kept, but if it's over six times the average annual earnings, then it's 15%. You punish that someone who was successful, and whoever is successful will, of course, invest more and more people will be interested in working with him and will in any case have a mass of that capital that he owns and earns the state more concrete benefit of 10%. So, you tell him -- no, you don't do anything because everything that's over 600, let's say, I'm going to round the amount, and that's probably for some companies in millions, not for tycoon Gilas, but for normal businesses in millions of dinars, now you say, that's the amount of six million or six million dollars, one dinar over that, that's what your law says, it's not 10% more than 15%. Now, let's say, a colleague of Arsic, as the owner of a successful family company or another of the Serbian radicals who deal with it, have a long family tradition, or one of you will do it, and it will be easy for you to do damages with the Dinkics in the IRS, precisely to tune in and say – so far, I won't, because I'm going to pay 5% more. Where is a healthy logic, and why is it done in a situation like this when people need to be stimulated? Was that your policy, was it the program and the exposés and the prime minister himself and the later elected finance minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28173	Excuse me, please, just to let the MPs know, so it doesn't take too long, we will continue to work today just until the end of that item that's on the agenda at 1800 hours. Thank you. Go on, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28174	You know, Mr. Markovic, that's no problem to me, you can interrupt me whenever you want, and I'm extremely good at concentration and I know what I'm saying. There's an obvious robbery of people who didn't expect to get such a debilitative law, which in the right sense would say that they were taking a lot more money for what they were trying to earn. Then you go on with that kind of thing and it's impossible to accept it because you didn't even promise, you know, and I'm a good predecessor and a good friend of Mladjan Dinkic, because it was the same financial structure, as God knows what kind of experts came in, this one came into the People's Bank, this one athened from Paris to the aunt, and no longer mentions, just mentioning some of the others around you and your banks, fairies and others, when you were defending new tax rates and new laws that then, in a set of tax laws, came into effect in April 2001, you all advocated it and promoted it as one kind of stimulation for businessmen and citizens and that it was fair. How can this be fair now? No, it's not. You see how hypocritical it was this morning, not this morning, but the misleading, in the very well-known Dinkic's manner, everything he said. Let me just go back to my colleague Simonovic's earlier amendment. It's the same case with him. At least you've been following it all day, so you can take a look. He also asked for the tax rate to be reduced from 20 to 10%, so fellow Markovic asked from 14, you as a reduction to 12, he asked for 10, his amendment to Article 5, all in order to make some balance, given the economic situation and the people's paid power, when it comes to tax rates. This kind of people's yelling and all that you've suggested doesn't apply to anyone, it's going to first tax bonds to feel on their skin, by taking effect on this law, but it's not fair, it's not right and it's not in the function of improving the overall economic situation in our country. That's why you should have accepted, that you have such a feeling and that attitude towards the real state of things, the amendment of fellow Suleiman Spaha. I don't know what this is now, somethingpeter plus two, 53, now you see it, Mr. Markovic, because you've changed from two parts of the time. This is now the time for a new attack. I scored, now another Serbian radical should come. Now you see how you'll deal with those minutes and seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28175	Thank you. I've collected time. I don't expect it's time for another attack, but an explanation for the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, about the same amendment. I figured out the joke, and that's how I answered it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not a problem when the president gathers time, but when he takes away what's usually our business. We're counting on these few minutes, which he mistakenly erased, to leave us with. If the minister were here today, I would ask him how he plans the budget and when he plans the budget. Given that he is not here, please tell him that we would like to know how he plans the budget, because, in an explanation of which he rejects the amendment of MP Suleiman Spaha, he says, "The amendment is not accepted because the abolition of the annual income tax would result in negative effects on the budget, i.e. the reduction of budget revenues above the planned redundancies of the economy. "How did the minister know that we would even discuss this law and possibly adopt it? What would happen to the budget if many MPs came smart and didn't vote for this bill. Did the minister also calculate these increases even after he made the budget at the beginning of the year? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Suleiman Spaho asked only to delete Article 23 of the Bill on Amendment and Supplement to the Law, and Article 23 refers to Article 89, and I will read, not so much for you, because I believe you have read it, I see that you read the bill all day long, I am talking about the MPs of the ruling coalition, so for Serbian citizens, I will read what it says in that article 89. So far, the annual income tax has been paid at 10%, so if you earn 100 of some units, you pay 10%, if you earn 500, again 10%, only that's 50. In the second half of the year, Minister Dinkic will insert this article 23, which says, "The annual income tax on citizens is paid at the rate of 1) for the obligor of Article 87(1) of this law," the four-fold she spoke of by Ms Natasa Jovanovic, conscious of the triple amount of this and then increase the budget. "2) for the debtors of Article 87(2) of this Act, who in the calendar year earned income for taxing according to Article 87(8): - greater than five times and less than eight percent of the average annual earnings - 10%; - through eight percent average earnings - 15%". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, consider, we have two options, or three: that we should not adopt or adopt this amendment law, so that Minister Dinkic continues to take away the skin of Serbian citizens and this little business that he is doing to lead to a begging stick and, thirdly, that the president of the Assembly disbands the Parliament's elections, so since the blood count has changed, I think there will be a very different relationship in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28177	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Thank you for your good wishes. The president of the assembly is calling elections, but he is not disbanding the assembly. I just interrupted Miss Jovanovic's apology to give an important announcement on how we're going to work today, while at the same time for the information that is necessary for your work under article 225. In the meantime, I received a petition from the MPs, not a petition, but a notice with the signatures of MPs who realize that in certain parts of the hall, due to the way air and unclean air are blown, it is not possible to spend much time in this session room. I am obliged to inform you, all of you who have signed this, and for many, everyone who participates in the work, you are aware of how difficult the conditions are, and of course, it will be necessary to organise the work, after a break in the work of the National Assembly, which will be common from 20 July to 20 August, which will take place in different halls for sessions, in this building and in the previous building. This is not possible right now, I apologize to everyone, for a very simple reason, that MPs whose term of office still end jobs, even the former president of the National Assembly comes to work every day, gathers employees, so until that part of the takeover is finished, it is not possible to create adequate working conditions here. In the meantime, I thank everyone who does their job in the conditions we have. Thank you. So much for the notice. Before we move on to the next member, MP Aleksandar Vukic reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for this pay phone because a terrifying campaign against SRS MP Zoran Krasic was led at the national frequency of TV B92. They tried him, because of something they've been running for six years, I guess, to represent as some bad guy they've been working against for abuse of official office, so now it's culminated in everything, I don't know what, that the district attorney transferred to the district attorney for investigative operations. By the way, this district prosecutor, as Krasic could not go, was a very correct and decent man. I don't know his name, to be honest. I went out for this pay phone, Mr. President, because I will not allow, in Serbia I will never again allow a gang of thieves, led by Veran Matic, Mladjan Dinkic, Boris Tadic and other thieves in this Serbia, to lead a hunt against honest and honorable people! That thieving gang says, Krassic, you gave 500,000 dinars here or there. Well, they won't even see you in the office for 500,000. They take half a million euros to say "good afternoon", "how are you", and the rest take everything away. Shame on them, you thief!- I'm sorry. They run such a heist, in the worst possible way, without the right to answer, without anything. Those thieves who robbed this country, I calculated, that Veran Matic robbed the country by more than sevenm euros. This thief will end up behind bars because of thieving and crime, not because of his idea and ideological ops, as well as this thief Mladjan Dinkic, as well as this thief Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas and everyone else! Just keep doing your job. On each of their dirty contributions I will personally go out for this pay phone and ten times repeat the truth to the people, because there will be no worst thieves and the worst scum in Serbia that will persecute honest and honorable people, because they have a toy called "television". Who gave them the right to do it, to use national good, national frequency so they could do it? I can do anything. We're not even going to deny them the national frequency, except they're going to be responsible for crime and thieving. For this crime and thieving, they'll have to end up behind bars! You, not later, Mr. President, ask the MPs of the SRS, only for us to always be careful with our political opponents, because, while a man works here in the National Assembly, all day long, someone has dared to take him out of Djelic's drawer's criminal application. Of that little thief bastard who robbed me, don't interrupt me, who gave Bogoljub Karic the money, who robbed people's money. He returned the money to Bogoljub Karic after the first degree, not the judicial verdicts, and returned to him huge millions, many million euros, to return two million euros to the small one for Tadic's campaign. He's not going to jail, he's not answering!? That's fair!? But you will persecute Zoran Krasic, the most worthy messenger of the people in the people's congregation. He's a thief, and he doesn't have a dog to bite him for. The thieves of one, the worst on the globe of the earth. I'm talking about representatives of the government in Serbia, the most poaching regime we've ever had, all along with this thief, Veran Matic. Well, you won't get away with it, and you won't be able to do it that way anymore. We'll answer in every place. You want to run us out into the streets? Is that what you want, even though we're avoiding it at all costs? You'll have that, too. We will try to protect you and preserve you from the people's wrath, although the thieves, Veran Matic, Mladjan Dinkic and Boris Tadic, did not deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28179	I thank you for your address in behalf of the MP, because it is an obligation. Indeed, you have all the understanding, I really don't know which show it is, and I can't do one way or the authors of the show, but certainly all MPs have to be protected for this pay phone. In that sense, I will intervene every time something at the expense of the MP, no matter what parties, is said. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, extra by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28180	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, even prosecutors who ask behave in accordance with the law, politely. You can't talk about justice in this country, or justice, or the law, or anything else. Why? Because in this country, B92 makes judgments, B92 writes indictments, makes first-degree judgments, makes a strong verdict. If that's not the case, they'll drive you to the grave. They don't think anyone can stand up to them. Yes, we are. These thieves, because they stole property from Serbian citizens, because they robbed money and business premises of Serbian citizens, and not to mention everything else they did against the Serbian state and the Serbian people, these thieves will have to answer for it, along with their political mentors, along with those with whom they think they are very smart and do something successful. Those B92 thieves will have to face justice, all along with Boris Tadic, all along with Mladjan Dinkic. I came out to tell you this, Mr. President, because something like this is being led against Zoran Krasic lately. The D.A. is telling them nicely – you're not going to tear one sentence out of context, and I see that you're only interested in one case and nothing else, but we're going to see the whole context. No, they remembered to link it to something that didn't have a slight connection, absolutely no connection. What's the point? What's in there, Zoran Krasic? Let's see if he's a rich man. He's wearing the cheapest suits here in the National Assembly. (President: Please, on the private life of no MP will I allow to be delivered. Don’t beg me and interrupt me. Don't talk about private stuff, I'll talk about his private stuff, because he won't say it. (President: it is my duty to warn you in that case. I'm going to talk because I don't want a thief taking baths in Hayat's pool every day, like Veran Matic, in Hayat's pool and sauna every day. Citizens of Serbia, you should know that. Every day there's this thief in Hayat's pool and sauna. At an annual level, it costs 3,000 euros, only a pool and a sauna. What are you talking about, Mr. President? (President: I am saying that I do not allow the statement of facts from private life or Mr Krasic, or any other MP. I ask you to complete the hearing under the Rules of Procedure, which you have given, be kind, under Rule 225, important notices to carry out the duties of Members of Parliament. ) See what Zoran Krasic has, and look at Veran Matic, from pool to sauna, only in Hayat. They're not ashamed. God, this one's honest, and this one's not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28181	Mr. Wolfie, you know damn well I'm not even watching TV shows, so I don't need that kind of persuasion, or taking care of other people's lives. The information you provide under article 225 as your political assessment for informing the MPs of a television screen, as you have informed us, and I have no reason not to accept it, is campaigning with the incorrect data of a national MP. I understand you very well, be kind and complete the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28182	So, this thief who doesn't pop out of Hayat's sauna and pool, even though once their sauna broke down, went to Intercontinental and suffered for seven days, that thief Veran Matic to accuse such honest and honest people – let the Serbian citizens look at the difference between Krasic and him, let them see what Krasic is driving, and let them see where Krasic lives and where he lives. Krasic finished a school, unlike him, which he saw only on the postcard and in the recommended letter. Mr. President, I'm not asking you to do anything, I just wanted to point this out to the citizens of Serbia about what this television station is doing, and I wanted to point out to those who think they can do anything, to those who think everything is allowed against people, to destroy their lives, and nobody to mention anything to them, that they're wrong. We will defend Zoran Krasic, we will defend Serbia from such, we will defend the Serb people from such, and the thieves will end up in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28183	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28184	Article 25. The bill is a kind of complement, and the government proposes that a member of 101 be added after article 101. That's a big member, he's got a lot of attitudes, and Mr. Lalic asked for a new position to be added after Article 5. Of course, the very text of the amendment shows that it does not essentially change the essence of what the Government has proposed, but rather requires the harmonisation of the nominal amounts set out in paragraphs 1, 3, 4 and 5 of this article. I have to go back to what was nice to the government in the SRS amendments, what they called indexation and what the Finance Committee somehow accepted, and otherwise formulated it. I think it's the wrong way of formulating, and again, I have to draw attention to the fact that there's a problem with this article that I was talking about this morning, which is what the proposer planned for this law to start applying as of 1 January 2007 and again in 2006 is lost in calculating the basics and anything. We ask by amendment that the coordination be carried out three months and that the price rises to a little bit according to the data published by the Republic's statistical authority. In all parts of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to this Act where nominal amounts appear, the sums numbered and, if they apply to some value, some monetary income, the mechanism must be established as it states that the current adjustments are being made. So, there must be a formula for the current harmonisation of these amounts, because that amount, regardless of what type of tax base it is, is not the same as on 1 January of one year, 30 June and 31 December of that year. You admit that that amount is not the same. When you go with some economic policy for a year, you try to give information about expected inflation, and sometimes it happens, it's one projection. Some times inflation is actually higher than that projected, some times lower than that projected, but in any case, a monthly or three-month period that monitors price growth is a little more objective criteria for determining some of the values around which something is happening and it serves some calculations. I therefore draw attention to the MPs, we did not want to report on the amendment of the Finance Committee, because the Committee essentially accepted our idea and our initiative. The government had some understanding, at least as regards the principle debate on this type of value determination, but what was written in the second amendment of the Finance Committee and in the ninth amendment, this amendment relating to the new Article 35a is touched by Article 25. You've done a very complicated procedure. It's much better to take a shorter period after all. We've suggested that always synchronization be done for three months. Since this is yet one continent, I must draw your attention that it is not a good solution to the Finance Committee, where it is said that the harmonised dinar amounts set out in Article 1 of this article are announced by the Government. For much more serious matters in these 220 laws, the extent of the National Assembly's adoption, much greater powers have been passed over to the ministries, and here you're in charge of something that is a finding of something that exists in statistics and exists with the competent authority. It's probably a good enough solution that the minister simply finds out what the statistics are registering, so the government doesn't have to meet to find out, but this shows that there's no system there. Such a insignificant thing is given to the government, and such large things are given into the power of the ministries. This must be meant to be. We suggest that you accept all of these amendments where we have predicted that border amounts are harmonised every three months depending on the evolution of prices for a little while in a three-month period. You won't do anything wrong. You'll only create one consistent system that will be known in advance, there's no uncertainty. I have to say that in many of our financial regulations, tax regulations, those solutions produced very good results, and even in times of terrible inflation, even then it was possible to answer this technical question. It is no harm to accept this concept of harmonisation, as you like to say indexation, because I simply cannot understand when it is necessary to establish and prescribe some indexation in relation to what allows the country to meet its obligations, then there are very precise formulations in our draft laws. When it is necessary to take into account market developments, price increases to a small extent in terms of individual rights, then the state allegedly does not know how to coordinate and how indexation is done. Don't do that, no problem is to accept all of our amendments that regulate alignment, because one known system and technical and each other is obtained, and when that system is given for a while, then it is possible to make some finer correction, depending on some movement on the market and the obvious things that are observed in the application of the law, so why not in the principle of fairness. It can be wrong here, and that's where we have to be aware. There's no computer that can prescribe this and calculate it. Mistakes are possible, but let's show that we want to make one system of reckoning, make a system that will be known to everyone. And now to pass the regulation, it will take effect in a short period of time, it will start to apply in 2007 and everything we asked for, you wrote – amendments are not accepted, because in some way the budget is being threatened. What budget do you think, for 2006, for 2008, and then we have amendments to the Finance Committee that also talk about some harmonisation, so they say it comes into force on 1 January 2008. If you're going by that logic of the matter to bring one amendment to the Finance Committee, to have the government agree, the majority of votes for one such amendment, I'm sorry, please, why are we making a regulation. I'm going to use two more minutes to explain, since I wasn't present when one amendment was on the agenda, and it's about something spectacularly announced, and about the young and old and the benefits that the employer receives, and he receives persons under the age of 30 as trainees or even under 30 and older at all, I don't know if he was 50 or something like that in the bill. We're in a principle debate, and that's what we wanted with this amendment that I've submitted to correct, we need to stimulate the employment of everyone, but it's stable employment. So, we support that part of the provision, he obviously prevents some abuse by the employer, he legitimateizes himself, he receives so much and so much, so if he can for 15 or 20 days, then he can return to what was or for a year to return. No, but to be bound by one longer term and by number to fulfil its obligation, so by the number of employees, and here I get the impression that the obligation meets the name and last name of the new person, and I don't think that's necessary. At the very least, we should give benefits to anyone who hires new workers, no matter how many years that worker has, because we have a completely different process in reality. We actually have as a rule to lose a job, that's the rule. How do you lose your job? Privatization ends, Chada, Baby, Honey throws it out of work, hairdressing workshops are cafes for these blowers, etc. Here, now we hear that the PKK is privatizing, the stock is being sold, and there's going to be people out of work again, about 800 people getting kicked out of work. Please, we have to say that this process is in place, that kind of transition is with us. It's going into some kind of privatisation, you don't know the purpose of privatisation, you don't know the purpose of privatisation. What's the point? To provide funds to fill the budget, but no, you have a surplus, to fill pension funds, is neither your goal, to just implement the property structure, or change, that it is not social, but persons A, B, C, D, etc. And then you could go with this insider that was. But not here. Here is the purpose of privatization to only certain persons acquire property on basic assets. Where's the employee, where's the worker? He's gone. He's lost. And then transition funds, then counselling, experts, experts, end up with burgers in the Assembly, etc. Or somewhere else. And we made a deal. Is tomorrow better? Did someone get a job? No, there's no serious government policy that cares about the interests, the resources of this country. I have to criticise it, and whether you like it or not, of course I'm interested, and if someone is going to attack me, each of you should do your own job, so in that conflict of contradiction, we're going to offer ourselves to the citizens and see which side is right and which side is what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28185	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, on Article 26 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Finance. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Finance on Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 29a be added after Article 29. and 29b. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28186	Mr. President, there will probably be little time left, and you can spend ours, although it doesn't count when you speak from the chair. I really didn't understand what you said half an hour ago, what work on shifts, because I'm more than a decade old MP, which is federal, which is republican, and we've never done in shifts, not by any jokes, that we don't know it's a congregation hall, so if you'd be kind, because I had the impression that something interrupted you at the moment, so that you eventually cut it short, but if you could, give us a written notice about your intentions as to what it would look like. As for the amendment submitted by fellow Milajic, so the cold air blows, it is true that Radeta's colleague, but that is no reason why I do not sympathise with farmers who are now on the field at 35 degrees or with miners who are digging. No one forced us to do this job, it's a free choice, and it's a great honor to represent the citizens, because when citizens vote for one political party and give you the opportunity, and this party trusts you, to represent them here, it's a great obligation, a great honor, above all, and the responsibility that everyone must have as such. As for the amendment of my colleague Milajić, this is about the range of penalties for non-registering companies in line with the law's entry into force until a certain date, it seems to me by November 2006, and we have proposed, or that Milajić, that the fine go within the range, not from 100,000 dinars for legal persons, but from 50,000 to millions of dinars. Because we believe that this is more appropriate because of the economic situation in which our business entities are located and because of the fact that the previous laws to which the proposal is called, i.e. the Government and the Ministry of Explanation for the non-acceptation of this amendment, the Tax Procedure Act, infringements and the Tax Administration, were also, in our opinion, rigorous in this regard in terms of these fines, i.e. the range from the lowest to the highest penalty. We reacted to the amendments back then. Then the lawmaker would have to know when he's considering amendments to the SRS. What's right for you is some previous law, of course it has its own application in our legislative system, but we had the right and then to submit amendments, they weren't accepted, and we consistently stick to our position when it comes to this. It began thus with laws on violations of Vladan Batic in 2001, from some minimum fines of 5,000 dinars to 50,000 dinars. As time went on in the budget, so to clog various budget items, i.e. to give hands and hats, earlier to Covic, now those from this "yellow" mafia People's Office. Now do the math. Always take those odds. How much did you give for the agencies? The Agency for Promotion and Exports, the ski resort agency, where these are adopted now, these new board members, and this one, and she, she no longer knows, so for bankruptcy. If you add all that up, it's billions. And you now say in your explanation – if the amendment of counterpart Vojislav Milajic would be accepted, there would be less revenue in the budget. Since you're getting so messed up with the state budget, what are you gonna do with all those big ballads on the backs of the people and the state budget? Find a method to save. We would never do that, I think of us Serbian radicals, nor would we have such a concept of income and expenditure planning, nor could we be able to show up in the middle of the financial year and say – well, it's not enough for me, I have to give Gilas, look, look, condition, blackmail, now we need to talk together and so what and how, how they're going to attack the SRS, and now there's no money, stuck for him, huge millions, hundreds for the People's Office, for one agency, for another, for the third... And then it's the easiest way to get across the back of taxpayers. Which he didn't plan as nicely as any host, a normal man, a minister, to go to Hayat in a sauna with gold cards. You are rattling, Mr Markovic, Veran Matic, but as for individual MPs, including those and colleagues Krasic and all SRS MPs, they are on their way to the Tgra victory 3 in Zemun, where the centre of our party passed by Hayat, but did not even stop for cookies there. You are tossing to me the mention of Veran Matic and the sauna and these there privileges and blessings in which this man, in what age, enjoys all these privileges on the coat of arms of the people and through the robbery. As far as the range of this minimum is concerned, you should always bear in mind that no one is so morbid and irresponsible, only when it comes to some economic manipulators and speculators. That's what this Gilas is to you. That's all those companies holding. The other day, I mentioned to you this prominent member of the DS, who bought the PIC Topola company and ruined it. And yet there was nothing left of that song, "The vineyards went down to Topola," there was nothing, because it all healed into weeds. He bought this owner of Germany, I can't remember right now, his last name is Popov, a member of DS, a company, workers in the general strike, not working, some ready to strike hunger, he doesn't care, he doesn't care who chases him, he doesn't run the procedure, he doesn't challenge the privatisation process, people on the street. Now such a manipulant, as you had before, Janjusevic and Kolesar and Hamovic and Lazarevic, will never get from the tax administration a solution to the offence, or punishment. And who's going to get it? Some normal businessman, some man who might have missed or someone who was in charge of his company to do the job and didn't respect the deadline. Now that that's the case, I assume that the competent state authority must have in mind, i.e. by taking into account the situation of the matter before it imposes a sentence and prescribes a solution from minimal to maximum, why it happened and that it doesn't need to rip people's skin out, but then let it be instead of 100,000 50,000. Calculate a little on the basis of revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget from value added tax, as counterpart Markovic would say, half come to Velija, how much you have included this year and how much has passed. It's a key problem. I expect, to be honest, if you manage to survive another few months in power, that somewhere in the last decade of this financial year Dinkic will appear with some more tax changes and additions. I don't know which, but surely, because the value added tax effect, compared to last year 2005, when it was introduced, is not the same and you know it well. You know, the Minister knows, too, and that's why you're forced to fill the budget register by filling up in the middle of the time, in the weather, in the season, and in half of the financial year, to change the laws, to make you more involved in the budget. I'm not saying that because this particular member and this penalty diameter, that's what I'm going to do as a clagworth to look the truth in the eye and see how far that budgetary policy takes us, but everyone looked up to you, so they resort to it. He won't rebalance the budget because he showed up there and boasted about it, which is one big nonsense and he got pucks for it and from the IMF. He was told that he did not have to boast in such a way, for it is not commendable in any way. You should have neither excess nor deficit, but to have balanced budget items, and that all those aspects of the functioning of society, especially the most endangered layers, are restless, such as people who expect social assistance, who expect pensions, other givings, children, pensioners, agricultural pensioners, etc. Now, you can see that this is one interpretation in the middle of the financial year, that you're going to see how and what happens, and that's why we have this, and I'm not going to answer until the end, there's one more amendment to this law -- the income tax of the citizens. But this policy is not good, tax or budget policy, which is run by the minister, who's not here all day because he knew he'd have to answer all this. He doesn't have the arguments, he just knows he's slandering and he's lying, he's cheating on the public, and that's what citizens see very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28187	About the same amendment, please, you have five more minutes at your disposal. The People's MP, Alexander Wuccic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, this was just what I was talking about, I have one correction to what Miss Jovanovic was talking about. It's not a correction, it's more complemented, to be more honest. Right, we have one problem with B92, and that's that we can't affect their policy, because we're not going to the sauna, to the pool of the Hotel Hayat. You know, we don't have that money. This poor, miserable, unhappy, while the people suffer and suffer, he goes to the pool every day and to the sauna of the Hotel Hayat, to feel some beauty of life from all the mere poor. Since various jobs are being arranged there, and there are those in the pool who need to wash their biography, various directors of socialist enterprises and former ministers, those who paid between two and five million euros to Zoran Djindjic, and I don't even know what it is, those from the DS today who are giving us the sense of how and how it should be done, there's a full summit there. The pool and sauna at the Hotel Hayat, which costs 3,000 euros per year, is there an entire summit, but they are not inconsistencies. They're all classy. There, when one day there is no best man, the UBPOK once in, everything to arrest, won't make a mistake. It's one thing and quite certain. If they say it's not true, I'll name the people of the DS to tell you who regularly come to the pool, the sauna of the Hotel Hayat. That's what Mom and Dad gave them money from their pay so they wouldn't show up in the assembly and spend time there. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come up with one more important thing than this to say, since Serbian citizens can recognize it. What has been happening in recent days against Zoran Krasic, and especially today, nothing is caused, not even at an anti-radical agency like Beta, there is no news of anything, self-initiatively making a hack on that TV house against Zoran Krasic. I will personally consider Veran Matic, Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic responsible for anything that happens to Zoran Krasic or, if God forbid, happen to him in the coming period. This kind of hack and harangus run by this thief, while we ordinary people bathe as much as we do in a regular bathtub, some who have less in a laurel, some only use a sink, they have no other, so he has a big pool at the Hijat Hotel and a big sauna without telling you about millions of euros. During that time, he runs a heist and a harangu against an honest man. Against one of the best messengers, you will all agree on whatever side you sit on and from whatever party you are, one of the most professional messengers. Chuck, what do you call this guy who's been missing all day, what did he come in his shirt this morning? Even this Dinkic, meanwhile, said he could listen and believe in the expertise of only Mr Krasic. So is it necessary to lead the hunt against Krasic? Well, who's going to lead than the Reverend Veran Matic?- I'm sorry. He called with his phone from the pool of the Hotel Hayat, and just as it warmed up, it was so hot that yesterday the phones of the G17 when they were put on the sun to get hot and the phones were so hot from the sauna, and he called and said, "Come on, attack Krasic." Aah!- I'm sorry. Well, if anything happens to Zoran Krasic, I will personally consider it responsible for Veran Matic, Mladjan Dinkic and Boris Tadic. This last one, because it represents someone who is "capo di tuti capi" to all thieves and criminals in Serbia. One more thing, Mr. President, do you know that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we do not call on that, do you know that one of the fundamental human freedoms, the fundamental human right guaranteed in all civilized countries, is that the MP cannot be brought to justice and that he cannot bear responsibility for the word spoken from the assembly speaker, except for the responsibility he has towards the citizens of Serbia? And that's what you're looking for? No problem, we're different from you in a lot of things, we're not going to lynch in the streets, we're not going to beat you in the streets, we're not going to beat you in the streets. But the more you provoke, the more you want to pursue those who think differently and who oppose you, the more difficult and unexplainable the situation, the more unexplainable in that we have no choice. We don't want to do it again, and I'm telling you again, no matter how pointless this sounds or pleonism that I've said. And once again we're telling you, don't do it, don't do it because in the end you're going to beg us to get people off the street. Don't do this because by doing this, you will try to cause bloodshed in Serbia through your small, dirty, thief, like Veran Matic and others!- I'm sorry. We'll make sure he doesn't, so he never does. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mr. President, but one thing must be clear to you. With October 5th, persecution, lynching, human harassment ended once and for all. Never again. (President: Please, no throwing.) So what if she doesn't throw it away, Mr. President, so let her throw it away, she has the right to throw it to me because I asked her to throw it to me, because she gave me important information. (President: Please, the Rules of Procedure do not distinguish whether you are getting information or anything else. The Rules of Procedure obliges the President to prevent the discard. Be nice, finish up. All right, here, punish her. Here, Mr. President, let me tell you, why don't you tell us where Mladjan Dinkic is? Why don't you tell us why you're distracting the MPs here? What are you doing, Mr. President, when Mladjan Dinkic runs some election campaign in Raznja? This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, here are the MPs, what are you doing, Mr. President of the National Assembly?- I'm sorry. (President: You will receive a notice as soon as you are finished, officially. What kind of notice am I going to get? This thief calls there from a pool in Hayat, from a sauna in Hayat, and this one in Raznj, somewhere in an election campaign, and today has a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its law. Now, let me get this over with, and then you give me any notice you want, it was important for the citizens to hear the notice. I guess you don't think there's anyone who can stand up to your force and your haughtiness. (President: Please turn off your cell phones.) Be kind enough to finish up. Please turn off the cell phone that stayed with the MP or answer it, they're both variants. ) It's Veran Matic from the sauna, not in the pool. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, what you imagine is that you can arrest whoever you want, lynch and beat whoever you want, do whatever you want and how you want through your dirty TV and newspaper, out of all three things you can only do this third thing - lie over your dirty TV and newspaper. Forget the first and forget the second, and I'm sure, no matter what lies, no matter what, the truth will win. And you'll have to make sure of that soon, because the elections can't be delayed until infinity, and they won't save you from the sauna or from the pool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28189	Thank you. So, yes, I'm obliged to give notice. First, of course, I know about a member of the Constitution, and I explicitly respect it, and I never in any way in relation to what MPs are saying behind the pay phone, except when it is necessary to give a warning. Be kind, except when I can't and you know it very well, the President of the Assembly can't in any way prevent anything from being wrong on television screens, no matter what television is. After all, you have my personal example, no matter how many times. So I think from every parliamentary party in this assembly that individuals felt it on their skin, but it's not possible, only what I'm saying is I don't comment on what I'm not looking at. You won't be angry, sometimes I'm surprised at everyone who has the nerve to watch at a time when one part of people sees one kind of television they're a little masochistic looking at another, I mean first of all at the world championship, of course. But I don't comment on it as I don't comment on the fact that I'm equally concerned about the data that I hear from time to time about where anyone baths, and even more about the data that doesn't bathe at all. So both are expressions of concern, but it can't be run by the Assembly, so I would never want to influence the comments, and, yes, with the permission of the president of the Assembly, I'll check that the exact information that has been received and reported. Please, just in the context of what we just said, I can hear the information, but I can't guarantee its accuracy, not insulting anyone, until I get it officially. Compared to the assembly president's permission, the minister is not present right now, and I'm going to make sure that the information you gave is correct. Here, now, I'll take your word for it's a single sentence, not simply extended, is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28190	One simply expanded. So it's true that it's there, but it's not the problem, it's the problem that's going to come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28191	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic to article 33. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Anybody want a word? No, thank you. On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 35a be added after Article 35a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. I realized that you had just explained that the member who submitted the Committee was only partially correcting, so did you explain? But it's not him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28192	Mr. Markovic, you weren't this morning when we discussed these amendments. We didn't report for the amendment of the Finance Committee. (President: Please, Mr. Krasic, since she is so praised for your account, I beg a little tolerance, and as far as everyone is concerned, excuse me, please. Now it's been asked, I keep forgetting. There won't be a session on Friday, thank you very much, so you're planning your time. Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mr. Krassic. Here's the thing. The Finance Committee has tried to accept our initiative, our idea of harmonising these amounts and has done so with several of its amendments. Now I don't know, it doesn't say anything here whether the government is in agreement with these amendments to the Finance Committee. It probably is, but that's what I want to draw attention to. You see, the 35a member who proposes the Finance Committee is contrary to the full explanation of this bill. Here, to read what the Finance Committee is proposing, it is in the part where the transitional and final provisions of this law are, it says: "The first harmonisation of the dinar amounts, according to Article 2a of this law, will be carried out in January 2008. Our idea when we submitted amendments wasn't that these amounts were, and now let me remind you that this is also about amounts of 3,000, 3,500, 5,000, etc. It is not possible to believe that in 2008 it will be a criterion based on which to determine the material position and economic situation of an individual. Even on the condition that we have an inflation of 1% on the annual level, something like this can't be proposed again, that the coordination takes place from 1 January 2008. How do you coordinate? "Extremely from the position of the 1st member, first harmonisation of the dinar amounts referred to in Articles 4 and 25." (and Article 4 refers to earnings, Article 25 is what I said earlier) "will be implemented in January 2007, for the period from the first day of the next month from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2006. The harmonised dinar amounts set out in item 2 of this article shall be applied from the first day of next month following the publication of the quiet." Please, you've forgotten about Article 15a, it's covered, but you've forgotten about other provisions, what's not included, 5,000 dinars within profit, you've forgotten about other provisions and Articles 2 and 5 and Article 6, 7, 8. etc. What can be concluded on the basis of this kind of game? It can be concluded that, for the public, it sounds like something has been done, some tax rates have been reduced, some amounts covered by tax exemptions have been raised, but this will come into effect on 1 January 2007, and the harmonisation only since 1 January 2008, and in 2006, it will happen, the change of this law will only take place in terms of employment for 2006 and 2007. Article 34 – is not established and does not pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry, we agree. Article 35. - "The estrangement and payment of the annual income tax of citizens achieved in 2006 is subject to the provisions of this law." It's thought of alterations and additions, it's meant to decrease from 4 to 3, from 10 to 5 and determine two tax rates, depending on the range of total revenues over the year. Practically, a major fiscal reform has come down to a list of wishes, two or three concrete things, and everything else with a delayed fact, and even a delayed indexation, and I think now is the time for the government, and the Ministry, the Finance Committee and all the parliamentary groups that make the government expensive, to see if that's what needs to be changed in this law as proposed, whether it can mean something like this mixed up and whether, by any chance, it's another fog that's being thrown to the citizens, a big announcement. Just to remind you, so many things are spectacularly announced here, but in the first date of the law in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" and the first day of law enforcement, there is a terrible collision between the government of the Republic of Slovenia and reality. Of course, reality always beats good wishes. That's why I'm calling on the government to review this thing again, because there's really nothing rational about you explaining this idea you're carrying out. At the time of the surplus, you're doing this. I could conclude that you're announcing a surplus for 2007, but I'm afraid to say, because I don't know what a surplus means to you. The surplus isn't in reverse, it's in some kind of disturbed proportion. The bigger the surplus here, the bigger the tax rates. The bigger the surplus, the bigger the commitment for the citizens. That should be the other way around. If there is so much money, because the new value added tax law did something of its own, gave some positive results for the budget and only for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then you have to give in elsewhere, because it cannot be supported. There are groups, categories of citizens who can't handle this. I don't want to talk about who calls everybody on the phone, but people can't handle it. Some times I come to the conclusion that economic policy makers in Serbia don't walk the streets, as if they're not going around these cities. I guess in some stands you hear some ugly word, in terms of appeal, of the existing state, of objection. If the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is guided by the system -- we're going to do everything to statistically introduce ourselves to a foreign elite, as we allegedly did something good, and that nobody here feels or feels such a small number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then it's the wrong policy, then it's a failed policy. I guess the ultimate effect of politics should be that the greater the number of citizens enjoy some of the benefits because the state has created conditions for them, as the state has allowed citizens to express their abilities. This way I don't see that you're making it possible, you're selecting something selective, you're breaking through, you're looking for things, you're trying to take care of things. I must remind you, here, Mr Markovic, since I know that you are keeping a proper record of what MPs are asking as a question from the Assembly's pay phone, for five years it has been a phenomenon in South Banat that the inspection bodies and the various compositions, veterinarians, health care, etc. are making records, because there must be forced slaughtering some cattle. I'm not getting into what's causing it, whether it's a disease or something, there's evidence of what it's about. I wouldn't want to use some terms, I could make a mistake and someone would laugh, but that's a big amount. What's this about? Whether it was a donation, if it was a loan, but somehow some cattle came from abroad, went to some facility, bought peasants. I don't criticise, the state pays these people to whom they slaughter cattle, but here yesterday, on the roads from Vrsec to Panchev, probably at least one big boot was transported with that dead, killed cattle, and that's what you do almost every week. What's this about? Is it a disease? Did someone do it on purpose? How much does this country cost? What's the situation with the stock fund in South Banat? Who pays that – taxpayers?- I'm sorry. Someone's paying these peasants off. And he should pay them if he destroys their flock. Who's the one who did the damage to the state? What's this about? Is that something to think about, is it a random mistake? Did this permanent disease move in, so it can't possibly be thrown out, to heal? Give me an answer. We can talk nice, go out and compete who will speak with nicer words to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who will say it better, etc. There's nothing good about it for the citizens. We need to answer why it costs so much, if there's someone who's guilty. Maybe there's no one to blame. I don't know, I'm just asking a question about how much it costs, why it costs so much, what's causing such a phenomenon. Those who do business probably know that they are always offered to increase total traffic, to increase total income, to make as much as possible, to sell as possible, but that has some opportunities and potentials. Then when it clashes with reality, it looks as soon as possible to cut costs to ensure a positive business. The state has to look at both revenues and costs. You know, it cuts the citizens of Serbia when they realize they need someone who falsely presents themselves abroad to pay for the ministry. They have no reason to pay. They don't accept that. It's just that people question each other, they ask why it's like that. A citizen comes to us from the street, pretends to be a minister and pushes away. Here Pitic has served three months for half the discussion – you have not taken an oath.. And they say, "Come on, let's take a two-minute break." He takes an oath and moves on as minister. He can't do it in one country. So if you don't accept this initiative that you who wrote this amendment in the Committee on Finance, sit down once again, look at all of this and agree this amendment to the ninth one or those two amendments with the idea of the SRS with regard to the methodology and the time when the harmonisation is to be done, then something can be done, if you don't remove this, believe that we are really free of law. It will be good, and when We do not know. We don't need that kind of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28193	If you're really satisfied with any answer, I think the guilty bounty hunters are beginners. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Petar Jojic asked that the amendment to the 36th word "December" be replaced by "August". The explanation he received says: "Amendment is not accepted since the deadline is defined as the deadline for the production of sublaws, which does not exclude the possibility for the enforcement of this law to be passed within a short period of time, i.e. within the prescribed time limit for the entry into force of the underlegal acts in question which are closer to the regulation". If it's already possible to bring in all sublaws within the short term, why not bring them in? If it's possible to apply the law from December to August, why not do it? What is the reason why the application of this sloppy law does not begin since early August, when MP Petar Jojic asked for it? By the way, since I left for the pay phone, then let me say that Mr Dinkic is not just today in Raznje. For 20 days now, an entire crew of eight-and-a-half black limos, with recognizable numbers, have been walking the Raza. There are more people who come to such cars in Razanj than those who wait for them there. Recently, we had a promotion of the book "The Witness of the Defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague" and after we arrived half an hour earlier, we gathered and I asked – how do you live, is there anything new? One citizen says – there are, the other day I'm driving land manure into the field, when eight Mercedes are going down the road, Velija Ilic appears from one... Now let me make a joke and say, "Okay, what's the difference?" He says there is, I drive my garbage in the trailer...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28195	I'm sorry, I didn't realize two stories. I understand, these reregistered cars. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal, in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Compensation of Social Security (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Miloljub Albianić, Milos Dišić, Nikola Todorovic, Goran Dunjic, Dragutin Perić, Darko Glisic, Milan Vesenović, Tomislav Penezić, Milan Stević, Radiša Ilić, Stefan Zankov, Živan Vladimirović and Aleksandar Djordjevic, as well as the Finance Committee. National MP Miloljub Albianic, written on June 5th 2006, withdrew the amendment to Article 18. The bill, which was submitted on 30 May 2006, then submitted a new amendment to the same member. Reports of the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted have been received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Seeing as there's a problem with maintaining order, we'll take five minutes off, and then we'll move on. [[After break – 17.40]] We're going back to work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28197	Although this is the second draft of the law, for the sake of the public, I must say, since, even here with a large number of members, interventions are being made to the Law on Contribution to Mandatory Social Insurance, there are 19 of them, and the complete intervention of the Government with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to this Law is essentially related to the basis used in the calculation of the contribution to compulsory social security, both in many members and in many amendments, the solutions set out in the first draft law that we have discussed today are quite similar. I just have to say that the government has provided for this law to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that this law will apply from 1 January 2007, with the exception of the provisions of Article. 7 and 8 to be applied from 1 September 2006. I think these opening remarks are necessary to understand this amendment of the SRS and all others that follow. At the beginning of my introduction to this article, we are asking by amendment that Article 1 point 1 of the word "this article does not diminish" by replacing the words "this member is diminishing". What's this about? The Government proposes that the basis of the contribution for employees and employers referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall not be reduced by the amount of 5,000 dinars referred to in Article 15(2). Law on income tax on citizens. This is the most direct link to the previous law, in the previous law it is said when the tax on earnings is being paid is not taken into account the amount of 5,000 dinars and a new basis is being applied to the 12% rate, and we have asked the amendment to be 10%. Those 5,000 dinars, when it comes to the calculation of contributions, are not taken into account, you clearly state that the provision of Article 15a of the Law on the income tax is not applicable. I do not dispute that such solutions have and that they are legally possible, that the basis for contributions is calculated in one way, the basis for taxes in another way. I also do not dispute that the government can think, given that it has a surplus, that the base for tax is smaller, lower, and that the basis for contributions is higher. Why? Because what is paid on the basis of the contribution goes to these mandatory state funds and on the basis of current funding and social policy is a source of funds in which practically the funds for the payment of pensions and other social contributions are collected. And I can accept that, and it's not much of a problem at all. I think we need to move towards stable solutions, stable, consistent that will apply in a longer time period. This is practically the third amendment to this law in two and a half years. In 2004, the law was passed as a new one, at the end of 2005, also with the intention that those solutions apply in 2006, and you see it now changing in advance to apply in 2007. Perhaps it is the problem of these analytical services that exist in the ministries, and if the services of some other expert organisations are used, on the other hand, then there is probably bad data or no one has the courage to carry out a quality analysis of how these funds are collected, which is the means, in which it is possible to collect even greater funds based on contributions. Probably the simplest solution with higher employment, the number of depositors is increasing, thus providing pension funds. When I say pensions, I mean health care, unemployment insurance. I think it was now a solution to align these two bases, and possibly correct these other things with different rates. One would be a tax rate, another would be a contribution rate. This is how you really work things out, and you're essentially causing a problem for those who do the bidding, because the base is different. There will now also be a different basis for the calculation of taxes and the basis for determining and making calculations, the basis for payment of contributions. I don't think that's good. The system needs to be simplified and everyone understood so that in time, a man can plan his business activities, to know what his obligations are. However, in this article, there is also a particular story in that part of which is used to calculate the employer’s obligation, which goes on the burden of his business and on the calculation and calculation of the obligation to pay the employee’s burden. You have to base somehow, or the methodology of getting to the base to simplify and essentially be calculated the same way and then reduce the paperwork, then, if I can say so, in a very efficient way, it can determine whether there's been a miscalculation, how wrong the calculation is, etc. That's why we submitted this amendment, because obviously we didn't have the strength to influence that previous law where the same logic could be applied. So, with a second tax rate, here with a second rate of contribution, the same effect can be achieved and this calculation can be simplified. That is why we have also submitted this amendment, namely to potentiate, if I may say so, the same methodology on the basis of which it confirms what the basis for calculating the contribution to compulsory insurance is and when it comes to the burden of the employer and when it comes to what comes to the burden of the employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28198	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28199	Mr Nikola Todorovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, we asked that this amount be changed in attitude 2 by 3,000 dinars, amounting to 5,000 dinars. Therefore, the basis for the contributions of employees and employers and the pension contribution to a voluntary pension fund paid by the employer on the burden of own funds for the staff and members of the pension fund, under the law governing the pension fund and pension plans, above the amount of 3,000 dinars per month, means: up to 3,000 dinars do not enter into the basis for the payment of contributions, and through that amount enters into the base. I think it's a good opportunity to express one principled attitude, but really, that's the kind of attitude that goes towards voluntary insurance and voluntary retirement insurance, and that's two different things. One is under the Financial Insurance Act, and the other is under the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Plans. To make it really simple, what goes, or what goes towards voluntary insurance, according to the Insurance Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28200	Excuse me, Mr. Krassic. I said, turn it off or answer it, there's always a choice. Please, it's not possible, the transmission is direct. Please, it bothers the techs, just a little bit. Thank you, Mr. Parrish. Keep going. They're mobile because they can handle themselves. Warn all MPs, there's that mobility, because they don't move themselves, someone has to carry them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28201	It's okay. This is a very authentic cell phone definition. So, what's this about? If an employee enters a voluntary pension scheme, all that is paid out of his income for his voluntary retirement insurance is essentially his personal income, but he only goes into consumption when the conditions laid down by the Voluntary Pension Insurance Act are met. Until the conditions are met, one dinar is paid a month, 3,000 dinars, 5,000, 20,000 is not personal consumption, because these funds did not go into consumption. Since these funds have not gone into consumption, they are not subject to tax and cannot enter into the basis for calculating the contribution. Let's take two, theoretically possible situations. One situation is that an employee personally enters a voluntary insurance system or voluntary retirement insurance, and its employer appears as a way, as some transmission through which these funds are channelled, paid, therefore, by the person employed, and that is one variant. Again, there is no legal and economic reasoning to establish any limit – so this amount does not enter into the basis for contributions, and through that amount it enters into the base. And why is that? It's exactly the same situation as when it comes to taxes. Then it means that my assets up to 3,000 dinars I've paid haven't been taxed, and when I paid two dinars over that, I paid my taxes on those two dinars, so after 20 years when I use those funds from a voluntary fund, I'm paying taxes on all the funds again, so somewhere you've paid me taxes twice, and that's the principle difference. It is, as it is not, the same thing about contributions, why you're counting on me over 3,000 dinars, why, and here we're saying that we need investment funds, that we need voluntary pension funds. And what are the variations regarding the allocation of funds, that's some sub-species to you. It takes voluntary insurance, that's the first thing that's done, another limit. If you're afraid that someone's going to hide the funds somewhere, dislocat them, you're wrong, because every time they go out for consumption, taxes are paid. You're afraid that someone here will fictitiously reduce the basis for paying their contributions, and he will thus be punished for the right that he will exercise under mandatory pension and disability insurance and through those points as determined by pensions. We need to stimulate people, that if it comes to some means, so it says, every month I'm left with something, that it directs those funds to safe funds and takes over social care of itself, be, theoretically, after 65 years when they're defined to stop working abilities. Don't stop it, control these voluntary pension funds, those insurance companies, how they provided those funds to citizens, how they placed those funds to citizens, and don't do this. Be careful, it would be very unrealistic, if the party were the government or the opposition, forget it, if someone promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that when we came to power, pensions would be a solution to the problem. People, another 30 years will be the least trouble with our pension fund, where the budget as a guarantee for mandatory forms of insurance will have to intervene. There's no fund from abroad that can stop it. Anyone from abroad who would say that the state can't help mandatory funds, it's killing this people, and it has to be clear to you. That request must not be accepted. What is the purpose of politics, which is the purpose of a guarantee that man invested in some funds for 30, 40 years, no one asked him if he wanted to or didn't want to, but it was mandatory. Thirty-year-old radio, was alive, healthy, chio, cheer, didn't go to the doctor, didn't do anything, got sick before retirement, left, now he's got to pay for everything. Where's what he's been paying for all these years? The state is guaranteed, the state has to jump into that problem and solve it. There's no economic theory; the one that comes to us from all sides, from all meridians. This state must finance pension funds, health funds and these funds for insurance and unemployment. As part of social policy and social protection, the one where tax-based funds are provided, that's another thing, there's 100 percent of the government's obligations. With these mandatory government funds, there's always a guarantee of a missing portion of the funds. We can't have our fund doing a positive job when someone says that on a pensioner one, a point of some unemployed and that he has his current funding. That's impossible. I used to work at the fund when that relationship was one to three, so there was another problem. And then there was a problem, 25 years ago, one by three, so a mandatory three-month pension reserve was abolished, which is held as a deposit with some bank in case of elementary accidents. And that's gone, let's get rid of this, so that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. It's a distraction, it was in that social political system, it was the only way it could have been. Now someone's fooling these people where our actions are, where this is, they're lying to you, people, if that's what they're telling you. The state is guaranteed, I told you a year ago. When those from the West ask you to reduce social contributions and transfer funds towards compulsory insurance funds, etc. Resolutely say – no. You have SRS support. It's easy for them, they were rich, they were 200, 300 years of colonizers, they were taking wealth, they had some of their stable economies, and so on. This cannot be compared to the situation in Serbia, with our past, with our perspective, with our potential, with our legacy of a socio-political system, etc. It can't be compared. It's not the point of politics being our stats without our citizens dying on the street. You will always have support, not you, any authority that shows maximum respect for the social obligations that exist towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have the support of the SRS. In this regard, interpret our amendments to the Law on Mandatory Contributions, contributions to mandatory social security. The system should be simplified to make the basics relatively or absolutely the same, according to the methodology of the same, and an appropriate selective approach towards rates to achieve the same effect, the same goal you want to achieve in these mandatory contributions. We know that you want to provide stable funds, because those who work and who are deposit bonds should provide funds for their parents. And here you have support, but the amendments want it to be more stable, safer and simpler.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28202	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 4. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28203	I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Social Insurance on the grounds that I believe that all incomes made on the basis of privatisation, especially natural persons, ie. workers employed in a legal entity which is privatised, and all of which are from a dilemma which, in my opinion, is quite surprising when they treat the matter of contributions to the privatisation of legal entities, and all for the reason that it was the intention of the legislator to in some way the revenues made from the privatisation of business entities could be fiscally burdened by the previous law which was on the agenda of the Assembly to better identify itself, i.e. It's better to regulate. I point out this because, here, the natural persons of the legal entity in the privatisation process should be regarded as co-owners of the privatisation entity, because, on some grounds, the law allows them to have one share of the purchase price, privatisation as co-owners of that legal entity. Now, if the matter of contributions to the privatisation of legal entities is regulated in this way, contributions to compulsory social and pension insurance, this contribution takes on the quality of fiscal character as if it were fiscal income, i.e., taking on the features of taxes, and we know that the contributions are parafiscal revenues, which serve these PIO funds, in order to fill them in, so that later employees as users can exercise rights from these funds. That is why I have proposed this amendment, that Article 4 of the proposed law be amended and that it reads: "After Article 35, Article 35a, which reads as follows: The basic contribution does not include monetary income on the basis of the purchase price paid by the sale of capital in the process of privatising social capital, which is paid to the natural person in accordance with the law." I believe that the burden of employees, because the provision in the bill applies to persons employed by a privatisation entity, that the burden of the contribution for a mandatory PIO should not fall on the burden of employees of the privatisation entities, as set out here in the proposal. Relieving part of the fee after a year of work experience of up to 200 euros, and 200 euros above is not the employer's intention to achieve a purchase price. It is quite clear here that employees as co-owner of a privatization entity achieves the price of the purchase, in the sale of the privatization entity. In practice, if he were to make such an example, it would mean that in life at all, whether the sale of assets in any form in any form in the case of natural persons, so far in the legal legislation in the Republic of Serbia has not appeared in the case that at the price achieved, sellers are subject to any contribution, and it is normal to pay certain taxes as a classical fiscal income to the state in the case of sales. sales.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28204	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else on the same amendment. No, thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. National MP Momir Markovic will explain. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28205	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a typical example of Dinkic's demagogy is currently referring to the refusal of this amendment submitted by MP Darko Glisic and the arguments they have given that the amendment has been rejected. So far, as regards Article 37 of the Basic Law, the minimum monthly basis of the contribution is 40%. The government has deleted 40% and is demanding that the lowest basis of the contribution be 35% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic paid in the previous quarter for which the data of the Republic's statistical authority has been published, unless otherwise decided by this law, etc. The amount of the minimum monthly base referred to in Article 1 shall be determined and announced by the Minister responsible for financial affairs and applied from 1 January of the following month from the date of publication. National MP Darko Glisic asked that Article 5 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic Law relating to Article 37 be deleted because he considered it a more favourable solution for Serbian citizens to remain the lowest base 40%. And the explanation is: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons because the reduction of the minimum monthly base of contribution achieves a fiscal discharge of earnings (as a rule of the lowest) in the case where the basic income is lower than the lowest basis of the contribution, thus achieving the protection of the social most vulnerable structure"... Anyone who understands will understand. Well, the most endangered structure is 40%, so why are you dropping to 35% now? So he says:... "which earn minimum profit. Also, the expected positive effects of the proposed solution are the creation of more favourable conditions of governance, more regular payouts and payment of contributions, increased employment and job creation, as at lower percentage value for determining the minimum monthly base of contribution, employers will have a greater interest in making their earnings more regular and in making their fiscal commitments more orderly. The reduction of the "grey economy" and the introduction of a part of income from profit into legal flows of fiscal intervention will contribute to greater financial discipline. The analyses found that this is how to relieve the part of the economy that pays the profits below the lowest basis for calculating contributions for about 450 million dinars." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we're really exhausted, we've been working all day on a similar law. I won't explain it anymore. I think the argument given by the government, as well as the amendment given by Mr Glisic, are absolutely clear to Serbian citizens. I suggest that only in the voting day do you press the green button and adopt the amendment of MP Dark Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28206	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic. Here you go, Mr. Penezie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28207	I was in a hurry to get there because I was having trouble with this climate, which you said, so I had to... (President: It's all right, we have plenty of time, anyway, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before... I didn't sign, but I earned a cold. I don't know who signed it, if they were radicals, I'd sign it. (President: The signatories have signed, don't worry. You go ahead. Don't throw Mr. Penezic away, because he's sitting in one of the places that he's turned his attention to, and just now, he's being further threatened. Thank you, Mr. Penezie. I'll give you back your time. Here you go. I wanted to say radicals don't sign it, but, well, I say everything they sign and I'll sign it. So, before I went out for the pay phone, especially Mr Krasic warned, or explained that this is not an addition to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance and my amendment is actually a little longer. In Article 8, the new member, this new member you gave as a correction, Article 45a, to change and to read. I would apologize for having to be a little longer, because I have to read something for the first time, because this is so complicated and complicated, so if you follow both your change and the Law that is existing and this sees that there are some differences that maybe a reader like this wouldn't even notice. The special differences are in Section 3, 4, which will be later in the explanation, so I say I apologize for reading a little bit. Therefore, Article 45a, this is new, it is changed: "A employer who is employed by a person who, in the sense of a law governing work, is considered a trainee, who, on the day of completion of a contract on employment, is under 30 years of age and who is registered as an unemployed person with the National Employment Service, is exempt from the obligation to pay a contribution to compulsory social security paid on the basis, or on the burden of the employer's assets, for a period of four years from the date of establishment of the employment relationship of that person". And that's okay, that's right there. "A employer who employs indefinitely a person who is on the day of completion of a contract for work under 30 years and who has been registered as an unemployed person with the National Employment Service for three months without interruptions before the start of a working relationship, is exempt from the obligation to pay contributions for compulsory social security paid on the basis, i.e. on the burden of the employer, for a period of three years from the date of establishment of that person's working relationship." And now something that doesn't stand, I think, in law. "A employer who employs indefinitely a person who is on the day of completion of a work contract older than 30 years and who has been registered as an unemployed person with the National Employment Service for at least three months without interruption of his or her working relationship, shall be exempt from the obligation to pay contributions for compulsory social security paid on the basis, i.e. on the burden of the employer, for a period of two years from the date of establishment of that person's working relationship." I think it's clear here what this amendment was about to achieve. They're re-involved, as it stands here in an explanation, which I'm going to read, to refer to all unemployed persons. The other members, I won't read them until the eighth. I'm sorry, I have to read them. (President: Please don't hold back, there's still 10 minutes left, free. ) Article 3 is also mentioned. "The newly employed person, within the meaning of Articles 1, 2 and 3 of this article, is considered to be the person with whom the employer has concluded a contract of work in accordance with the law governing work and which he has applied to compulsory social security with the competent organisations for compulsory social security... The newly employed person referred to in Articles 2 and 3 of this article will not be considered to be a person who, before establishing a working relationship, was employed by an employer who was the founder or related person with an employer who founded a working relationship, regardless of whether there was an interruption of the employment relationship. The relief provided for in Article 1, 2 and 3 of this article may be achieved by the employer if the establishment of a working relationship with a newly employed person increases the number of employees in the employer compared to the number of employees on 1 September 2006. If, in the course of the use of reliefs for newly employed persons and persons employed, as well as for the next four years for persons of heading 1 of this article, i.e. three years for persons of St. 2, 3 and 4 of this member, after the expiry of the relief, the employer reduces the number of employees compared to the number of persons employed on 1 September 2006, increased for newly employed persons who make tax relief, loses the right to relief, in which case, in the event that the relief has been achieved for more unemployed persons, he loses first the relief for the newly employed person with whom he previously established a working relationship. The provisions of Article 8 shall not apply in the event of the termination of a working relationship with the death of an employee or for other reasons, irrespective of the will of the employee and of the will of the employer, in the sense of the provisions of the law governing the work." This is where the printing error was stolen, the employer is obliged to pay the contributions, we'll arrange the competition here, and we'll say, "self-delivery," this "a" we'll throw out. "The employer is obliged to pay a contribution to mandatory social security that would otherwise pay"... (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: "I need an e." (President: Please. Then we have to change the rest. Then we'll change the convergence in a different sense. Let it be - "the employer is obliged to pay contributions to compulsory social security which would otherwise have been paid if he had not used reliefs, contributions, valorised by applying the price growth rate to a small amount according to the data of the Republic Office for Statistics, within 30 days of the day of the reduction in the number of employees in the sense of Article 8". So here I've changed, if you understand, now it's got some other meaning. "If the newly employed person ceases working relationship during the duration of the relief, as well as in the next period under Article 8, an employer who, instead of him, hires another person within 15 days at the end of the working relationship, on condition that he does not reduce the number of employees in terms of the position of the 8th member, continues to use reliefs based on the employment of another newly employed person in the scope of the right established for the previously newly employed and employed person. The total period of use of relief from this attitude is reduced during which the unemployed and employed person, whose employment relationship had ceased, worked with the employer. If the trainee referred to in Article 1 ceases working relationship during the relief period, the employer shall continue to make use of the relief until the time limit set out in Article 1 has elapsed, if he employs another new trainee. If the person referred to in Article 2 ceases working relationship during the duration of the relief, the employer shall continue to use the relief until the expiry of the time limit laid down in that position, if he employs another person under 30 years of age. If the person referred to in Article 3 ceases working relationship during the duration of the relief, the employer shall continue to use the relief until the expiry of the time limit set out in that position, if he employs another person who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 3." It's this new attitude that's been put in. "If the person in Article 4 ceases working relationship during the duration of the relief, the employer continues to use the relief until the expiry of the time limit set out in that position, if he employs another person who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 4." That third and fourth members again. "The relief from this member cannot be achieved by state authorities", here is one change from your proposal, "and organisations, public enterprises, public services and other direct or indirect budget users". And a little more. "The National Employment Service pays a contribution for newly employed persons for whom the employer has made a relief in accordance with the provisions of Article 1, 2, 3 and 4." Another addition, newspapers, corrections, your proposal, you listed ministers of various ministries here. "The way and procedure of applying the provisions of this article is closer regulated by the Ministry of Finance." You have stated here, "Minister of Finance", and the Minister of Second and Third, that I do not count. Finally, the finale of all of this I have read, as you understand, stands in reason – tax relief should not only be stimulated by persons younger than 30 years of age, but all persons who are based on employment in new jobs, as well as those who have lost their jobs in the privatisation process. I'll just tell you, if I have time, and I have, unfortunately, there are those professions, profiles, especially high-school schools, which have finished, it's been piled up, it's had no business, sometimes the industry has been developed, now it's fallen to low branches, they haven't got a job day and day. It's my students and that vacuum, they've been over 30, they haven't been hired, and now they don't have any relief, they don't have anything to do with this law, and by this law, all persons unemployed and those who have lost their jobs in privatisation or some other way, they have the right to work as well as others, and they're relieved by the employer who receives them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28208	Thank you, Mr. Penezie. You have recorded all objections and the "plural tantum" item 3. - 4th and that connection, and the palatable, is it? Yeah. Thank you. If something's wrong, you'll have a chance to check in the stenogram later. Financial committee under Article 140(5) Rules of Procedure, he submitted an amendment proposing that Article 12a be added after Article 12a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28209	Mr. Markovic, our business hours are up. I'll take the opportunity, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to share with this one amendment all that's left for these two, three, as far as it's going to go. (President: It is simply a request that, on behalf of Mr Stevovic's amendment, and on behalf of the parliamentary group that submitted the amendments, Mr Krasic will address all amendments. ) Several amendments refer to criminal provisions. We just wanted to draw attention, especially with the amendments of Mr. Radisa Ilic, Stefan Zankov and Zivan Vladimirovic, to indicate that there is one part that is avoided in the violation provisions. So there are several categories of employers that do not touch the criminal provisions of the existing law. That's where we gave one variant of what it should look like. Your answer was that it was not acceptable because it was allegedly not accurate, because in the context of the amendment no invitation was made to a member containing a material provision with a prescribed obligation, and for one group of amendments you said that penalties were prescribed below the minimum provided for in the infringements. There are some reasons why you do not accept these amendments. I can also accept your reasons, that you may be right, but I cannot accept that you have not intervened in some way, as Government, through the Finance Committee or through some other parliamentary group within the ruling coalition, to remove in these amendments what you consider to be a disturbance, so far as it is not clear anywhere that this group cannot be covered by breaking norms. If you already respect that there is a group that is not covered by these provisions, then include it. We consider these amendments to be precise and bring into the same position all those who, within the meaning of this regulation, can be interpreted as the payer of contributions, i.e. the employer who is to make and report and pay, etc., depending on the specific infringement. That's one thing, and we're not going to report for a detailed explanation. Mr. Markovic, I just have to warn you, Mr. Penezic used 99% of the time he spent behind this speaker to read what the government wrote. That's the government's proposal. The only intervention with the amendment, Tomislav Penezic, referred to the fact that, in order to get new employment, no positive discrimination against age is being conducted. (President: Excuse me, is there any objection to me? Everyone chooses their own book. ) No, just for the sake of your intervention, to make it particularly clear to the representatives of the Government what heading 3, item 4. etc. Mr Penezic read the proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia. I totally agree with you that this looks silly, but you can't blame the SRS for trying to arrange something that's stupid at birth. It was born there in Germany, and that formula was obtained. If we write "clear the amendment", then you say it's not constructive. If we try to change a few words in your text, then everyone here wonders what it looks like. Well, that's the government's proposal. The government's proposal regarding Article 45a is on three sides and reads exactly as Mr Penezic reads. The point of all that is in his amendment asking for something to be done in that proposed article is that there is no discrimination. I'm not using the word discrimination in a negative sense, but here is something that some call positive discrimination, in terms of stimulating younger than 30, interns, who are first employed and some age categories. Mr. Penezic explained in one life case the whole essence of his amendment – what should we do with those people who are more than 30 years old, and for the first time are employed? Why is it that an employer, compared to their employment, does not have the benefits provided for each new employee? That's the whole point of this amendment that, in the final version, seems so ghastly, difficult to understand. We simply could not change the idea set of this member, but only in some ways have we changed the word in order to potential this non-selective approach – what is a newly employed worker and what is the obligation to pay contributions based on receiving a new employee as an individual and for an appropriate period, which has been prescribed and proposed by the Government. If there is some uncertainty, then the ambiguity is related to the text of the Amendments and the Supplements of the Law, not to the amendment of the SRS. Well, we're done with this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-21-0.u28210	I realized, that's why I pointed out, because it's the difference, which is why the text of the amendment was read and specifically pointed to differences that can act minimally, but change the essence. That's why it was important to read like that. Thank you for further explaining a few more amendments this way. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Radisa Ilic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Stefan Zankov submitted an amendment proposing that Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zivan Vladimirovic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee, on the basis of Article 140(5) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure, he submitted an amendment proposing that Article 16a be added after Article 16. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, MP Miloljub Albianic, the Government and the Finance Committee adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. () Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Tomorrow we will continue in detail, but I would like to remind you that at the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda, we do not have any amendments, which means that we will move to a debate in detail on the 5th item of the agenda tomorrow, at 10.00 p.m., and that is the bill on salaries of civil servants and tenants. Thank you, everyone.
