ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28344	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Blagica Kostic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. We are moving to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Payments of Civil servants and OF FUTURE (the sequel in particular) we have reached an amendment to Article 53, which was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Nestorović. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28345	Dear gentlemen in the O.R., honourable citizens, we have submitted an amendment to article 53 of this law. The government answered. We accept the explanation that the proposing representative gave us here as a reason why this amendment is being rejected to Article 53 and we are withdrawing this amendment. However, I would like to take advantage of the time I have and just draw attention to a few things that I don't like in the way that the promoter essentially thought about when he defined this law which, as we all know, is also very much related to the Law on Civil Servants. First of all, I believe that there was an idea of an average, i.e. at the end of the equalization of civil servants within each state authority. I agree with you, Mr. Balinovac, when you say the law is a form and essence, but although I'm not a lawyer, I seem to say that when the great lawyers talked about respecting the form first of all, they thought that law should be respected, and that in the context of a law, it shouldn't be excessively petty, because then it kills the spirit of the law, and I'm afraid that in this case, it will kill the soul of the civil servants. I think in this law and the previous, therefore, civil servants, quite a formality has been introduced, that a kind of tyranny of the diploma of knowledge has been introduced. I really support anyone who perfects and who gets formal proof of their perfection, but today in Serbia, we have the fact that many universities, many of which have a lot of private schools, do not gain that knowledge that may be easy to compare with the knowledge of many civil servants, who may be lower education, and through practice have come into the situation to do a much better job than a young man who has just left a state or private university. The second thing here is the big question of who will be the people who will be estimating some people, or officials in state institutions, at all, in the ministries. So the question of their criteria and their ability to look objectively at the efforts and work of one of the tenants. I have to say that in our state administration so far, there has been a largely negative selection, and I think that in essence and the problem of negative selection is something that will be a process in this country; so you can't do it by any law, by any chance, with an ad shock to solve it. It is necessary to simply create an atmosphere in which this negative selection will be contained, and I believe that this is precisely the kind of formalisation through these paid classes essentially at the moment (although the law is good, for me, but for some more ideal times and not for Serbia), which is paradoxical, favoured by this negative selection. I don't think that people who are supposed to be graders will succeed, on the one hand, to recognize knowledge, and on the other hand, when they recognize that knowledge, it will be a signal to them that someone who is below them and who they judge at a given time is jeopardizing their position with perhaps greater knowledge, and that may also be a motive for certain people who deserve a good assessment of weaker grades. It's simply something that happens to us in practice, we as a society are sick and I as an MP want to draw attention to it. (President: Time.) You have three minutes. ) I have seen another one, too harsh to say stupidity, but most of all it seems to me: in one of the congregation bulletins in the systematization of jobs for me, the most important advisory positions in the parliamentary groups are prescribed a year of work experience for these places. Now, I've had a chance to work here with counselors, both economically and legally, and I'm really wondering what some, say, young man who has a year, two or five working experiences is going to do here as an MP. With all due respect, I think counselors who work with MPs, these are the most responsible jobs in the country, should have an enviable working experience of 20-30 years, that people be time analysts, that they be people who work in law enforcement, at law enforcement. They must, working with people who define in some way the future of this state and its system, whatever system it is, that they really have a respectable experience. When you bring a young man from college, no matter how good a student he was or how talented a man is, he simply does not possess that experience that is necessary for someone who advises, say, a MP. That's why I say it's more or less a stupid solution. I really support the idea that young people open their doors wide and give them every opportunity to perfect their skills and experiences, but really for such jobs, I need the top that this country has. And I'll say one more thing. It's about a new affair in the already former SCG Assembly, which is being talked about and written by all the media. Simply, how do you explain the fact that after all your efforts, and they stand de facto, that in the state administration you are seducing order, how do you explain that on the download list for this National Assembly, the officials of the 19th and 20th classes, as Gogol would say, since he wrote a lot about these things, whose internship in this assembly can be measured on days, months or possibly a year, and that the officials of the first and second paying groups in that assembly will be out of work? It's a question that's been discussed here a lot. I can't ignore what it is to write media, no one has denied that among the people Mr. Shami hired there are people like retired pilot, high school music teacher, construction and other technicians, nurse. I think it's clear to you that the laws you're proposing, if this practice continues, there's nothing you can do about it. So, once again, I fully believe in your good intentions to get the state administration out of misery and to reduce policy involvement in the profession, but once again, I think that in the way it's imagined here, and that's pretty idealistic, given that Serbia is a matter and that we have to and how we have to know where we are in this civilization sense, when it comes to the state administration, there's not much that can be achieved. I am simply afraid that these officials, and I have had the opportunity to meet great experts in this assembly who, by their work, contribute greatly to the quality of these discussions and to improve the laws, do not come into one position that is absolutely not respecting what they have done so far. Once again, I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 53.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28346	The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) The word is held by Mr Zoran Balinovac, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28347	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank all the MPs who, in principle or in particular, participated in the search of this law. I think that the debate was creative, constructive, and it heard different opinions, but it wouldn't make sense if everyone thought the same thing. After everything that happened behind this speaker and after the exchange of arguments, I remained convinced that the government's bill, as it was integratedly delivered to the National Assembly, was the best possible solution, of course, when considering the amendments that we consider to be rejected. I therefore call on the National Assembly to adopt this law in the voting day and reject all amendments, not from the whim, not from the government's will, not from the spite, but because this time there was really no amendment that could fix the law, but rather, they were amendments that went directly into the concept of the law. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28348	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON PERSONAL CARD (specificity) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP of the Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28349	Ladies and gentlemen, since the proposal for a law on the ID card is very important and since many controversys are heard in public about this law and we have spoken as much, or as much time as it has allowed, at least we in the SRS, about this proposal in principle, we think it is unacceptable to discuss the details contrary to the Rules of Procedure, or without the presence of the Secretary-General. No matter what we have the government's opinion, there are a lot of arguments we want to make convinced that the minister might adopt some of our amendments to improve the law. We also have a lot of questions about this law that only a competent minister can answer in particular. When we spoke in principle, we told Mr. Minister that in particular we would ask him some specific questions regarding certain legal solutions. He knows it, you all know it, and we insist that this cannot be done without the minister's presence, in fact we insist on applying the Rules of Procedure and wait for the presence of the interior minister, because it is truly inadmissible, unresponsible and irresponsible to ignore the National Assembly in this way, to insult the dignity of the National Assembly. So, Mr. Chairman, the SRS parliamentary group is seeking and insisting on ensuring the minister's presence or taking a break until the minister in charge appears in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28350	Mrs. Radeta, I think it's rational and instructive to open a search in particular, and professional services will be asked about the speed or power of the minister to come and attend this debate, and then I'll decide whether I'll take a break or not. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Zoran Krasic, Miljko Četrović, Natasa Jovanovic, Bozidar Koprivica, Zlatan Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, Bora Kutić, Milan Stević, Vojislav Milajić, Milovan Radovanovic and Momir Markovic, as well as the Defence and Security Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Defence and Security Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 2. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Defence and Security Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 3. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28351	Before I say anything about the amendment, Mr. Mikhailovich, I don't know why you've sent the deputy secretary to check something out, I'm surprised you don't know that the minister is out of the country today. The Minister is in London, the media published it, and we don't mind the minister doing his job, but his superior job is to be here in the Assembly Hall when it comes to discussing the law where he is a representative of the promoter. You have the conditions to decide whether or not you will stop working or do the opposite of the Rules of Procedure, which you have clearly decided, because it is truly unserious to say – that we should start, so let's see when the minister will come and if the minister will come. The minister must be from the beginning of the debate in the hall and from the beginning of the debate to listen to what MPs suggest in order to respond and give some answers to the questions raised by the MPs. So, I've informed you where the minister is and I'm asking you now whether you're going to work in the Rules of Procedure or not to apply the Rules of Procedure, so let's proceed according to the amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28352	Mrs. Radeta, nowhere explicitly in the Rules of Procedure does it say that the minister must attend the debate in detail. I'm always doing business. Even if I decide not to take a break and not wait for the minister, I'm working on the Rules of Procedure again. You guys just keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28353	Thank you. So we keep working without applying the Rules of Procedure and this isn't the first time. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 because Article 7 is incomplete and inadmissible. This is one of the members of this law that will not be applied in practice, which refers to what the ID card, or the form of the ID card prescribed by the minister, as it says in the proposal, should contain. It says here that data should be entered into this form: last name, name, sex, day, month, year of birth, place, municipality and country of birth, unique birth number of citizens. In the form of a ID card are also pictures of the biometric data of the holder and of the id, and the date of issue of the ID card with the period of validity of the ID card. You need to be a member of the 7th. The bill complements some more information, and it is necessary for the form of the identity card to include the name of the parents. In one of the following amendments, we have also made an observation, and this is about this amendment, that it is impossible for the Ministry, or government to predict that the name of the parents is not entered in the identity card, but instead to enter the single parent number of parents. And in the principle debate, I warned that it was impossible for Serbia to have a large number of citizens who came to Serbia with the status of refugees or exiled persons, that most of those persons do not have home numbers, that their children today will not be able, although they have received citizenship, to get ID cards because their parents do not have a single birth number. A very practical and very specific reason why we suggested that the identity card form must contain the name of the parents and completely logically that the form must contain information about the number of ID cards. I don't know how you imagined you were betraying those ID cards, what your intention was, that perhaps, with these ID cards, you might be deluding something in the next election, since you haven't yet provided a unique voter's list, and then your ID cards without record, or without a regular number of souls, gave you for that kind of abuse. We Serbian radicals, when we talk about some law and some amendment, always take care of what the government has offered us, what is written here, and what is written between the lines and each time we warn you how some member of the law we intervene in will be able to abuse, which will eventually not be applied. This one will also be able to be abused and not be applied. We therefore insist, or ask the MPs to accept this amendment, given that the minister is not here and that he is obviously not going to join us during the debate, and the Government has not accepted this amendment with an explanation: "As the data contained in the form set out in Article 7. The bill provides reliable confirmation and verification of the identity of the person, especially in the light of the fact that the identity of the person is entered into the form and the biometric data of the holder and of the document, and given the machine readability of all the data in the ID card and the data on the number of ID cards would be exceeded, as it would not have the same function as in the previous regulations. "This argument of the Government is not good, for us it is unacceptable, and therefore I am sorry that the minister is not here that we are a little more positious about this argument and we ask him, since it is generally known that these chips and these data are being introduced into our legal system only because they were once bought, because huge funds were invested by former Minister Mihajlovic in the purchase of these personal cards and since the former government of Zoran Zivkovica bought this through the company of this Pevcevic, who is now in this bankruptcy affair very well known in the affair of the case as well. It would have been better if the minister and the ministry, both this and the Justice Ministry, had dealt with the fact that the equipment was purchased, who had been installed during the purchase, how much damage the state had suffered. Why did we even buy something that most countries in Europe don't have, why should we be guinea pigs with some kind of chips when many serious European countries refused to identify their citizens, when citizens around Europe protested the introduction of such chips. Our ministry and this government have also shown through this that continuity with the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. So, the government of Kostunica - Dulic and the competent minister, Jocic, set out on a low-resistance line and would not explain to the citizens of Serbia what masculine and criminal activities took place around the purchase of this equipment, they chose to propose to the MPs this proposal for a law on ID cards. In Serbia, too, most citizens react as they have reacted throughout Europe, most citizens are terrified and appalled by the fact that they will be implanted with some chips, that they will be connected with European centres, that they will be monitored by any, whoever comes to mind and that in this way and these ID cards, they lose the full privacy of Serbian citizens. Most citizens know this and they fear it and expect their MPs to convince Minister Jocic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this law is withdrawn from the procedure, that some more serious draft law should be proposed to the MPs and, of course, that the Ministry should review the procurement of these equipment that is now forcing us to engage in this system and that these chips are being implanted into our ID cards. The previous government spent a lot of money on this equipment. So, since we know that the people who participated through the company through which the equipment was purchased are now involved in two major affairs of this government, then it would really be necessary to have real information from Minister Jocic about what he did, what the Ministry did in disclosing the way this equipment was purchased, how damaged the states are, because they're big money. Minister Jocic, when we discussed it in principle, when he replicated one of the MPs and tried to defend this introduction of chips, first said that the chips were less dangerous than mobile phones – then, as a logical conclusion, it was imposed on me that the Ministry was listening to our cell phones – and then the minister said that all Serbian citizens know that mobile phones can easily be tapped. Of course, I told the minister, and now I say it to the public of Serbia, it's one thing when two or three people on the street or at the bar discuss how it's possible for cell phones to be tapped, and the other thing is when the police minister says it, or when the police minister finds that it's more dangerous than listening to cell phones than tracking these new ID cards with chips. At the same time, Minister Jocic, and I, Mr Mihailovic (are you still, since you often change), insisted that Minister Jocic be present here today, promised in the principle debate and said this – if the problem is that this equipment was obtained for these new ID cards at the time when the police minister was Dusan Mihajlovic and if there is any doubt of how it was obtained, how much the state damaged by the purchase of that equipment, I have no objection, we will examine it and see it. It's kind of a story. Another type of story, said Minister Jocic, is the necessity of introducing such ID cards. First, I was surprised that Minister Jocic had done nothing and Vlad Kostunica - Dulic, that they had not done anything in the investigation of the way in which they were purchased and the equipment, and that he promised it only after the intervention of the SRS MPs. In particular, it is surprising that this bill is being discussed just at a time when it is known that the minister is not there, and that two days that are not under the Rules of Procedure are skipped, working days for the National Assembly, but almost regularly used as working days in the last few months. Then the real question is how did it happen right now, because it was known that Minister Jocic would travel to London. Why exactly did he set up to talk about the bill at a time when he wasn't here? Does this mean that Serbia's public will remain deprived of this very important information on the purchase of equipment for new ID cards provided by Dusan Mihajlovic and then the previous government of yellow thieves, I stress, through this Pevcevic's firm, as was his name, Ostova Pevcevic, who is known to the public by the latest affairs of the government. We expect Minister Jocic to know both the MPs and the public of Serbia with all these very interesting issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28354	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28355	With this amendment, we follow those of our principled views that we have made in the principle debate on this bill. Mr. Peric submitted on behalf of the SRS an amendment which is essentially required to delete words in Article 8(1) – the unique parent number of his parents. It's a member who defines what all needs to contain a form of ID card. Regardless of our objections regarding these numbers, we find this absolutely unnecessary if it is given what the ID card is – a means of identifying and identifying the identity of the individual, citizen and citizen of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that his parent's unique birth number must not be a mandatory part of this pattern, because I must remind you that there are some standards that we should probably follow. What the Government has stated on the other side of the draft law, it says, by introducing, etc., harmonising with European and world standards, recommendations, directives, but there is no number anywhere, the date on which the directive was published, the recommendation. There's no indication in which states, and I haven't seen it in this part, maybe somewhere else, if there's one, then I probably didn't read it right. I have not noticed that there is information about whether something like this exists in one of these European countries. Again, the question of standards and interpretation of standards is raised, when it should be applied to us. It's very freely interpreted here, every recommendation is a binding act, some imperative norm, and unless it's done according to that recommendation, it's likely that someone would bomb us. Of course that's not true. You will not be able to find an answer to the question, and why it is not regulated in Italy, France, Germany, Spain. Or, now, to take another example, to take an example of a state called Portugal. Portugal belongs to a rare group of states that are characterised by a modern constitutional and legal regime. It raised the issue of citizens' identification through numbers to the level of constitutional norm. The Constitution of Portugal explicitly states that it is forbidden to keep records of citizens by some numbers, by some mathematical formulas, by some mathematical signals. Except with a name, a last name, and you yourself know what a name and a last name look like and what it contains between what we call a name and a last name. When it's represented as something standard, then you have to find an answer to the question, and why isn't it, say, in Portugal like that. And the fact is, it's not like that in Portugal. You have to find an answer, but a rational answer, why in another Western European state this system with this technique that appears here. Now I'm going to go back specifically to what the amendment requires. We believe that unnecessary information is needed, to be more precise, the number of parent parents and that it can be misused, not so much by the authorities, because the authority and the state have all that data, but can be abused by a person who in some way legitimateizes a citizen, at any time enters a public facility and the application has to present himself who and what he is, as a means of identification comes a ID card. It's possible someone's copying and abusing it. I need to draw your attention to a group of technical disadvantages that make this whole concept of yours absolutely pointless. For years, since the unique number of citizens has been assigned to the MUP through their secretariats, according to your data from the MUP, if 10 solutions are issued on the allocation of the home number, in two to four cases the number is wrong. We found that, I had a chance to see that, because I was in two terms a member of RIK, so when we were trying to make a unique voter list at the level of the Republic of Serbia, then people from the MUP, above all, technical persons working on that computer system, pointed out the problem that a person repeatedly appears on the polling list with different data and that very often when determining a single parent number of real mistakes. Now, if that error is passed on to this, if I were to say so, the new technological system looks and issues of the ID card, then that initial problem just multiplies to nonsense, that then a practical ID card in some parts and for some of the data it contains is an absolutely inaccurate document about the individual. One of these items that tends to be absolute inaccuracy and inaccuracy is exactly what we are asking by amendment to erase, therefore, the unique parent number of parents, which is completely unnecessary as an identification information for individuals. I still have to draw your attention, because in one period while these yellow ones were counting on everything and everything, they were the victim of a system like that, of course, that's what some of them from abroad came up with, so through this NATO infantry they tried to finish the job, even though they talked to me about some of my phone numbers, but that wasn't enough people from the D.A.'s office; so they had paper, the number of IDs, when we had a conversation, which was my address, which was my phone number, all the data they had. So, a personal interview was conducted in some pre-examination proceedings, but then in the Second Municipal Court one of the deputy public prosecutors remembered that it wouldn't be bad to ask the Ministry for official information, but only by name and last name, so I got four names and last names, and one accepted to play the alleged suspect. Yeah, you can turn your head all you want. Let me just tell you that immediately afterwards, the investigating judge, the deputy public prosecutor, was also changed, because it was a political persecution which was a conspiracy by the MUP, and at the head of the MUP was the famous Mr. Mihajlovic, who was even more famous for providing equipment, but was particularly remembered in public, because there was a political party who made the charts, so it showed a connection between "Lutra" and some companies, as computer equipment was provided in the MUP was provided. When they came to power, I thought, as soon as they arrived, within 15 minutes Dusan Mihajlovic would be arrested. I later concluded that something else was going on, and when I saw this bill, then I'm absolutely sure it was a stable permanent coalition, that it was a story of how to fool citizens like, well, they're different with the code from the one that has the Lutra code, they're more concerned about something, and now they amnesty his equipment. Or maybe it's the one who sold that equipment and where it comes from and too strong for the Lutra and for some codes, for the government of Vojislav Kostunica, that they can't even think of touching anything. So, to conclude, Serbian citizens should be informed, and the best form of information is the National Assembly, because it hears absolute truth. However, not all of them, but when it comes to the MPs of the SRS, we must speak the truth, because we are punished by the truth. So there's only some kind of personal card issue equipment in our country. Such equipment does not exist in those countries that are several times more developed than the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it cannot be concluded that Serbia is richer than they are, because we are poor compared to these Western European countries, but they did not want to accept this system, because they believe that this form of registration and looks like personal cards would significantly disrupt privacy and question the protection of information about a person. This is where he insists on something that doesn't exist anywhere, it's gone. Why? There's probably something going on behind it, because it's not just the amnesty of Dusan Mihajlovic for spent funds, I'm sure of it. So someone decided and purposed that in Serbia the technological system of registering and issuing ID cards must look just like this. It's this danger that we raise our voice, endure amendments, try to adapt this concept of the law to something, taking care of the protection of human rights, the right of every citizen to protect the data on his privacy. We also remind the Government of the Republic of Serbia and everyone who is in some way professionally dealing with the issue of electronic data processing or recording such data that many Western European countries prohibit their citizens and citizens from running by some codes, by some numbers. I gave you an example of Portugal in which a level of constitutional norm is thus lifted, that is to say, a ban on the state to show information about its citizens and citizens in terms of numbers, mathematical terms, ciphers, etc. Take care, if you're talking about stepping into that Europe, make sure you don't skip it, then it's Atlantic and you can drown there. So if it's a big jump, then it's a jump to the Atlantic, not the Alps. Don't give us anything and everything by European standards, because if you want us to have a special debate on European and world standards, let's make one debate to define what the standard is, so we need to interpret it, but this is how we get into a situation where every expert allegedly talks and lectures on what the standard is. I don't trust these people, because I'm asking right now, give me the document, give me a translation in Serbian, let me interpret what the word means. As soon as you look for it, it becomes a tut, a fugitive, and where they will flee – they run to some newspapers to tell them something that would be interesting to them. We have to stamp everything that's being pushed through the system here that's all professional, professional and good because it has 126 votes. So 126 votes are not essentially an argument, but it's just a political instrument that you prove to be the government, but it has many times nothing to do with reasonable observation and mental health.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28356	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) According to the amendment, the People's MP Miroslav Zivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28357	I didn't answer as a government attorney, just for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the citizens, because, as Mr. Krasic said, we are obliged to say something. The acquisition of equipment for the registration of citizens, as well as the purchase of this system, was discussed at one of the first sessions of the Security Committee chaired by Mr Mircic, otherwise the chairman of the Security Committee, and was then explained how the equipment was obtained, why the contract was not broken, what damage this would have to do in Serbia's country, so that the move of the issue two and a half years later is unnecessary, only if there are no political reasons. The other thing, I understand the fear that you're trying to sow among the citizens, from the new technology, and that's quite reasonable, but I just want for the truth to say that this chip you're all using and I guarantee that 50% of the members of the SRS have what's called a chip. Here, I'll show you, it's that chip that you say over there will be listening to, spying; what I'm showing is a simple halo card and you all use it, not to talk about payment cards, not to talk about data being entered to get a payment card. No one here says it's about spying, it's just about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28358	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28359	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting as one of the members of the Committee whose chairman is Mr. Milorad Mircic, and you know the decision of the SRS and that we are no longer involved in the work of the board. This event and discussion that former government minister Dusan Mihajlovic, along with his promoter Simovic, was talking about this which was responsible for informing the MUP, explained, though, as well as all other malversions that took place at the MUP while he was at the helm... Not to mention the phantom action "Sabbe", about the murders that were happening, about the direct connection of him to the most criminal clan in our country, by forcing certain enemies to falsely testify against Professor Vojislav Seselj in the Hague casamat. So, it was this session of the Committee, where we raised the issue of the property of the SRS, which today stands as a sword over the head and current Minister Dragan Jocic, who is not in the Assembly today when discussing the proposal for this law, and it is the SRS jeep that took Dusan Mihajlovic from us. On this same committee, you must remember that it was the last committee chaired by Mr Mircic, and that Dusan Mihajlović participated in it, because we have established committees and we have had a Defence and Security Committee, with all the former MUP meeting, with no answers from Dusan Mihajlovic, Banjca and others who have misused their official position, for a set of questions we have referred to them. Among other things, we asked who it was that arranged for the purchase of the equipment, as we asked what was wrong with the assets of the SRS, since we already had twice, is so, Mr Krasic, by the Supreme Court, three times, the verdict that this is the property of the SRS that was taken from us by the former Dossian government. This minister is also personally responsible for this, because he inherited it, as he inherited this business of introducing these ID cards in the way his predecessor negotiated it, and then the question of what is the difference and how much is it going to cost us. I'll tell you later that information, since the great rebellion of citizens has been in many countries, in Greece, in Great Britain, and so on, what are their estimates in relation to their population. Here's the question, in this poor Serbia, when people don't have bread to eat, where we're going to stop by introducing this system and what else will be the accompanying equipment and who will show up for the remont. Then the minister would come, but the government will change, so he won't be in a situation, and I hope the law itself won't be implemented because he's six months old, and until then you can't stand the power. You remember what it was like with electricity; over the past six years, we've always had them because of Hamovic's lobbies, Lazarevic and these former doss thieves, these yellow ones and those after which they're close to you and Kostunica, like these two, and especially Dinkic, and the remont of the electro-prived, the counterguarantee... Let's remember for yourselves over the past two years how much the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has approved counter-guarantee for the refurbishment of power plants and how much we now need to maintain equipment, these motorolas. The question is how much will it cost the state, not to talk about other negative effects and potential dangers. So, you're not, colleague, right, it was a committee on which Dusan Mihajlovic was personally on, with his position that hasn't changed that last day, and he didn't give us answers to all these questions, because we were just asking, since he first established the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia where the president of the opposition political party is, to answer everything that he had asked him for years ago, and Prof. Vojislav Seselj himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28360	Mr. Christin, on what grounds? By amendment. Then he has the advantage of Mr. Krasic for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28361	This pay phone has two completely incorrect facts, but since 21 days, today is 21 days when someone is trying to put something in my dictionary that I'm not talking about. I call upon all those who wish to comment on my political views to listen very precisely to what I say and to give, if possible, the most authentic Serbian meaning of every word I use. I have to remind you, I was talking about equipment in the context of the government's arguments and opinions, which reject our amendments among other things and because it is claimed that the existing equipment that is lurking out there is so prepared to throw out this information that is listed in the bill. The moments are said - you may be right to throw out some information, but the equipment we have has to disclose that information, it has to register it. In this context, I talked about equipment and, of course, opened the subject of consistency for those who criticized the supply of that equipment. That's their problem now. The other thing, in no word did I sow fear of modern technologies. I was merely expressing the political stance of the SRS and the disagreement that something here is being presented to us towards European and world standards, and then I very specifically cited countries that do not want to accept what someone is pushing as a standard here. Speaking of this fear of new technologies, just to remind the public, only the SRS gives schools the latest generation of computers. It's our relationship to technology.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28362	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28363	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us an amendment to Article 8(1). Let's get back to the amendment. Article 8. contains automatic data loading and protection elements. The conceptal difference clearly exists between the government, which believes that the data quantum should be the one that meets the security needs, and our fellow MPs from the SRS who consider it to be too much data and thus enters privacy. We believe that the existing security system, as it is, is precisely demanding that the data quantum be expressed in the needs of the security protection of citizens. We're trying to explain that getting into other people's rights has one restriction called the rights of others and third parties. So how do we protect the rights of others if we don't have information about someone who commits crimes? So we're talking from the point of view of someone who does something that's forbidden and we're trying to explain that it's better that we don't have information about him, and we're expressing on the other hand the need to protect some other people who don't commit crimes. If we want to protect someone from socially forbidden behavior, then we need to have all the information on anyone who does. It is this record that allows us to have all this data in that number of data that, according to the modern state of security, I mean the trafficking of people, the trafficking of drugs, weapons, organised crime and terrorism, requires precisely that the data be expressed in this extent in which they are expressed. That's the difference in concept. As for the specific amendment, it refers to leaving out the only unique birth number of his parents, the parents of the one to whom the map refers. So it's not about the chip, it's not about any other amendment, it's just about leaving out a unique parent number. The story of the chip, this one, there's no room for that one in the amendment. There's no chip here. Then it would be -- you delete a member and then we wouldn't have a chip. We have the chip regardless of the SRS amendment, but we don't have that in that chip, in that data there will be a unique parent number of parents. When you look at your ID card and those I.D. cards that were issued about 30 years ago, the plastic ones I showed, those I.D. cards and now they contain and then they contained the name of one of the parents. So, and then and now the fact of what's called a parent, which is a unique parent's number, is something that marks a person's face. So you have faces that have the same name and name and differ from what their parents are called. Since there are no parents' names in the contents of the new record, it has a unique home number of citizens. I would like to remind you that this unique number of citizens has been committed for decades in Serbia and in the earlier country in which Serbia was. Therefore, nothing new or anything in particular should require intervention in this way. So the amendment only requires that a single parent number be deleted. It's very important for our citizens to have that quantum data. The chips are in all the cards, the bank cards and the ones we have in the parking lot, etc., and they are not threatened by any greater danger than they already are. We all carry cell phones, we have computers, laptops, we drive cars where computers are, and it's all registered, there's a record of it, and I don't see why a personal card would be a problem. I suggest that indeed, there are representatives of the MUP sitting here, as far as this is concerned, that we reject this amendment in the Assembly, but I suggest that they facilitate the process of getting the ID card, that it is very important. In large cities, for hours and days, you wait to get your ID card, and that's important for the citizens. What is proposed by the amendment is nowhere near that interest, as it is of interest to have as much data as possible and to get the ID card as easy as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28364	The word is Tomislav Nikolic, a National MP. Did you ask for the Rules of Procedure or...? National MP Zoran Krasic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28365	It's probably my predecessor's slip or maybe he said it on purpose, but we're not asking to delete the name and last name, but JMBG's parents, you probably made a mistake. The unique home number of a person does not contain a name and a last name, but contains numbers. Maybe it was a lapus. Read the stenogram and you will determine very precisely what you have said. So we're talking about the amendment to the number, not the name, that's a big difference. I don't need to be afraid of that technique, as you're trying to present it, but I need to draw your attention: when a citizen of the MUP gets a solution that has given him a JMBG solution in that solution, all the data on that individual are contained, and parents, birth, place, date, address, everything is contained in that solution. Take care when you dispute amendments to the SRS, you should know what the current situation is and what is proposed. This is how when you're pausing the risk of finding out the truth through the replica, but also of the public finding out that you don't know what the current situation is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28366	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28367	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think my colleague Krasic understood me. I just said it was a conceptal difference and we're talking about that the data quantum is good, and Mr Krasic is saying it's too much, and I've drawn attention to the amendment that Mr Krasic is calling not to speak at all about the data quantum, he doesn't leave out any chips or data, but only one information, JMBG's parents. I said so, and I made a comparison: since the current record contains the name of the parents, and she had previously contained it, this one does not contain and uses the numbers instead. So you have parents, but instead of names and last names you have a number, JMBG. In doing so, I said that the JMBG in Serbia's legal system and earlier Yugoslavia exists for at least three decades, that it is binding and that it is known and that it is no secret and that no secret will be injured because it will not be in the ID card. Therefore, it is no protection not to know JMBG's parents. Moreover, it is necessary, because if we leave out the name of the parents then we do not have the mark and if two natural persons have the same name and last name, parent name or JMBG only distinguishes those two faces. If we didn't have a JMBG or a parent's name, they wouldn't be different. If we leave out the chip you're talking about, even though you're not leaving it out of the way, then we just couldn't know who it was. So you didn't completely understand me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28368	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28369	I'm trying to understand Mr. Kristin's discussion. One thing is not clear to me: do you claim, Mr. Krstin, that two Serbian citizens can appear with a ID card that will have the same name and name, the same date of birth, the same address and the same JMBG so it won't be possible to distinguish them, but we also need to know the JMBG of their parents? That is not true, there are no two Serbian citizens with the same JMBG. Why was JMBG introduced? So that those who have similar data can differ from each other. What do you need with the police department, what do they need with their Western employers, why do they need a JMBG who won't see the one who's wearing it, but who's going to see the chip? Whose I.D., who, who's he gonna serve? It is not true that this information is needed to identify people correctly, this information is needed for some completely different purposes. And now I ask you – will the children of the refugees whose parents do not have JMBG get their ID card? Can they have an I.D. without that information that requires the law, and their parents don't have JMBG, Mr. Krstin. Now that's why we asked that provision be abolished. Of course, the story of the chip is very serious, we were engaged in a debate in principle, we're not amendments, we can't prevent it. You'll be chipping us, I guess, as you wish, until we've seen you well when the time comes. But just for objectivity, the data you're defending isn't used to identify citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28370	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin, according to the Rules of Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28371	Ladies and gentlemen, I really enjoy my colleague Nikolic speaking and I think he has what he says and the truth, but there is truth in what I say. So the truth is usually somewhere in between. Do we have a problem with JMBG parents because it's the only reason someone will be followed more than they'll be followed if there's no such thing? Mr Nikolic here has ordered all this information which will be otherwise known; only one if we leave out will be better for those citizens and will not be able to be followed. So that story doesn't hold much water, because there's a dozen data. Could it be a name, a last name, the same address? Well, maybe he can, maybe he can make a mistake at JMBG, but if he does... (Chairman: Please allow the Messenger of the people to speak, and do not disturb him. ) So, if there is any reason to leave this out, what Mr Nikolic said if it is about refugees or exiled persons who do not have JMBG – well, refugees and exiled persons are incorporated into our society, the state of Serbia, or whatever you want, or go back to where they were exiled from and where they escaped from. Whether they're here, whether they're there, they're entering a legal system that requires them to register and get all the numbers. So if they choose to stay here, they'll get a number here, if they don't choose to stay here, they'll get a number there. He'll have a number somewhere. That's no problem. We've accepted that by all the evasive and exiled faces all the documents we give, we've evened them out in all the rights and I don't see that this would be any particular case. I think the evasive faces have the right to receive our documents. And foreign individuals can get our ID under certain conditions, let alone our citizens who have escaped from somewhere. Therefore, that is not the reason why the question is raised here. If they want it, as they get citizenship, so will this number.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28372	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28373	Let's get this straight, since Mr. Kristin is more and more like a Serbian radical. I really like his discussion and it's really argumentative. You have evasive faces that don't want to be incorporated into this society and that's their right. They want to go back to Croatia. You have Croatia that will not receive them and does not allow them to return to their property, because they can enter the EU without it. Then what would you do? So they're never going to get a single number of citizens. Now I ask you, why would the child of a evasive person get a personal card easier than the person who is a Serbian citizen? That's not what the law predicted. He prescribes a procedure for obtaining an ID card and does not say – a child of a fugitive, since he cannot escape a person to provide a unique home number of citizens, he will get a ID card without a unique number of citizens. If there was such an amendment or if the government had put it in the bill, I would have accepted it. Why am I against the unique birth number of parents? It doesn't apply to a person who has a ID card, it has an I.D. The unique number of citizens serves to identify the person they have, not to give the unique number of citizens an identification of another person. What kind of portable connection is that? What does it look like? Looks like one case from my family. My uncle's brother wanted to get a job with the police, and he kept getting a report from the police that his grandfather was killed by partisans. That's the information. So, when a person shows up with a ID, let's see his dad and mom, let's see his unique home number for father and mother, let's see that they're not accidentally in any other political party, that they're not punished father and mother, which again has nothing to do with whoever's wearing the ID card. That's why it's the eyes of the MPs of the SRS. I'm asking for my ID, I'm giving you my data, and I want you to get my data into the chip and into the database, and what my parents have to do with it, so you're asking them for a unique number of citizens for both parents. You're wrong. Let me see that directive that's arrived. Why are they asking us to do that? We're not from some world where terrorism is detached, in which you can't know a person based on identification documents. In our country, this way of records, by the last name of parents, has been going on for 300 years, unlike in Herzegovina, where it has been going on a little bit shorter since the austrougars arrived. With us when you tell Petar Petrovic, you have a gene of these Petrovics, you have all the information on him, you do not need additional identification through parents. If that's the way to fight terrorism, so someone from here in America doesn't go to break and do it, and if that's how they explained it to you, I'm telling you it's not true; the terrorists who knocked down America one day in September came from countries that have more rigorous control than the one we're going to have right now. That's not how you stop it. I have not heard that any Serbian citizen, and especially a Serb, has participated in any terrorist attack that the world, your own, democratic, strong, organized, should fear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28374	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Governments of the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28375	I asked for the words "in English" to be deleted in Article 9. What did the government suggest? "The form of the ID card is printed in Serbian, Cyrillic, and English." Items 2, 3 and 4 specify some variants of this first position, but this "and in English" looks like an artificial, unnecessary, and seems unconstitutional, I must tell you. Why? The I.D. is an official document issued by the State as a means of identification. Since the personal map's overarching purpose in the territory of the state, then we should not learn English for identification and for reading official records of our country, because it would be contrary to the Constitution. You have found a link to this interpretation of the English language in the fact that in Article 1, in addition to the first position where it is well defined: "The ID card is a public document to which the citizen of the Republic of Serbia proves identity", we accept, and you have the attitude 3 that says, "If this is specified by an international contract, the ID card can also serve as a travel document." That's where you put the story about Montenegro, Macedonia, Republika Srpska, maybe tomorrow will be another state in question and you claim that it should allow citizens to use that ID as a passport without those documents that are called our citizen's travel document for abroad or passport, that it actually has the meaning of the passport. Therefore, it is necessary to keep the ID card in English as well. That's where you made a big mistake. I.D. can never be a passport. Another big mistake – where we would have special agreements with a country, if our ID was valid as a travel document, I'm sure it's only those countries where it's officially used Serbian and Cyrillic letters. Not that it is important for one who stands at a border between Serbia and Montenegro if our ID card stands in English; it speaks Serbian, understands Cyrillic. When you cross the Drina, you go with your ID. A new English - language ID can only confuse one and the other service that controls. Why do you need English? You need English to allow anyone who is a foreigner in the country to make an identification of our citizen. Now one of those who is extremely afraid of the fate of the state will say – how is that possible? It's possible. We have a citizen Draskovic, better known in public as Danica Draskovic's husband. He cheated on everyone, and it looks like the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. He made an agreement, on behalf of the state union, with the NATO Pact or who knows with which armed forces, that allowed them to pass through our country. Just to remind you, on the basis of such agreements, some occupier soldiers have trampled on people in Macedonia, and it seems to me that some minister in Macedonia has died. Of course, no one responded to those who stepped on him. You're probably preparing the terrain so that your armor can identify and control our citizens, so it'll be easier for them to get along when they read what's in the box in their native language. In order not to report to experts, I now only limit myself to what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is precise in terms of language and letter. I limit the debate only to point 1, I do not touch attitudes 2, 3 and 4, I did not cover it with an amendment, I only ask that this "and in English" be deleted, because it is written in direct contrast to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When there was a principle debate, in an IQ one tried to be normal so he said – man, turn the passport and look, there's two languages there. Passport is a travel document for abroad, and ID is a means of identifying the country. Our I.D. is recognised by our competent authorities, our diplomatic and consular representations abroad. With our ID in Germany, the Netherlands, there's nothing you can do about England. She doesn't mean anything to them. They need a passport with a Schengen visa. I forgot, Tadic said in the campaign we'd be on that white list in a few months. He probably thought he'd come up on the white list, because I still see that the big ranks are in front of the embassy and the consulate. So, abroad, we're looking for our passport. The form of our passport is regulated by international contracts and since international contracts are prescribed the content of the forms, then all the sections there are in Serbian, English, French. It is an international act that recognised a document issued by a single state and do not compare it to a ID card, which is a public instrument for internal use in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Do not put foreign languages into our public documents for use in the Republic of Serbia. It's unconstitutional. You're breaking the Constitution. If you feel that you need this because based on some bilateral agreement with one of the neighbouring countries, our ID card may also have a passport function, we can only have these bilateral agreements with countries where the Serbian language is used. We can't have some other countries, because these countries don't accept them, because those who surrounded us, who entered a regime, speak their own language, use their own letter and use English. Let me remind you what happened to Romania. A large number of people from Romania used to come to work, provide funds to survive, as Romania is in some economic position. When they entered some integration processes, they were given orders, so a specific visa regime appeared towards our country, so it was set to virtually pay no one. The imports were probably thought of by DOS when he said there would be so many new jobs in Serbia that the existing number of citizens with 100% employment would not satisfy, as there is another 50 per cent of free capacity. Let me remind you a little bit, you know what kind of relationship you're moving in. If you leave the first word "in English", then you do it clearly, obviously, brutally against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and as an excuse for that again use the technological capabilities of equipment provided, which, from the point of view of the parties that exercise power today, was extremely controversial and represented the expression of the top crime of the previous Dossian furniture. We have to remind the public of this, because you can see for yourself, as the day goes on, new information runs, that something from not so far away is not forgotten. Of course, we make sure that the retrograde forces that set the congregation on fire on October 5th do not return. They're retrograde forces that carry destruction. You see how this coalition capacity is reflected. For the sake of coalition capacity, there is no talk of what was allegedly a crime, and in that story someone entered the congregation. Now total amnesia has occurred, not talking about it anymore, but talking about the benefits of new technologies.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28376	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28377	Since MP Zoran Krasic detailed this amendment, I would only warn of another provision of the Constitution under which position 1 and 4 do not comply with the Serbian Constitution, they prejudge solutions from the new constitution, which is a provision on Serbian language. And here it's grammatically misspelled with a Cyrillic letter, the letter is Cyrillic. Indeed, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow you to potentiate the Serbian language in the bill's proposals, because the Constitution knows the Serbian language, and tell the lecturer that the letter is not Cyrillic, but Cyrillic, and tell the secretary of legislation that when we change the Constitution and when the official language is Serbian, then it can also propose and approve it as secretary of legislation, to go before the Assembly. And there's this conflict of yours with the Constitution that I can't understand at all. I especially don't understand the M.O.P.'s conflict with the Constitution. It's a dispute where the Constitution loses. Tell me the state in which the constitution can lose its slow, when the people who are implementing the constitution and the constitution and the people say -- he's lost the constitution, we're right, we want it this way. Anything you want, please follow the procedure provided for in the Constitution. Either do not mention the language if you are ashamed to speak Serbian Croatian, or specify it by a member of the Constitution by which the official language is indeed Serbian. Anyone who thinks it should be different should approach the amendments to the Constitution, not the changes to the law. Of course the English card doesn't mean anything. No one abroad can ID you. And why just the English speech area? There are many official world languages. We could make patterns now, so it opens up like those postcards that are tied up. Where are you from? I'm from Serbia. Here's my postcard.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28378	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140. Article 5 The Rules of Procedure, the Defence and Security Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 10. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 13. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28379	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 and that relating to point 7), and point 7 of this article is the single parent number for parents, which, in addition to other data, the applicant should enter the application for a personal card. The reason for this amendment to delete the unique birth number and point 7) is the name of one of the parents: many Serbian citizens, as a result of the persecution of Serbs from the territory of Republika Srpska and from the territory of the Bosnian-Croatian Federation, have come to the premises of the Serbian state to live, but do not have a unique home number, especially their parents. If it remains as provided for in point 7), it will not meet formal conditions, the request will not be valid and will not be able to issue their ID card. Most of those who have been exiled and expelled from Republika Srpska's territory, from Mostar's space, the left coast of Neretva and other parts, Bihaća and not to speak further, have no opportunity to return to their hearths. Now they need to be made difficult or disabled by issuing a personal card in the Serbian state, in their mother. Watching things happen, they only have Serbia left as a queen, where they can find their place under this sky. An example of how to issue ID cards and what are all these problems: Here, just yesterday in the King I had a complaint with parties, there are huge crowds in front of counters to issue ID cards. For this formal procedure, instead of the MUP having most of the data, since there is an electronic processing and networking of Serbia's MUP has long been applied, citizens should personally document and bring evidence of changes to the address and are checked out from an earlier address, even being forced to bring in persons they live in and are registered with or persons they log out of. Those persons must personally make statements to the clerk, i.e. in front of Serbia's MUP counter. It's a huge crowd, and instead of Serbia's MUP, based on all the data it has on its records, they're looking for... Here's an example from Nis: a checkout was filed in Nis seven days ago, and there's evidence of a sign-off from the MUP to Nis, a change of address for the King. Yesterday, the party is asked to bring in evidence that it's been checked out. Looking at this time when this ID bill is proposed and the costs invested to buy personal card equipment, it is inappropriate time not to talk about the amounts that have been spent or will be spent paying for this equipment. We heard here from the minister that it's over 200m euros for equipment only. Since I am a member of the Finance Committee, just two years ago, and the current Minister Jocic, as well as Minister Dinkic, former Interior Minister Mihajlovic, has concluded more contracts for the purchase of equipment from abroad for more than 250m euros, without this equipment for making ID cards. When talks were held on the Committee on Finance, what about those contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the Law on Budgets 2002 and 2003, it was said that these contracts cannot be broken, as the state would suffer huge damage. No one answered, and no procedure was initiated to close such contracts. These reasons why the I.D. law now, why this type of I.D. card with a microchip, citizens cannot understand and accept, because this law and the issue of this I.D. will not necessarily prevent terrorism as it is said here in the explanation, and especially organised crime. Everything that happens to us starts with these sporting events, and not to mention other events, as the MP authorities say is at high risk, clearly states what state of crime is in Serbia. When he is unable to oppose this street, hooligan crime on the street, at sports events and high-risk events, he will then oppose organised crime. The former Interior Minister Mihajlovic's White Paper on 25 organised crime groups in Serbia, so after the "Sabbe" action that there is no more organised crime, so all this allegedly taken up by the establishment of this special department of the Belgrade District Court with a special prosecutor, it clearly says that this government with the MUP, the Ministry of Justice, the Republic District Prosecutor's Office, municipal prosecutors and competent courts is not able to adequately oppose organised crime. On the contrary, we have portfolios, or pi-ar as they like to say, now courts. All the actions that take place in any court should be the subject of statements by these spokesmans, without speaking to many others who engage in parts of court proceedings, especially criminal cases, and that the epilogue or judicial verdict has not been in one case for many years. The price of that special court, the special prosecutor's office is too high and too high, and for almost no result. Also, what is now offered to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, to issue a new ID card, will not help the citizens of Serbia. In addition to this which will have extra costs, huge crowds in front of the counters, with a new ID card they will not live better than worse and worse every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28380	The word of the messenger of the people is Mark Krstin, and then the messenger of the people is Sredodi Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28381	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would agree with my colleague in the constitution that it is very difficult to get a personal card in Serbia. In the principle debate, we all agreed that the process of issuing a ID card must be largely simplified and people must meet to get their ID card as easily as possible. In doing so, we must not forget that for the majority of young people, the first serious contact with the state authority is the issue of a personal card. That contact must not be traumatic for four or five hours. I have to tell you that in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Pancheva, Zrenjanin and other major cities, when you ask citizens what's the hardest for them to wait for, wait in line in the SUP, get their ID card, register cars, etc. Come on when they register the car, but everyone's obliged to have ID. The main task of the state administration, and in this case of the MUP, would have to be to minimise the process of issuing a ID card. The idea is too high: why look for a copy of the birth certificate and the belief of citizenship, when in the matrimonials, with the parent authorities in the municipalities, and all the information we have. Our organs are interlinked and can be checked very quickly. We make citizens wait there and wait there, and pay taxes and take a number. Let's say, in Novi Sad, you take the number, it works at seven o'clock, if you come in at half-eight, you get the number 45. In doing so, they're working two counters of a possible four, and I'm telling you from experience the other day. So, out of four, two counters work, and then the clerks from the counter have to go in the back and check out some data that they look at. I can tell you, more than six can't get through on one counter. Now imagine when the number 45 guy comes in line. I suggest to the MUP, they're here to do something right now, because it's going to be of great importance to the citizens and they're going to feel that the administration is helping them. We have adopted here a strategy on state administration, according to which the administration should do services to citizens and make citizens feel like a service. If citizens come to the MUP, the SUP, and they wait there for four hours, then it's not good services for citizens, because it's not good for citizens. It's a very important thing in the application of this law, to solve this issue through the application of the law. This can be resolved by a sublegal act of the minister and does not require any special authority to issue an order on how to do so. Get in touch with the parent and check, make an insight into their database, find out who the citizen is, and there's no need for citizens to pay a fee, because the tax on citizenship and for a copy of the birth certificate is about 400 or 500 dinars, plus the ID form 200 dinars, so someone doesn't have that money, and it's his obligation to have a ID card. Do everything you can to make it easier for citizens to get their ID. There's something else I wanted to say about this amendment. So it's the same situation with the parents' name, he's complaining about it, and that's kind of a concept difference, if that information is necessary, let him go with it. No amendment was made to Article 16 and is related to the discussion, i.e. this amendment. So the question has been raised that one who doesn't have a single home number, because it's here as a evasive or exiled face. This situation is being resolved by a member of the 16th term – the determination of the unique number of citizens in the event that the number is not determined. The member says, "If the process of issuing a ID card determines that a citizen who is not born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does not have a registered residence is not a unique home number of citizens, the competent authority is obliged", it is very good that he is obliged, "that when issuing the identity card, the citizen determines that number, in accordance with the law". So, whoever wants to get it, and avoids or exiles, the internal affairs authorities are obliged to determine its number. The unique number of citizens under the law alone cannot be an obstacle for a citizen in Serbia, regardless of where he came from, to exercise his right, including our citizens who have been expelled from other republics and who have come here by force.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28382	The word of the messenger of the people is Sredoiah Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28383	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs, there have been a lot of discussions here and apparently some of them didn't know the matter they discussed, and now Mr. Kristin has explained something about that unique birth number. So, the unique birth number is your foundation and it is necessary at all around all records, not just about personal data, which you're talking about, because it needs to be integrated into everything that you've mentioned, meaning what you've been talking about, waiting on those counters, it's all going to be solved when we're all recorded, when it's fully up-to-date of all our citizens. And as for the protection of those data that are not all transparent, available, it is the protection that will protect my colleagues who will know who can have some insight into some data and who can't. It's very important, not just for the criminal record you're talking about, because they're important too, and nobody's ashamed to tell us who his father and mother are, where his parents are from. And that's exactly how it's supposed to get, that's what Mr. Kristin explained now. So I called to say that everyone has to have that number, because that code says something about you, unequivocally identifies you, and no one can have that number except you, only you own that number. So one on one, and there's no dilemma, and we have to do it. It also allows you to quickly identify in case of a car accident, so that they can identify you as a blood type, of which you suffer, or not to say because of some other situations, it's not just because the number is needed. That number follows you as the name and last name that follows you, but your number unequivocally identifies you as a person; of course it is connected to other branches, with other databases for which someone will be able to have data, and someone will not be able to see you, but it is a matter of protection and it will be regulated. As far as the ID law is concerned, we're already very late and I think this law is very good and we need to adopt it as soon as possible, not just because of Europe. There have been some discussions, they say, we have the parent books, and some ends have no parent books. So we want some criminals released in advance to know something about them. So we should do what's transparent, what's possible and what no one will be ashamed to say his name, who's his father and mother, because I don't think it's controversial. Data will be memorized and protected by some software protections and not everyone can look at them, but if you need anything, some service, you will be able to activate them and make them transparent. I don't see what the problem is, because this is a technical law, and we should take it from here, and I don't see any dilemma, we can just fix something, if you know something professional about saying, what would make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28384	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 15th and all other members mentioning the word "minister" the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. I'm sorry, before you go, I'm just gonna give you one notice, and it's all about everybody. Please, under Article 85, paragraphs 1 and 4, we're going to be working today until the search ends in the details of the item on the agenda at 1800 hours, and tomorrow we won't be working, there won't be a session, in that sense we won't be working. The session will continue on Thursday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, you were required to do so this morning by a colleague of Radet, but you did not then chair to ensure the presence of Minister Jocic here today. I am now talking about the amendment where the word "minister" is mentioned, or it is given the authority to prescribe a form that is the accompanying application when applying for a ID card, and if the minister was prevented from coming today, then you could still postpone the session, as for some of your known reasons tomorrow the Assembly will not work. Whether he went to London, or here or there, it really means nothing to us, nor does it matter to the MPs who directly address him, because he is the only one here in the situation, with all respect to the Lord present, to answer our remarks. We would very much like to conduct a professional and quality debate and to convince the minister that this law, which was inherited from the past, from the time of Dusan Mihajlovic, is prepared with all the accompanying equipment and with all the contracts, pre-contracts, by the former DOS government, therefore, something that does not need Serbian citizens and that it is a law with uncertain to the end of the financial structure. These days, as we started to talk about this law, as well as all the other colleagues and I have been reported by many citizens, especially those whose ID card is due these days, or the time limit for the exchange of ID cards, and they asked me what to do. Of course, I have instructed them, as they themselves know, to go to the parent MUP in their place, to file a request, to get a personal card as before, but this is an opportunity to tell them once again, maybe they forgot, not to pay attention, that the law would take effect on the eighth day of publication, but that its application would only follow six months from that period. As I said, it will not be six months before the change of power in Serbia, to fundamental changes and to the possibility that radicals propose laws to the MPs, and we would not propose such a law, not just because they were conflicting opinions in many countries around the planet Earth, when it comes to this law. Big protests, such as those at the end of the 1990s in Greece, and then in Great Britain, there was the largest controversy in the professional circles around it, so here's the opportunity for Jocic, if he went there, to ask some colleagues why they were against the law and why they did not accept after months and years of so-called public debate. It wasn't here. I told you already, that former police minister Dusan Mihajlovic arranged the job, the job was inherited by Dragan Jocic, the agreed way of buying equipment, and no one asked the citizens about it, the law in its largest part, therefore, because of the new way of identifying, setting and how in the domain of human rights, but you have no interest in human rights at all, you have shown this in many cases. How can one of you expect to protect the human rights of citizens when you violate all human rights of individuals by arresting innocent people and keeping them in prison for months? I'm talking to the authorities, so you don't replicate after me, Mr. Markovic, I'm always talking to those who are in power. Thus, Mr. Djogo and Mrs. Ljiljana Vaskovic and her two children in the District Prison and many others were declared General Mladic's flocks. And at the same time as you're pushing for the fight against terrorism, and as a law and as it promotes human rights, you have unidentified dangerous persons walking around Serbia's cities. I am really sorry that Dragan Jocic is not here, to ask him if he is familiar with the movements of dangerous criminals in Serbia. One of these I saw a few days ago, not personally but I learned from the local media, in Kragujevac several televisions reported that one of the biggest and most dangerous criminals, who was also an associate of foreign intelligence services and top associate Carla del Ponte on the false charge of Serbian heroes, Zoran Stankovic, was walking around Kragujevac a few days ago. Even, I mean, I'm going to check that information, get into a circle of the Purpose Product Factory. This man, with one disastrously bad biography, what I have cited are only some segments of this man's dirty biography, could not come as a representative of the executive government, but as a citizen with a name and name, who has no authority and who could not give any promises to the Kragujevac employees or employees of the "Foreign", or the military, or anyone. This should be done by the police minister and to see who these moving people are, and he and the one, Vuk Draskovic, and for this Stankovic, it's so obvious. There's been a tragedy, as it happened a few days ago with another soldier, he goes out and calls a press conference and talks to the public. On whose behalf does he do it? Who is this man? A man who has committed numerous crimes, but only later on when the fundamental change of government in the country comes. Now here this way and method, as Aligrudić did 15 days ago, so today fellow Zivkovic, in an attempt to convince the public and us MPs, by showing payment cards from banks, that this chip is similar to the one that will exist on the ID card... First, you shouldn't brag about it, because the country is over-indebted over these payment cards, we'll soon be in a situation where every average Serb's dream is like that average Canadian's dream to get rid of the extra payment cards. Because you heard the data this morning, and it was officially published by the NBS, that the current debt of each Serbian resident is on average, employed by whoever could have taken those loans, 850 euros. We are slowly entering debt slavery, or we are already in it. You deal with 154 billion dinars at this point, citizens owe on credit, you get in, you get out, and you're done. You're really done, because it's amazing what people have to do to survive. We now want a system for introducing new identification, or ID cards, which many more developed, more economically stable countries have rejected. The motive for which the UK did so was not just economic. They were going to assess whether it would cost 10.6 or 19.2 billion pounds. Yet their experts in the field of combating international terrorism were more concerned with the issue, and that is the key thing to think about, that this card and that you think it's complete security and the database that it's going to be stored is not safe at all. They have proven this on numerous examples and said that terrorists who have carried out the largest number of terrorist actions in the world in recent years, such as the Spanish subway case, such as other subway cases in the UK, have come from countries where ID cards exist. They have no problem copying the most modern and sophisticated identification, or ID card, to perfection. This was understood by the most famous banks in the world; Australia's Commonwealth Bank is to prevent the counterfeits of its payment cards from going to the point where the most modern technology makes these payment cards. But it turns out, that's always the way it is, I guess you know, that those who aim to make a counterfeit fall into the database, wear it, abuse it, etc., whether, for the purposes of terrorism, for some other purpose, undermining the system in which we live, always aim to bring down what's most perfect. That's how you feel about these hackers. They won't get into systems that suck. Today there are 15, 16-year-olds who break into some programs that you think about or individuals, some of us who learn it one way or another, or faster or later learn to use... That's why they realized, when those "comnow" payment cards appeared on the Singapore market for just a few dollars, that nothing was protected so much. The man is protected by his identity, we need to talk about how to define that identity, and it's not this way. There was a lot of controversy in public. I don't know if you, fellow Members of Parliament who belong to the ruling structures, were interested in what was said about the adoption of this law in the last 15 days. I was at least on three or four televisions and in radio shows I followed the comments of experts, people who were gathered at the Truth Association, who published this brochure, "For a Life Without a Stamp", who absolutely did not write anything trendy. But according to materials, and protecting the privacy of the person, the international conventions on respect for human rights, everything that was the subject of analysis and the British ministry, and of Greek and all others who did not accept ID cards, they gave through one parallel display here, with a special reference to that, since the brochure was made in 2004, that this was the project of Dusan Mihajlovic and the previous dossal authorities, but already agreed, which you inherited and which you intend to implement. You don't even know how much it costs. You really don't know how much Serbian citizens are going to cost; at the moment our economic indicators are the worst possible you're going into one of these projects. These ID cards with the biometric chip are voluntary in the UK, but everyone will have to take out a passport in 2010, anyone who takes out a passport, to take out a ID card like that. This is the case with them, however, and this current outgoing government has realised that because of the protests of people and because of this clause it must change, that is, if there is a change in the relationship of forces, as we expect to see Serbia come. As much as it costs us in billions of euros or dinars, however you like, I asked the minister last time, he didn't answer me, and we really promise the citizens of Serbia that all these laws that are harmful and that are not inapplicable, which cost a lot of citizens and that they hide a number of other dangers, by the arrival of Serbian radicals, will put us out of force. It is the only way to improve the situation in Serbia and whenever people ask us at these numerous gatherings and stands, regardless of what is the area of social life, we tell them so. We have no other way to prevent the damage already suffered from 5 October to today through a series of laws proposed by various, those previous and current ministers from this short DOS. Simply, people who want good Serbia and who have a sense of what citizens need will not engage in some projects that detest the general public. You haven't asked, and even if you asked in those places where you live, you've been selected on this unique electoral list of your party, many of you, or their political parties, won't be able to make up to 2% in the next election because you count on what you care, what you've done. To us, who are the coming political force and responsible people, is to change it and make sure we have to do it. We didn't convince you, we didn't convince you that hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia today have no citizenship. These are the people spoken of by Mr Nikolic, who have some serial number, some number I don't even know what it means; when they were exiled from their hearths, they came only with that legitimacy here. They don't own JMBG, and as such they can't appear under this law, nor at all ask to get an ID card. You gentlemen are not in a situation, since you are not authorized to give up the bill. Who knows how many times we'll have to call on the MPs to not accept it in the day of the vote. It's not Serbia's most important now, we've functioned as a state and with this model of ID, and since it's already the main segment of the fight against terrorism, which has rejected all these anti-terrorist organizations as a completely pointless reason to introduce it, especially in Great Britain, because you know that it's no problem for them to go through counterfeiting, or through various methods come in, don't God, that they're doing terrorist acts somewhere, then leave that thinking for a while later. But your time and how it stands out, so you'll be able to think about it later only as former MPs and politicians who have one day proposed bad laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28386	Thank you. Any other MPs? MP Vladimir Humane, come in. I have personal reasons, of course, but when it comes to time, I use this clock, and when it comes to a date, it's not a personal reason, I use a calendar. Everyone knows the reason, what tomorrow is. Here you go, Mr. Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28387	Thank you, Mr. President. We've heard a lot about the presentation of my colleague Jovanovic. As one of my colleagues said, from Gok Gög to Singapore and back we heard all sorts of things. I would like to commend some of the views of my colleague Jovanovic. In fact, she compared the citizens of Serbia to the citizens of Canada, which is very nice. I hope we will have a better standard than the citizens of Canada and I am glad that the SRS respects the attitudes and opinions of many European countries, such as, say, England, Greece, etc., because you brought here to support the fact that such proposals about the ID card were rejected in Greece and England. I'm glad you're saying that, and I hope you're also supporting some of the other views of these European countries and others. It's one big turn in the SRS policy. I'm a little surprised, but I'm glad. As for the payment cards and these ID cards, I don't see the resemblance around these chips, and as to whether the citizens are in charge, over-indebted or not, so you know what, until a few years ago, the Serbian citizens couldn't even think of taking any credit. Now they can decide whether they want to take a loan or not, it's on them, no one makes them do it. Even representatives of the National Bank of Serbia warn that loans are so easy to play with, they must return. So it doesn't matter if the chips are similar or they're the same, they're built into these ID cards and they can't be so easily forged, nor can they be changed by some code. I don't know, since the SRS is against these modern technologies, maybe even against the digitron and the computers, if you come to power, maybe you'll give us back our computers and our work, but for now it's what it is. As for the Serbian citizens' protest, here really in front of the government, there are major protests in front of the Assembly of Serbian citizens about the adoption of the law on the ID card, they don't calm down, there are really big protests in all cities, so we need to consider whether this law is going to be passed. Of course, I'm kidding, Serbian citizens have nothing against this law, except for a couple of SRS MPs who talk here about citizens' protests over the law. Indeed, none of this is happening in Serbia. This amendment, as well as all the amendments you mentioned in which the word "ministerism" is changed, etc. The law should be rejected, of course, and passed, because it's a modern law and we have to go to meet, we are already in the 21st century, but with all the other solutions to meeting modernization. So both this law and everyone else that goes that way I personally and party G17 plus truly support it. I don't see anything wrong with that, and I don't see why it would be so much harder to forge a ID card that's on a card that's on a chip. Today many of the citizens who have a computer and... Whether the ID card is on a chip or a chip on a ID card, it really doesn't now correct me, but what's on the current ID card is typed with a paper typewriter and it's very easy to photocopy color with photocopiers, or even in home work can be scanned and printed with a color printer that looks exactly the same as the original, so it's much easier to forge a personal map now, than it's going to be easy to forge this new one that's being in circulation. I call on the citizens of Serbia not to be afraid of anything, not to believe these threats, this really is one thing to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28388	Thank you, Mr. Humane. Is it incorrectly interpreted? Well, we all know digitron isn't some technology, I understand it's a lapus, I guess. Here you are, right on the line, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28389	You are not here, Mr Markovic, to interpret what MPs from your former parliamentary group are saying unprepared for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28390	Ms. Jovanovic, I am here to decide on Article 104, paragraph 4, whether I am giving the right to a replica, because it is exclusively the right of the President of the Assembly, and when I decide on something before that, I am thinking and listening carefully to what is said. It would be rude to decide otherwise. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28391	Have you thought about it? Am I entitled to a replica? (President: Here, I gave you 30 seconds ago a word. ) I was talking about biometric documents as a method of preventing terrorism, and I have long followed what our professional public is saying and, again, in a number of media appearances, people who have been invited to talk about it because they have followed how this has been solved in the world, what resistances they have been. You don't think any SRS MP is unprepared for a session. That's all you can do is come in and go out for a walk, you know what the law is or not. We know at any moment about anything that's being discussed here what everyone's thinking about on the planet, and on those in Asia, and in Africa, and in Western Europe, and in Latin America, but we're the only ones who can do it. They told us not only at all costs, but they said, "So fulfill this request, and fulfill it." No, but what happens in those countries and which are less developed countries in the world that have not accepted the biometric method of identification. And it's not at all that people have never had a ID card, so now they have to get it, so it's the greatest blessing they've ever received from Kostunica's government, Dinkic, Jocic and the other ministers. No, we have our way, which has remained since that communist era, the issue of ID cards, and that way so far has been subject to abuse, but no more than biometric identification cards, this new ID card. It is estimated that the number of inhabitants of 30 million people who have issued biometric ID cards is 10 to 15%. Now, as far as technology is concerned, the promotion of what you are, and what we are, I'm not going to say anything to you, Mr. Humane, because I'm much more prepared for this law and I've brought a lot more information to the public and the people of the Ministry, which I might further convince these arguments. And the look itself speaks of all of us. Here, you were just behind the pay phone, I'm now, let people judge who's going to a new age and who's for that time and for the future, you or me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28392	Thank you. This was a replica. You, I take it, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28393	I don't argue that you look much nicer and better than I do. (President: Excuse me, you're mutually on "you"? I said "you." (President: Excuse me, please. Since it started with a private tone both by Miss Jovanovic and by you, it is my duty to check it out. I don't know what I caused Miss Jovanovic to bring such a personal note into this debate. I say, you look much better. I wear a "Nicolas" suit, and you, who so often cries over the fate of the Serbian people, have models, change clothes every day. I've been watching, of course. What I have observed is that you take great care of the fate of the Serbian people, but therefore take more care of your incomes and how you dress and where you dress. So, the finest suits, the finest wardrobes and sets, the most expensive, and here you cry over the fate of the Serbian people. That's what you need to know and say.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28394	In the future, in addition to the compliments they make to each other, I will not let them talk about private life. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28395	So, a colleague here said that in the debate, Jovanovic noticed a shift in SRS policy, because we are now accepting the attitudes of some European countries, so the SRS, it said, against modern technologies, has counted something in modern technology that has long ceased to be modern. Of course, that's the man's level. It is indeed high time for the citizens of Serbia to laugh at this speaker, to insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens and to talk about the SRS as a party that is against modern achievements and technology, etc., it is indeed inappropriate. For those of you who don't know, and it seems that there are several of them in this room, to remind you, the SRS was founded by Professor Vojislav Seselj, the youngest doctor of science at the time, in the former SFRY. Today and in the meantime... Of course, we are ready whenever you want to measure diplomas, and intelligence, and the average rating in studies, etc., but unlike you, we do not call MPs experts; MPs are elected to the people, the structure of the citizens of Serbia corresponds. So in the SRS parliamentary group are MPs of all social structures, all educational structures, members of several nationalities. The Serbian Radical Party is proud of such a parliamentary group. As for the observation that we will have a higher standard than Canada, that it is reportedly said by Natasa Jovanovic, of course, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia will also have a higher standard than Canada, but when there is not what I am about to read to you. "Once known criminal Djokic Djordje, otherwise member of G17 Plus, used the sudden resignations of two directors appointed by the Serbian government and with the help of the phantom board of directors, as well as his cousin Bozidar Milovanovic, president of the Association of Belgrade, for a long time since PIK Zemun tried to kidnap 300 ha of the country, surprised everyone and managed to push himself into the position of PIK Zemun director. Djokic Djordje is known for a number of affairs, and the biggest one happened in Cačka, which was also convicted of economic crime and was soon banned from acting as director or chairman of the board of directors" etc. So when we clear up with cases like this, which will be after the next election, then we'll be like Canada and better than Canada. And this Djokic Djordje told Radio "Focus" that it was true that he was responsible for the crime of economic crime, but said someone set it up for him. Djokic Djordje also told Radio Focus that he came to be CEO of PIK Zemun without the intention of doing anything in the company, without the intention of making any progress at all, etc. And he says, "I'm just here to prepare a privatisation company." Those poor workers when PIC Zemun prepares Djokic Djordje, a criminal from G17 Plus for privatisation. Now about the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, paragraph 1, and I have suggested that point 2 be deleted in that position. The 19th member has a title, like all members of this government, Kostunica - Dulic, it's a newspaper, we talked about it these days, it's a title – Ban of using a ID card, and then it's a release of a new ID card. Article 19 says, "The holder must not use the ID card," and then says in which cases, "if his personal data in Article 7(2) of this Act have been changed". This is fine, especially it would be fine if article 7 were the way we Serbian radicals modified it. I'll put 2 in particular, because it's about the amendment. The third point says: "if the ID card is damaged or for any other reason it does not serve its purpose", it is good to do so; "if he finds out afterwards that the wrong information was entered into his ID card. "This is a bit of a problem, although we haven't had an amendment intervention. How can someone later learn that false information was entered into his identity card? I guess every time I pick up my I.D., he looks at what it says on that I.D. If it's an illiterate face, then ask to be read to him by what it says. It's a little illogical for someone to find out later that he's a different name, that he was born the second day, that he was born in another place. I think this is also an attack on the intelligence and insult of the Serbian citizens' intelligence, but let it be to you, it's not the first time. He says, "The identity card holder is required to apply for the issue of a new ID card within 15 days of the day of the performance of one of the reasons set out in Article 1." All right, that too. Now let me go back to point 2), whose erasure I suggested, which says, "if the photo on the ID card no longer fits his appearance." This is so general and it doesn't mean anything, it's amazing. What does it mean that the photo on the I.D. doesn't match the look? Does this mean that every hair dye means a new ID card, every change in hairstyle of a new ID card? You know, then some people would just stand there on the counter, especially ladies, and at any moment change their ID card, every new hair color, every new bow in their hair, every new haircut -- a new ID card. This cannot stay and should be deleted, the identity card should have a certain duration, in which normal estimates do not allow for any more drastic changes in physical appearance, at least not so much that the face cannot be identified compared to the photo on the ID card. This should be deleted, because this is one of the ways you take money, to make people change IDs every day and hour, because later we'll come to that member, predicting that you don't charge taxes, but only the cost of issuing ID cards. The cost of issuing IDs is significantly higher than the administrative fees, so you've tried nicely to trick Serbian citizens. Now the government says why it does not accept my amendment – since it is quite possible that, within a time of importance, there may be drastic changes in the appearance of the cardholder, so using a personal card containing an inadequate photo could significantly make it difficult to verify and verify his identity, which in practice is most often done by visually comparing the photos and looks of the holder, because this process is not possible when it comes to other biometric data. So, in point 2) of Article 19, the position of Article 1 is written, only a little bit regulated in legal norm, which is written in an explanation of why my amendment is not accepted, then even such an attitude could survive in this article, because you wrote in your explanation – if there is a drastic change in this period of validity of the ID card, if these changes are such that the identity of the person cannot be determined. It is, therefore, concrete in some ways and in this way regulated this attitude may well survive. So in general -- if the photo doesn't match his appearance, this really can't survive. I'll remind you of an article from "Blica" since 17 November 2003, when a certain Mr. Thomas Soke, director of the Biometry Department at the company Motorola, told us that we Serbs are a happy people that Motorola has put in us for expensive money that no one in Europe will buy, because no one in Europe will copy it, as you want Serbian citizens and then here you say that it doesn't bother citizens. Of course, none of us said there were protests here in Serbia, but we talked about where everything in the world was protesting these chips and this kind of way of making ID cards, but we're with the citizens of Serbia every day and we claim it's true that the citizens of Serbia are afraid of this way of making ID cards. Says this Mr. Thomas Soke, enthusiastically speaking that Serbia, a dying country, is at least in the most advanced in Europe, in police control of its population. His words are – Serbia introduces the most advanced system for identifying citizens and issuing personal documents in Europe and one of the best in the world. The EU and other countries are moving towards biometric documents, i.e. automatic identification of fingerprints or persons, but Serbia is in front of them. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, Serbia is behind a lot of the advanced countries of Europe and really shouldn't have been the first in what everyone in Europe is avoiding. It is also interesting, from that time on, to comment that all citizens, said one official of the then MUP, a representative of the group with whom those who are mentally defending the law these days and negotiating some joint performances in the future, all citizens, he says, will be the same in front of the state, abuses in advance have been disabled. All data on the card is encryptedly protected, so their secrecy is guaranteed. Besides, after fully informing the MUP business, there won't be a problem over the line. Imagine what progress for so much money. The national database, this is very interesting, will be linked to international systems, and the visa regime will be greatly facilitated. What visa regime? Does this mean as soon as we get the chips that we get the visas? Of course, for the public, that doesn't mean that. Of course, this can't be any protection against terrorism, no protection from crime, no progress in the communication of citizens and the MUP. Here's a colleague from another parliamentary group, who doesn't belong to the SRS, well said that the MUP should improve its communication with citizens, in the sense that it shouldn't wait, a colleague said for hours, I would say for days, to get a proper document in the MUP. You have failed to connect all citizens of Serbia into one system, so that in every place in Serbia you can take a copy of the parent book and trust in citizenship. In this way you would help the citizens of Serbia, thus providing a single voter list. When the Serbian government is here to represent some laws, it will have the support of the SRS. But there's nothing to do. You today, if you were born in Nis, living in Belgrade, in the meantime living in Valjevo, you must go to Nis, for the second in Valjevo, for the third in Belgrade where you live today. So, you've done nothing to improve citizens' relations in the use of MUP services, you haven't done a civil service in Serbia's MUP, as you haven't done in any of the municipalities where you do power, as it isn't in Belgrade, where you rule along with these yellow thieves... (President Radojko Obradovic: Time. )......................................................................................................... and these are the reasons why we cannot accept this law and why we are trying to direct the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of Kostunica - Dulic, and Minister Jocic and his ministry to take their work seriously these few months as long as they have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28396	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic reported. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, wanting to inform the Minister of some of the important things that are happening in Serbia, but I can do the same to you. Namely, we have received information, the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia has paid the PP Spectre plus From the Shop, Radio "Gong" The Store paid 600,000 dinars for promoting the integration of the Roma community into the Trade System. According to the statistical institution, there are no members of the Roma ethnic group or of the Roma nationality in the Shop according to the latest census. I have great respect for the Roma in every place, both in Bujanovac and Zemun and elsewhere, but this has nothing to do with the protection of the Roma, this has to do with a clean robbery, and please check it out. I brought another important thing I wanted to read to you. So, a very important thing because of the abuse of the position of certain state officials. In an action to collect signatures for an initiative to ban SRS, the City Committee of Kragujevac G17 plus collected 4,850 signatures. Out of that number, only 400 signatures were collected at a bar called "Balkan". The remaining part, 4,500 signatures were collected as follows: the action is organized by MLM model i.e. all members of the party's bodies, all appointed and appointed and elected persons, as well as members of the boards of directors and supervisors, have received the required number of votes to be raised. Among other things, Customs Manager 75 signatures, etc. And now I'm warning you, since I'm counting on you to be in charge of this, we're trying to depolitize the state authorities and that's where professionals work. I will read you the last sentence, the last paragraph: "The action did not take part in the participation of the district chief Miroslav Marinkovic, he did not even come to the party to pick up forms, although he was called several times by the party's secretary." He'll be making progress, and he looks like an honorable man. "National MP Snezana Pantic-Aksentjevic, who told the secretary that she has no time and that she cannot collect the signatures, has also not taken the forms. The director," and now I ask you to listen, "the apothecary institutions of Mirjana Josimovic have taken over the forms, but has not submitted any signatures, although she said she allegedly collected only six signatures, can no longer collect. Unlike the other set-up persons who have fulfilled the quota, so listen to who has fulfilled the quota, "head of the House of Health 80 signatures, Head of Customs 75, Director of the Treasury 70 signatures. "I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is this what there is in "Suspecting Face" at Nusic, where this is on the globe, is that what the competent state authorities are for, does this, Mr. Obradovic, if you are behind me, serves as a customs office, does this serve as a vault, does it serve as a pharmacy, does this serve as a health home, Mr. Obradovic? This isn't me, this is with the original signature. I brought you the original signature, and I'm going to give the copy to someone else. With original signature, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Zdravković, G17 plus in Kragujevac, Sirena Street No. 15, 34000 Kragujevac Street, Phone and Fax 034/301-017. His original signature. I expect you to report to us during the day, Mr. Obradovic, you and the competent state authorities, what you have done against those persons, because I am sure that no one in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agrees with this, unrelated to which political party they belong, unrelated to whom they belong. I'm sure no one thinks the customs chief was supposed to do that, that no one thinks the director of the pharmacy should do this, that the director of the health care facility should do this. That's why Serbian citizens want to change, and that's why Serbian citizens want the customs chief to chase criminals and thieves, to help the health care directors, to see that the directors of the pharmacy institutions will help the other patients as much as possible, not to deal with this. Unfortunately, I fear that in Serbia we are all in such a difficult situation that we can explain something like this. Serbian citizens, I'm sure, will know in the upcoming elections anytime... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, Mr. Obradich, to give their assessment of what I've been talking about. One more thing to tell you. It's not only insolent and insolent, it's talking about why they're uniting. They unite, ladies and gentlemen, because of this and only because they should continue to have customs officers, directors of apothecary institutions, health directors who will not treat citizens, who will not help citizens, but will also help to collect signatures for the ban on parties. Woe to Serbia with those in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28398	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, any MP may request specific information during the session. I will also pass this on to the President of the National Assembly, and I expect you to receive an answer in the afternoon session when the President of the National Assembly will chair. The word is Miloljub Albianic, head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28399	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Alexander Vukic has no other business with him, but he carries with him every day a bunch of fake papers, waving, as if the citizens of Serbia had not seen your intentions. Lies, demagogues, untrues, hate language, chauvinism, national hatred cannot be governed by politics. Tolerance, democracy, respect for another, normal political life in Serbia cannot be built. It just can't. It is clear to you that the action initiated by the G17 Plus party has also been given a wider situation from political parties, NGOs, a prominent extra-party figure, have also been involved, and this has surpassed the framework of a political party. That is why you feel bad for the assembly speaker trying to place different false demagogy on Serbian citizens. By this you became recognizable, because in the last 15 years when you ask anyone in Serbia what the Serbian Radical Party has done well in Serbia, there is no single answer. When you ask what's wrong, there's as much as you want. Remember the rusty spoons and the waving of the gun and the beatings of the educators, the students, remember the pull of the microphone, the watering of the chairman in the Assembly, the carrying out of the Assembly, the different kinds of circuses you used to make here. If you remember when you took part in the government what it means, they will remember that you were the Minister of Information when you passed a famous law where you threw different types of editorials out on the street, looted their property, arrested journalists, persecuted etc. That's what people remember from your time. Or that famous Law of the University when you threw teachers out of the classroom to teach outside, outside the door, and you chased the students, beat them, and what you didn't do there, the circus you did here in Serbia. And you're gonna give someone a lecture today and yell? From that big policy of yours, Karlovac-Carlobag-Ogulin-Virovica you have left, or that Tesla secret weapon, or we will drink Clay, is so, if this or that happens, you are left with only – hold the thief. For what? What does that mean to you to keep yelling - you're holding a thief. What is it about your personal character or the character of your party? That is why the whole action was launched to make once and for all a line between past times and times of democracy, tolerance, respect and what comes to Serbia and what you cannot resist, however bad your language sounded for the assembly speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28400	Time. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic, a replica, mentioned in the presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28401	For the sake of truth, I have to tell the citizens of Serbia that every time Mr. Albianic goes through this little threat, he thinks he's gonna scare someone. I avoid it, people know that I'm timid and that I'd have big problems with Mr. Albianic, but I always tend not to say that any of the radicals would cause anything in any way. I find it interesting to listen to Mr. Albianic. I find it interesting, but I haven't heard the answer to what's been falsified here and what's demagogy. I said it was a lie. I'm ready, gentlemen, to bring you this and see if this was signed by Dr Nebojsa Zdravkovic or not. If he didn't sign Dr. Nebojsa Zdravkovic, I'm going to jail for slander. If he signed Dr Nebojsa Zdravkovic, then Albianic goes to prison and solve the problem. There's no big philosophy. Here, ladies and gentlemen, is something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28402	Please allow the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28403	We've heard dozens of times here: the past, some of Tesla's secret weapons; I don't know when someone mentioned Tesla's secret weapon, I heard that he mentioned Zeljko Raznatović Arkan, and I didn't know that he was so close to you and I don't know what he had to do with you. I assume you've been doing something with him and you know something about it. It has nothing to do with us. I don't know what else you've been saying about some things that are pointless, and as far as the politics we've been running are concerned, we've paid the price in the election, we've lost the election, we've recognised the election results, and you've ruled ever since. That's what we want for you. I won't answer to you personally, I won't tell you anything, I won't insult you, I won't think of it. I went out for this pay phone to talk about the abuse of state institutions. You said it right, this is one bigger action and it is wider, because G17 plus can't collect 5,000 or 10,000 signatures, which we collect in five minutes. So, you had to include customs office, drugstores, health homes, vaults, and I don't know what. Since you are not ashamed, these are the institutions of the Serbian citizens, these are the institutions of this state, they should not serve our mutual disputes. Come to the Assembly and say, you are the forces of chaos and madness, you who are responsible for hyperinflation, for the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. It's not us, it's your coalition partners, to remind you, because we were then in prisons, and Voja Seselj and Toma Nikolic, and those who support you were then in power, but I see, you don't mind being supported. I'll let you know, and that dean you're talking about, even though he's a very honorable man, I'm inviting him to come to the SRS, he's accidentally from your coalition partner's party. It is true, Mr. Theodosijevic is from your coalition partner's party, and if God will come to the SRS, because it is an honorable man and I tell you right away. Ours was only one, and it was Radmilo Marojevic, right away I tell you, you have no idea, you don't know what you're talking about, you don't know what you're talking about, you don't know what you're talking about, you don't know what you're talking about, you don't know anything, you come out and say anything, but anyway. I won't even tell you it's nonsense, I won't tell you anything. I'm just asking you, when you're talking about chauvinism, do you mean what Vojislav Seselj's grandparents are, what you ask from there, so you'd like to question grandparents, is that hate speech what you'd like in the crematorium of Roma and Jews to suffer, is that hate speech? We would never say that in the SRS, and you would, but you'd like to burn down the Roma, and we'd like to build schools for them, we'd like to build roads for them, to do everything possible for these people to live like everyone else. I don't mind your insults. Come out and tell me – Alexander Vukic is the craziest person in the world, the dumbest person in the world, like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28404	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28405	How come it wasn't your time before, Mr. Radovic? I know it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28406	When?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28407	Just before he spoke...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28408	I warned him after three minutes. Would you please bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28409	I want and ask for further information, what I asked about the Shop, to have someone give me, especially from the Ministry of Culture. And for the MLM model, you can see how wide the action is, you can't do 400 total on the checkpoint, with all the DS engagements and all the possible political parties, to collect, and then by model – you work on customs, you get fired, you can collect another 4,000 signatures. We, Mr. Albianic, do not collect for your ban, we will never, not when you're at 2%, when you're miles away from this National Assembly, when you drop from the current three to two percent anyway, whatever it is, we'll keep you as a little bit of water in the palm, because by that we differ, among other things. But when you collect signatures and you can't collect a more serious number, as God please ask for help from Serbian radicals, we'll collegiately help you, not to worry much, whatever it is. You say -- we can't raise 100,000; we'll give you 100,000 in two days, so you can say that at least you've collected something somewhere. We have so much support that we can say – make people not feel so sad, miserable and lonely, help them, give them some signatures. But we'll do something else. You just get the signatures together, you ban us, and you do your job, and we prepare each other's books. So, when that book appears on Friday or Monday, we'll get to know the public, and you with the insults continue, it shows me just how panicking you are, and don't provide an answer to an easy and concrete question about customs administration, for the vault, health homes, schools and apothecary institutions. That tells Serbian citizens enough what a panic-stricken fear you are in and how and how you fear the democratic will of Serbian citizens and changes in government. Unfortunately for you, this change of government is getting closer and closer and it comes at an unfathomable rate.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28410	When you first asked the question, I gave the information that I would inform the president of the National Assembly about the questions you asked, and I expect that he, as he will lead the afternoon session of 15.00 hours, will give feedback. Replica, Mr. Albianic has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28411	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, firstly, Nebojsa Zdravkovic, head of our party in Kragujevac, is an honorable, responsible and honest man and do not take him in your false context here. Enough of your fake papers and all the other stuff you're waving at, the demagogue stories, too. Let me tell you, not here, too, falsely, for a congregation pay phone to God's public, to tell you how I'm threatening you. As I pass, I threaten you. First of all, I never threatened you, nor threatened you, everyone knows what kind of man I am, and being afraid of you as a rabbit, that's your problem. And when I pass, you fear me. I can't believe you're saying that for a dean who threw teachers out on the street and beat up students, he's an honorable man. How dare you talk like that, Wolfie? Since you're not ashamed, do you have any cheeks at all? You tell me, I quote you: the forces of chaos and madness are radicals. I've never said that. You just said it here yourself, and I'm not gonna say it like that. I correctly and accurately specify the elements of who you are and what you are. As far as roads, schools, hospitals, infrastructures are concerned, this is what the Government is doing today, thanks to both crime and corruption, thanks to the disclosure of Bogoljub Karic and his company, and you remember well that he was sitting next to you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia when I spoke about your ministry and what you did as Minister of Information, until you sat next to Bogoljub Karic. Today, we are in a position to finally resolve the issue to the citizens of Serbia, and through a major national investment plan, we return to the citizens through the construction of roads, schools, hospitals and all other things. Don't lie to Serbian citizens anymore, don't make it up, enough of that kind of stuff. Otherwise, G17 plus does not prohibit any political party, nor can it, but it can be done by a public prosecutor by making a request to the Constitutional Court of Serbia. You're some kind of attorney, so you know what the procedure is, and that certain things can't be done by one political party, but simply by the official duty of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, and that's what awaits you in the next period, so you deal with the competent state authorities, you're a lawyer, you're capable of handling it. Don't spread any more lies about how to collect signatures here. Citizens, it has shown, have the awakening of new energy and want to oppose such a way of working. I told you, there's nothing good you've done in the last 15 years, there's nothing you can offer the citizens, you're just waving false papers. You're telling false demagogue stories here. It's the only thing you do, actually.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28412	According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm as timid as a rabbit, that's true, I'm also afraid of the shadow of Miloljub Albianic. That monster when he shows up anywhere, everyone's scared, and the kids are scared, I'm not gonna be scared. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't get an answer whether this is the signature of the Sky of Zdravkovic or not. Is this his signature or not? I expect an answer from you, I don't expect it, I don't care what he says. I'm the worst demagogue, the worst thing in the world, whatever he said. It's all true. I just want to know if this is true or not, and I expect that information from the competent state authorities. I'm interested in that. I'm not interested in anything else, I'm interested in your opinion on the matter. Is it true that the administrations of customs offices, health homes and pharmacy institutions where the leaders of G17 plus leaders, or at the head of these institutions, were they there collecting signatures to ban our party? That's what I ask Serbia's MUP, because it's a crime, abuse of official office. Are those faces gonna fit or not? I keep the original signature of Dr. Nebojša Zdravković, not the copy, the original. I'm willing to let you check with the graphologist whether it's true or not. As for the cheek I'm talking about, each of us keeps his face and everyone cares about our cheeks. I care about my face and my children's cheeks. They're small, but I'm worried about nobody telling them anywhere – your dad's like this, both Daniel and Milic. Don't worry about my cheek. My cheek may still be cared for by my parents, brother, it's my job, not yours. I've tried my life to do what I know, to work hard, to be quite responsible. Sometimes I do 15, 16 hours, my associates know that, friends of the SRS; I can boast, it's hard to find, I'm not saying they're gone, but it's not easy to find. At the same time, I will never allow anyone to attack me personally because we hold our cheeks and protect them in every place, and especially I will not allow you the worst in Serbia to speak of my face anywhere. Don't ever say that again and you'll never be able to speak, Mr. Albianic. Now that I have here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I didn't get the answer, please once again, Mr. Radovic, you know what this means, to tell me... I apologize to Miss Jovanovic, I was wrong, I said they have 3%, so they're going to fall to 2%, they have 1.6%, they're going to fall to 0.5%. Please, Mr. Obradovic, I'm counting on you as a responsible man to influence the representatives of the MUP to provide you with information on whether this is true, whether I lied or not. I'm ready to give you a copy, and if it's the MUP, I'm willing to hand over the original paper with the original signature to check out who's lying, Mr. Albianic or me. I don't want to say he's lying, let them check and let them say who's lying, as well as when they sent an e-mail from the G17 Plus room, fighting Tom and Wolfie, and I don't know what it is. (President: Time, Mr. Wolf, and this if you want a copy, I will forward it to the President of the National Assembly. I'll get you a copy, Mr. Radovic, in a few minutes, and I'm done with it. There are Slankamenski Days, I will use it in a few seconds or ten seconds, since 5 August 2006, because I don't know when the Assembly will be sitting, 5.8th is scheduled to compete in night fishing, organised by all Serbian radicals, 6th is scheduled for a chess tournament, also for a small football tournament, 6th is to drag ropes, item 5 is a parade of horse wagons, item 6 of the game-saving competition, so let's find Mr Albianić, and let him participate in one of these points. It would be good, I'm sure you'd find the right place and to cheer up some of the citizens of Slankamen, I'm sure they'd enjoy it. Thank you again, Mr. Albianic, at the sea of personal insults, just continue, I don't mind, and I'll still be afraid of you, I know how dangerous you are, and how dangerous you are all from G17 plus dangerous. It's doubtless for all of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28414	Paja Momchilov and Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28415	Dear People's MPs, instead of discussing the law, we've come to the point of being resented here for wanting to look neat, respecting fashion. We should probably close the fashion houses, ban this country's fashion show, that's what you're suggesting. Of course, there's one more thing that's perfectly clear, that someone can look decent and neat and if they taste, so they don't have much money to give. But we need to take off the bows, I guess that'll be the next stage when we're told. I came out just for what's been said here. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. In a tirad such a jagged MP told Mr. Vukic that he was lying, that Karic was sitting next to him. I don't know what this is about right now. I already went out once and explained that I was sitting next to Karic without Karic sitting next to anyone else. Karic did not change places while he was in the government. Now one man who pleads to be serious tells the People's Messenger – you lie, you lie, you sit beside Karic. Make sure he didn't sit down, maybe Dinkic, when he talked about Mobtel, next to Karic. This may be more interesting for the citizens of Serbia than who is sitting in the government. I've been sitting, you're lying, it's a shame, and now you're laughing, which is already a problem perhaps other nature, not just a moral and dignity issue of this Parliament. Laugh, and fellow MP shout – lie, lie, sit next to Karic, I don't understand it anymore, really if someone can explain it would be good. So, please, don't use lies. I sat next to Mr. Karic and no one else. Again your constant stories, returning to the past, let's see what's happening today. We're talking about today, you want us to look into the future, and it's always a story from the past. Who's retrograde and retroactive? Let's see.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28416	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan, I hope we've exhausted a series of replicas. After a gentleman, I'll take a five-minute break to take care of our thoughts.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28417	I hope we've exhausted the replicas. I just want to get back to the agenda. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: We agree, go back to the agenda, you don't have to take a break. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28418	Here you go, Mr. Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28419	He'll decide whether there's going to be a break or not. I should get back to the agenda. I've heard a lot of things about this pay phone saying. I hope we don't want to talk about who's playing ropes anymore, who's playing chess and when, and as far as who's sitting where, I didn't think you were that literalist, it didn't mean that he was sitting next to you, it was more figurative, but if you're a literalist, that's your problem. As far as other things are concerned, we heard earlier, and I would like to clarify that the SRS is committed to building dwellings for the Roma and other endangered parts of our population. I only hope that it will not be in principle as it was done in Valjevo, where it is asked by the director of the Public Enterprise "OSA" to take 5% of the financing of the building of apartments for the needs of the party. I hope you don't want to build apartments like that. I hope it gets better.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28420	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to talk about the amendment to the 19th People's Parliament member, Ms. Radete? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Defence and Security Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 22. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28421	Dear People's MPs, the ID bill is an extremely bad legal project, practically one legal failure; it would only make sense if you accepted amendments to the SRS. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a ID bill and suggested that Article 23 paragraph 2 replaces the point with a comma and adds the words, quote: "unless the identity card has been found, and the disappearance has not been published in the Official Messenger". So let me get this straight. Article 23(2) The bill reads - against the decision of the competent authority to which the ID card is declared invalid is not an appeal allowed. The appeal must be allowed, it is a constitutional category, so that if it remained, this position would be in direct contrast with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution guaranteed the right to appeal and the two-stage decision-making. That is why I have also proposed this amendment on behalf of the SRS and provided for the possibility of making an appeal, but in case no ID card was found, and the disappearance has not been published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". So, in this case, I believe that an appeal must be allowed as a regular remedy, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act. This way, if the amendment was adopted, administration and additional costs would be reduced. In any case, this amendment is justified, legally possible and would improve the text of the law, so I suggest you adopt it in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28422	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. For a word, according to the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic came forward. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28423	On the occasion of this amendment, I would not enter into the details of the authorisation of an appeal against a solution declaring a personal card invalid in these situations provided for by the law, but I would only strengthen what Mr. Koprivica said. The right to appeal can eventually be ruled out, but the possibility of a administrative dispute must be ensured. This option is not given here, and if Mr. Koprivica has suggested under what conditions a possible complaint is made, then if that ID card is found in the meantime, then I really don't see why this is not accepted, so before this is a legal-technical solution and is in line with the Constitution. However, everything here is rejected. I must draw attention to the MPs of the majority as far as there are provisions of the law here that are completely inapplicable. I'll start with, say, article 19, which is still related to this article 23. He says, "The holder must not use the ID card," but the whole member is referred to an individual, to his will that the law forbids him to do anything in a situation that he should determine has occurred and since such a situation is then the will of the individual, the perception of the individual, the knowledge of the individual, the sense of the individual appears as a criterion, and later you have that even some sanctions appear on that basis. So if I think the photo on the I.D. fits the description, then how can you haunt me? You wrote an article in the 19th in relation to the individual who owned the ID card. You have not written it in relation to an objective state established by a competent state authority. I also warned you in principle about this lack and that this is practically inapplicable, because the fact is determined by an individual, and you later invite him to some criminal responsibility for whether he found it or not, which is a legal-technical, legal-logically absolutely impossible situation. And last time I informed you: that you stated in this article on 19th that during some control, the identification of the representative of the competent national authority found that some of the shortcomings in Article 19(1) had occurred first, second, third and fourth points, and with some written clue warned the holder of the ID card that the defect should be removed within some time, then this norm would have made some sense. This standard is written by the system of self-control. There is a great responsibility based on self-control, and there is no criterion for self-control and self-control. You must have copied something and exaggerated it. Furthermore, here are some attempts to divert the discussion from these things that are very important when it comes to ID and registration, and in general the concept of a public document that proves the identity of an individual. I'm returning the discussion to what was two hours ago after this pay phone. Take a practically possible situation for a person to get into the National Assembly’s application with a new ID card, wanting to visit an MP or president of the National Assembly. In order to identify that ID card with new data and there are parent numbers of parents, both, one, it doesn't matter, and the person standing next to it manages to remember that thirteen-digit number, goes to the first computer, enters the site, say, the city of Belgrade, knocks out that birth number, and gets the information whether under that home number someone is listed in the unique polling list and lists all the data, street, number, date of birth, age, everything, everything, everything. You obviously didn't want to think about it, because the technical capabilities of the equipment that has been obtained require that such data be inserted. So, in any city in the territory of the Republic of Serbia where there is a computer management of a single polling list, there is a possibility that you can type a thirteen-digit number, if the computer recognizes it, you'll get all the data written on the person who has the parent number. If you make a mistake typing your computer won't accept it. Why? Because the principle Mr. Nikolic spoke of yesterday was impossible for two people to have the same home number. You probably didn't think about it. And what consequences they may be, I can only hint at you. If someone is in a dispute with the cardholder and is unable to make up for something he did to him, then learning information through JMBG his parents can make mistakes for the children who are at his grandparents' house or the property of that person that he has with his parents. Perhaps from this example that I have cited you can conclude why the amendments to the SRS, which are, above all, in the function of keeping the privacy of each person, protecting the identity data and recording and showing on the identity card, in this version of yours, are only the data needed to identify the identity of the person, without any other information that could be entered into the family, family or any other relationship that the individual naturally entered, because he couldn't fall from Mars. I hope after this you won't be surprised if because of the new I.D. with this data, which you're simply pushing to be present here, we have a situation of even better possibilities for the abuse of personality data. I'm sure your intention shouldn't be that, and in the event of this, I've shown you what might happen. Just to draw attention to you, if you put one person, an insider of some of the democratic bloc's criminal groups in Serbia, into a department run by a central computer for all of these things, then you can imagine what's going to happen. Just to remind you, you've called many members of some clans waving IDs and having seven, eight ID cards. Who can guarantee us that this system is not even better used for this kind of abuse? Secondly, what does English mean on a form? Tell the truth whether it's just that identification or something else encrypted for those from abroad who would love to have insight into the democratic structure of the Republic of Serbia, the movement of individuals, the age structure and all other data. In the democratic bloc, however, you accused each other of taking the CD to some foreign spy service, of many things you accused each other of. You are now manifesting the ability to build a coalition capacity, for your capacity you are developing democracy by system that even the least present party in the National Assembly can represent Serbia, and a party that has more than 40% of the popularity in Serbia cannot represent Serbia. You're disturbed by individuals in the O.R., you're disturbed by individuals nearby. Lucky for me that you are disturbing the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28424	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Governments of the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28425	Dear colleagues and colleagues, before the SRS, MP Zlatan Jovanovic has submitted an amendment that only wishes to regulate in one more precise way what is contained in Article 25. Namely, this is about records and data usage. Article 25 has the title – ID card records, the authority to keep records. We felt that Article 2: "The ID card record is kept by the competent authority" should be more precisely formulated to replace the words "the competent authority" with the words "internal affairs ministry (the competent authority)". That's what it's supposed to say. In his reply, the legislator says that this is not necessary, since Article 6 of the same law has specified jurisdiction. Article 6(1) states: "The Ministry of Interior shall issue a ID card in a regulated manner". This article discusses publishing, and Article 25 discusses keeping records. We don't think this inaccurate explanation is standing, and, if it is, I mean, it's not hard to accept and write right here. In fact, when we talk here, we often resent that we are some retrograde force, that we do not know the reality of modern times, that we have lost our sense of this reality and that we cannot go into the future. I'm free from this place to say that only two motives make us defend amendments like this and our views. The first and basic motive is the citizens' interest. I ask you, is it in the interest, when we have a million unemployed and the average personal income at Serbia level is 20,000, to have someone single out 102m euros for expensive equipment, to introduce something that you want to be the first in Europe? Let's ask the citizens and hear the answer. Instead of focusing that money on opening new jobs and creating assumptions about social programmes and other things, we should compete with Europe in something that is still for Europe and for this modern world that we are seeking problematicly. One of my colleagues said that we might be offering someone and a computer. We will, unless she understands some things. Then we'll have obvious resources, more elemental and more accessible to someone's mind, to offer. Why not? If someone wants to be a European and a citizen of the world to take a computer, go to a website called "Privacy International" and see what the modern world and representatives of the world's most developed countries think about chips and registering us citizens through chips. So much for modernity and our intelligence. You're telling us we don't know. We know. With a few of my colleagues, I was at the center doing biometric data, taking three-dimensional images and chipping. We watched that process go. Now that we've seen all this, we're going to ask you a few questions. There's no minister here. I can see there's no gentleman standing there in front of the Ministry. At first, I thought a man was prevented from obligations, that he really couldn't be there, but he wasn't, he wasn't there by accident. He's been framed by this law. He can't defend this law the right way. Here's one piece of evidence. Someone came out here and read a letter from some photographers' associations that say – now we're worried about losing our jobs, we won't be able to take photos for ID cards. The minister comes out and says it's not true, that he can. Well, it won't, because the technological process of biometric image taking is a completely sophisticated process and an expensive process. These people won't be able to do it in due course. Maybe if you get the equipment with the perfect equipment. There's light that's very important, these cabins. I was in that cabin, it's a special cabin, it's similar to when we had those machines. So it's a whole new technology. What's this about? It is said that the government of the late Prime Minister Djindjic when it came to power wanted to introduce an electronic administration and communicate citizens with the state by electronic means. Then Mihajlovic quickly tried to implement it on a national security plan where he decided to introduce an electronic ID card. If the ID card is a document to prove the identity of Serbian radicals there is no problem, we do not think the citizens of Serbia will have any problem either, but it is already a problem with the second attitude of your first member where you say it is evidence of the other facts it contains. There's a problem, in those other facts. What we don't understand is that you have bank cards and you have microchips there. Yes, but when we fill out questionnaires in banks, we don't talk about who our father and mother was, and what their personal number is, we don't talk about which party we are, we don't even talk about other data. There's no other information on those bank cards. Don't replace thesis. We're not that simple. And your argument begins to be fundamentally inadmissible, I almost say simple. Therefore, do not be guided by thesis. Discuss what we say, what we say, do not twist our words and our thoughts. Why do we think it's important that I go back to this member again, that it's important that the ID records are kept by the competent authority? I draw your attention to article 9 that says - printing patterns and writing data; whoever reads this, we put a grudge, what English, it's clear what English is for, that this will eventually be a travel card. Never, in the world is a passport what is a travel document and it will be. In the world, it is clear to us, there is a great fear of terrorism, crime and they believe that biometric data placed on the chip will be some solution to the Western world and developed countries of the world. If that's the problem, put on passports, if it's an international convention, if we're signatories to it, that microchip with our biometric data, we won't mind. Now we're talking about a personal card in Serbia today and what it needs to make possible. Article 9 says: printing forms and writing data; there is no word about printing, nor about writing, but only about language and letter. Read it carefully and you'll see. What do I care? Where will the ID card be printed, will it be in the MUP or somewhere else? That's a very interesting question, I'm almost inclined to believe that it won't be printed in the MUP, and I'll try to explain why, again, based on the interest and information of the people who are directly involved, who are the bearers of it. We know that Norway is also making that system of ID cards, but it takes a five-finger print. Let me tell you something else, this is supposed to be for a thief, when you find out, when you only give this a little bit, because if you're setting prints, they say, a thief always uses a thumb, and the thumb is a universal finger used to identify someone who stole it if you want to use a trace on an object to identify it. Therefore, experts, do not honor us not to prepare. We're getting ready and we're getting ready so well. Maybe we're wrong, maybe we're wrong, we have the right to mistakes, we've always paid our mistakes, and we've admitted it. We never ran away from it, we never said we were smarter than the people, we never resented the people, when they valued us in that right and the only place, which is the election. Let's get back to this. An interesting example in medicine: recipes printed and protected by a bar code a while ago were suddenly abolished and then the Fund gave great money to determine by the tender the printing of new recipes with new protection, look at the coma, the Institute for making bills. It cost a lot more than stilos did, stilos is a company that previously printed those forms; stilos had to get his job in the tender, and the Bureau got it without a tender and without a clear economic account to pay for it. That they won't reprint these forms to the Bureau for issuing bills? We have no one to ask. This is deaf talk. Unfortunately, we speak here to the people and ask questions on behalf of our people. Why can't this institution be allowed to do this? Another interesting question: Why, when this expensive 102m-euro equipment has already been purchased, has it taken so long for such an inaccurate law to be placed in front of the people? He says this, first because financial inspections at the Ministry were combing these jobs for a year. Of course, someone wanted to prove that Mihajlovic made some malfeasance, as far as we can tell, as far as the deal went, we don't know again. On the other hand, Serbia's bombed-out MOP wing was envisioned for the headquarters of the department to operate ID cards and the department was prevented from being reconstructed for a long period of months. Looks like when the deal came, here, this is going to be printed by the Banknote Authority, then it's possible. You can't let that happen. If allowed then swelling of that data will absolutely be possible. Someone says you're making some guesses. Let's get another piece of evidence that it's not lame. There's an affair of fake money from Zrenjanin. The police know better than I do. It was caught there using that hologram that was only available to appear to be competent to print that money. If that's possible, then anything is possible. Therefore, to be perfectly clear, my time stands out, Serbian radicals say - we do not need expensive and unnecessary technology to be first in something. Secondly, we don't want to get into our privacy, because most of the developed countries of the world and people in the world, both in England and America, don't want to, neither do we. If this I.D. was limited to biometric identification data, there wouldn't be any problem. That's the whole truth. As a result, this superficial law is a dubious law, the law stemmed from a two-party settlement in power, and is by no means in the interest of the citizens. The process of this kind of publishing and tracking will only cost, because to read these cards you have stationary instruments, you have mobile instruments. Who will pay the price of movable and stationary instruments, I ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28426	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 28. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another amendment that the SRS is trying to fix that doesn't fix. Here's another law that would ensnar us, entrenched us, dissuaded us, and reduced us to the level of amorphous masse that would be able to mess with these bosses the next day, because they brought them to power, and the employers, because they're paying them. National MP Petar Jojic has submitted an amendment to Article 28 in which he seeks to delete point 2). I will read the whole article: "The competent authority may give the data from the records to state and other organisations and bodies, as well as legal and physical persons, under the following conditions", and now point 1) could remain, but point 2) says "to the data-seeking entity", and that means to the data-seeking natural person, "this data is necessary to carry out the tasks of his jurisdiction". A physical face can also be the one you protected. It's a plague. He's a protected physical face. He needs information about someone's property because he wants a man to recalibrate it. Then the competent authority will give it because it needs them to do the job. On the other hand, this and this law are trying to justify the $102 million, which someone, a former minister, who could have been anything but couldn't be a minister, because they're so hard and when an interview gives you just don't know if he's giving the interview... He spent 102 million state money, bought some equipment, because someone somewhere told him it's extraordinary and that it leads directly to Europe, and now it needs to be employed. The fact that the chip is also extremely dangerous, Mr. Momchilov only said part of what with the chip everything can be done... The fact that the chip is extremely dangerous, because you can fill it with data because they are uncut, because through it you can act on everything, and even on the psyche of whoever carries the ID card with them; that the chip is extremely dangerous, because every moment from the satellite, they will be able to track you and where you are moving and where you are, etc., absolutely your privacy is lifted, it's on the side. The fact that you first implanted the chips with stray dogs, the law we brought here to install chips to stray dogs, and then the veterinarian will just bring that chip reader and know exactly what the dog is, whose dog is eventually if it's strayed; that you've implanted chips on the farms, let's go to the side. Why don't you put in people's chips and then pass the cop with the one next to it, so it's obvious what your name is and what your blood type is and whether you're convicted etc. Why do you need a ID? So, Orwell knocks on the door of Serbia, at the open door of Serbia, you opened the door to him, not to Orwell, but to that book, Orwell "1984". One more thing that's been said about, it's a question of what's written in English in the ID card, since there's been a misunderstanding, and let's get that straight right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, who is now representing the foreign minister, that Serbian citizen Vuk Draskovic, refer to him as Dan's husband, but on the side, signed an unauthorized contract with NATO, under which they can spar in Serbia whenever they want and wherever they want and how long they want to stay. This is English, because they'll legitimize us when they meet us on the street. This is English so they can understand, because they may not have that reader, but they will certainly be more equipped. Both they and their assistants who can be recruited from both Croatia and Albania, and from Kosovo, and from Al-Qaeda, which they don't, because she's working with them, and she's doing it a lot. Speaking of which, the other Serbian citizen, unfortunately Serbia, acting as army minister recently, called on two F-16s to land at the Batajna airport, several days before the anniversary of the murder of small Milica Rakic. That idiot major openly says, in fact he's not an idiot, he's the idiot who brought him in, he openly says he was involved in operations. Does that mean that he dropped that bomb that killed little Milica Rakic or that little girl, I apologize to the parents and relatives of that girl that I can't remember, on the bridge, that genius of 14 years old who killed her? Maybe it's exactly the same one, and someone's letting you come to the Batajna airport today, and unfortunately there's a guard standing by, watching his plane while he's strutting around Batajni airport. The liver turned to me, and I suppose all patriots; for you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I'm not so sure. Ask how the parents of those who killed the same pilots in Serbia felt. And they're Serbian citizens. Why delete point 2) so that it can allow natural persons, that the data-seeking entity is necessary to carry out operations under its jurisdiction? Well, no one can have, except for the MUP, this data, not even them, all the data you're going to feed the chips. No one can. The government replied: "The government does not accept the amendment, because by deleting point 2) from Article 28. The bill of law, the possibility of abuse, was increased... ". Where you will be more abuses than coming to the SUP and looking for data for anyone from Serbia – I need them to do my job. Maybe he'll be followed by the Chums, eventually, maybe one of his guys will follow him. And the liquidations were the final part of the follow-up. Gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia are becoming completely unprotected. He says, "... Since the competent authority may provide the data from the records to the data-seeking entity and when it does not need them. "What, then, is this competent authority going to do, from what right to the competent authority, if this point 2) is deleted, to give information to anyone? They need a physical face, they're needed to do the job. He says he can get the data even though he doesn't need it to do the job. After all, anything is possible in the state of Serbia, so it is possible that recently this mayor of Belgrade celebrates Dane Danube on Sava! He says his kid was a Danube cay in Zemun. Well, the Danube runs through Palilu and through Groc, if they're already so nasty on radical Earth. Why didn't they celebrate in another municipality? According to that logic, he could have been on Moravia, both in Turkey, on Djinn and on Toplice, because they are being poured into the Danube. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the amendment of MP Petar Jojic should also be accepted by this point 2) from article 28.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28428	According to the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic reported, and then Mr. Krstin. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28429	The basic problem with this article is that this reference point, first, second and third, can create a confusion whether it is cumulative or alternative. If these dots are listed in cumulative list form that all the conditions are met, then that makes sense. If the interpretation of this was given in an alternative form, then this really doesn't make any sense, and I have to draw your attention to it. I think that's the basic reason why this amendment was submitted, because from this formulation, as this is written, it can't be clear whether one or another system of numbering conditions has been applied. I interpret them as cumulative, that's what I have to tell you, but I need to draw attention to a technical problem. This is a situation where the competent national authority is asked for information, but we have a situation where a citizen or cardholder himself is reporting his data. It's a completely different situation. There is a third situation where, regardless of what the citizen has reported, and even given an insight into the ID card from which it is all prescribed for the purpose of issuing checks, other assurances, etc., but this is the situation where the identification of citizens is carried out through that identity card, and there is a situation where the competent state authority checks all of this, is now the main problem of this bill – why would someone ask for a data check when you have in the first members the principle of absolute accuracy of everything that is written in the ID card? So now the situation is given when these data are checked on the citizen, the data on the person that was identified with such a ID card and then the conditions are listed; I say, if they're cumulative, then it makes sense, and if they're alternatively set, then it doesn't make any sense. I have to draw attention to life situations, because when one person needs to or has an interest in suing another person, it couldn't give one order, so it could also define a precise claim, unless there's precise information on which to identify the defendant, to know tomorrow who needs to fulfil some obligation if there's some kind of lawsuit or something else. The need then arises for one who has a legal interest to ask the competent national authority for all necessary information for what he intends to do, and the identification of the individual is necessary. Now there are many situations that life carries. I believe that the protection of personal data is regulated by a special law, it is a federal regulation, but when they broke up the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so the state union, that federal law went towards the Republic and became a republican regulation. So, I think Article 28 could have been a different formula. We did not want to give a new formulation of Article 28, but we wanted to draw attention to the fact that what is mentioned in point 2) is already contained in the first point, because the first point says – that the entity seeking data by law or other regulations is authorised to seek and receive that information. Those who are authorised by law and regulation to search for data and receive them 100% are likely to take them because of what is stated in point 2) – that those data-seeking entities are necessary to carry out their tasks under its jurisdiction. Please, this is where the word "competence" is mentioned, not to mention a physical person in terms of his legal interest. I therefore believe that this article should have been defined differently, to be perfectly clear, so that it would not allow arbitrary interpretations, thereby creating its inaccuracy with certain conditions that abuse simply cannot be prevented, stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28430	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr. Christin has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28431	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I could agree with the argument of the previous speaker, especially when it comes to Article 28, with regard to the need to regulate this matter by law, it stands in the whole of the law to address the most important issues in this area. However, I think it is necessary and an extremely important segment of the law is exactly what is called using data. The law has 35 members, of which we have four members in this chapter, and of which three members speak about the records, and only one about the use of data. So the whole law is practically defined how to collect data, how to become transparent for certain organs, but as they are used, it's very dubious. I would even say that it is confusing and in practice can lead to two solutions: either everything is available to everyone or nothing is available to anyone. This is a very important part of the law and a very important part of the data. where you have to know exactly what conditions everything is available to. In principle, in the presence of the minister, I expressed serious reservations against this member, because I expected the minister to intervene, or the Security Committee, but unfortunately it did not happen. I think it's necessary for this to be arranged in a completely different way. SRS colleagues tried to amend it, but I think, as counterpart Krasic said, it is difficult to fix. If we start from the opening part of the provision "the competent authority can", it does not satisfy the basic postulates of the relations between the state authorities, the management relationship as part of the executive authority towards the court as a special part of the government, on which the state rests. Data shall be made available to the court when it is requested and that authority shall not be able to communicate to the court whether or not it will provide information at the request of the court. So this first check, which is checking the constitutional positioning law of the body in the constitutional system with us, does not satisfy. The court's data cannot be denied, and here the legislator has opened the possibility of the court being denied the data, as I don't think the data can be denied to other state authorities either. Of course, each state authority is working within its jurisdiction and within its own work and the court within its jurisdiction. In this context, their right to search for data, because they do not ask for such data personally, is always required for the purpose of resolving individual rights of citizens, i.e. in order to achieve this common general interest that citizens have a regulated rule of law. We here, on the contrary, to one state authority of the administration, which is the MUP, give the right to appreciate whether to give the court at his request some data from the records. I don't think it's in line with the Constitution and the position of the judiciary, and it's not good at first. Secondly, the court and other state bodies are equating themselves with a number of entities as defined by the law, and the entities include state authorities, other bodies, other organisations, legal persons and natural persons. So they're all even with state authorities, with courts, which absolutely doesn't respond to the position of the state authorities and the judiciary in the legal system. Everyone can, and no one has to. On the other hand, it opens up a discretionary right to one authority of the state administration, and it is no longer equal to other state bodies, to distribute whether it will give information to another authority and value whether they are necessary for its work. So, this is one situation that introduces arbitration and puts one state authority in relation to other bodies within the body of the state authorities of the administration, and on the other hand, worse still, it majorises the administration in relation to the judiciary. I don't think this kind of arrangement is good, and it requires a detailed reconstruction of this member. In my opinion, this indent 3 is that the data-seeking entities are necessary for these two indents. I'm undermining her. Anyone who has received the information is obliged to provide protection. That's a clean thing to me. I don't understand this other thing. Under point 1), the authority is authorised by the regulations, that's fine, but point 2) is really very controversial – that the data-seeking entities need this data to carry out their tasks under their jurisdiction. I don't know on what constitutional basis the authorities of the administration will, and internal affairs are the authorities of the administration, appreciate whether it is necessary for the court to obtain some information and whether they are within its jurisdiction, whether they are necessary to the court. I think it violates the subjectivity of the judicial authority and the equality of those two authorities, because it tells someone - you won't get that information no matter what you're looking for, because I don't think they're necessary for your work. This violates the possibility of a court to come, in the extreme line, to the material truth and to resolve a specific proposal. What does this norm still contain? This norm contains no question how the data is used by internal affairs authorities, we haven't talked about how the data is used by security services, civil security authorities, military security authorities, another segment is absolutely missing. This is the most important norm in this law, and this norm really requires a thorough readjustment. I'm afraid that when the courts apply this standard, or when they search for data, they will run out of the data they need to work, not out of will, but because this law has given the possibility that some section chief (I'm not downplaying it) appreciates whether a district court judge is in charge of a case that needs some personal information from a person. I think it's entering the realm of the constitutional position of the judiciary, and I think this norm really requires a detailed and thorough reshuffle.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28432	Anyone else want to talk about an amendment to Article 28? No, I don't. ) We will take a break until 15.00 hours, and we will begin the amendment to the 29th People's MP Bora Kutic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28433	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work on the search in detail of the sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the ID card. Once again, let me remind those who did not participate or did not follow the morning work of the session: in accordance with Article 85(1) and (4). Rules of Procedure, I've decided that we're going to be working today until the end of the search in particular on that agenda, which will probably be the seventh one, which will be on the agenda at 1800 hours. At the same time, the announcement is that tomorrow will not be a session, but the session will be held on Thursday of 10.00 hours, I guess by discussing the eighth item of the agenda, but it simply depends on the rhythm of the work. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Bora Kutić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 29(1), point 2) with a proposal to delete the said member's point 2). What were the motives when I submitted this amendment? I had more motives and reasons, and one of the main reasons is the economic situation and the property power of our citizens. I usually come from the municipality of Srbobran where citizens are in a very difficult material situation and I don't think these draconian penalties these citizens can respect because they're not in financial capacity. Article 29 paragraph 1 states: "The fine of up to 50,000 dinars or prisons by 30 days will be punishable for a violation of a person", and point 2) says "who, within a certain period, does not apply for the issue of a ID card", that is, Article 11 and Article 20 of Article 2 which regulates the person. We will also read Article 11. which says: "The persons who, under the provisions of this law, are obliged to have a personal ticket for the issue of a ID card shall submit no later than 15 days after the 16th year of life has been completed, or within 15 days of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 3 of this Act." Let's imagine now a concrete situation, a child who turned 16 lives in such a material situation as my Nadal, Turin, or Srbobrans live in. They need to file a request costing 400-500 dinars, travel expenses, to get into the headquarters of the authority responsible for issuing ID cards, they're definitely about 600-700 dinars. So, because of the material possibilities, they are unable to submit that request and there is a possibility of being punished up to 50,000 dinars. I think the promoter knew how much this machine cost to make ID cards had in mind and remembered how it could cover those costs from the purchase of these personal card machines. Here, you remembered, in this way, meaning dragon penalties they would replace the failures of Dusan Mihajlovic and the team that took part in the purchase of these machines for making ID cards. I think the proposer of this law should take into account the material situation of citizens who should comply with these provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28435	Thank you very much, Mr. Box. Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Defence and Security Committee, tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 31a be added after Article 31a. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28436	This is always happening to me, Mr. President, but you know what they say - who's waiting for that welcome. That's how I've been waiting to speak, as well as the Serbian radicals of my time. If you remember, this morning you stopped me for a minute before I started, but it doesn't matter. I reported on the amendment of my colleague Vojislav Milajić. He asks that Article 32 of the proposed law on handling pending requests be deleted and says: "The procedure for resolving the issue of a ID card started before the date of application of this law will end under the provisions of this law. "So we need to know, and again because of the public who is now following the assembly transfer, that this law is in effect on the eighth day of its publication. As things stand now and during the assembly session, the vote on amendments and this law, citizens must know, will be held at the end of July and will take effect six months from the day of its publication. I believe that we Serbian radicals on our part will do everything we can to ensure that this law does not experience its implementation because it is very bad and because in the right sense, it has come across a huge disapproval by citizens. Here, five minutes ago, ladies and gentlemen, I entered the Assembly Hall at the beginning of the afternoon session and the courier gave me a telegram that was addressed to my name and sent about an hour ago. On the basis of our morning debates and the controversy that we had about biometric writings, or chipping, on the basis of the fact that this law deeply penetrates human rights and that citizens were not consulted at all when proposing such a law, one of them, which was signed with a full name and last name, the gentleman also left his home number, said to ask me to ask him a question and answer him – given that I am a model citizen and that I am always carrying my personal card with me, although I am being copied (it is because of this new method that you are going to apply) does this mean that I will be followed for life and at all times available? Of course, you can take this under some kind of paranoia of us or of the citizens, but I have to go back to it again, because of this fellow, and suffers an amendment to delete this article, or that the law does not experience its application, that various experts, not only in Serbia, but throughout the world, have come to the knowledge and through numerous patterns and examples, have made one conclusion that does not conform to this law and the adoption of the law on ID cards in this way. One of Microsoft's technology directors in Scotland, Jerry Fishend, said: "The placing of all personal data in one place is making it worse for the system to allegedly eliminate. There is no need to create systems that allow hackers to easily access a large number of personal data concentrated in one place." That's what we've been telling you for days and hours. "This is a very attractive and grateful target for criminals." Of course, everything that is reportedly to be a perfect bait with highly sophisticated technology is for all criminal, or major criminal groups, terrorists, and all those who have precisely that target to abuse that database. "This is a very attractive and grateful target and, unlike other forms of data, such as for credit cards, if personal data are compromised, such as The fingerprints, there's no way you can get someone else. Every time such a ID card is used it will be registered in the central register," that's why he's worried about this citizen, because that's really true, "so he'll be able to make a small map of your personal life. That's what no one wants." And you yourself know, MPs, and Mr. Markovic, as president of this assembly, has the right and obligation to remind us every time we talk about the personal life of an individual. He does so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, though selectively, sometimes like this, sometimes depends on who's behind the pay phone, but in principle, reacts when it comes to this member of the Rules of Procedure. Now this gentleman who sent the telegram, and apparently he's scared, sets me, or all of you, because he said please read, the question of whether and how will the future go through the fingerprint and using a new ID card to use data from his life? You will say, it will be used by the competent state authorities, as it stands in the law, for his personal identification, etc. However, he is aware of the fact and based on this argument, only one that I have made, that everyone can have that information available to him. When it comes to such a law and a public debate is being held in Australia whether it should be applied, that is, to be voted by the MPs there... They have a committee to protect the privacy of citizens in the Australian state, we here have those rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all signed international conventions that are not respected at all in our country, you know that very well. Flagrantly, all these rights were violated during the "Sabbe" action, and later on, and also misused by some, not all, media in dealing with those who are not on their side, or are not political like-minded by their financiers. All this politician, who is a public figure, who engages in this work, should put up with his skin and show the people that it is not so, by holding, with his attitude and with the truth that is always and only handled by the SRS. How do you protect one citizen from all this? He's asking himself a question. He doesn't have an assembly pay phone, neither a committee or an MP, an opportunity to call a press conference, talk to the public, and say, "Listen, people, my rights are at stake because of this and that, I don't want to have a law like this in my country." Various files can be made based on our data by those who are interested or by some sick minds who can think of it. It's not about paranoia, it's about the real research methods that experts from this area have been doing around the world, what can happen. Why should we consider this only from a technical point of view, as they tried to convince us of colleagues from the governing structures? It's not a technical question at all. Not only do you get into the fundamental human rights of man and citizen, which is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – but when you have such ministers, and also the Deputy Prime Minister, who says that a more important fight against radicals than the Constitution is, then everything is allowed in this country – but you also have more traditional religious communities, such as those that have come out of our SPC, which are against the adoption of such a law. That's why these people, fighting only for the truth, issued from this association a brochure called "New ID cards"? For a life without a stamp." No one wants to be branded. One totalitarian time, the time of fascism, when so many lives were destroyed during World War II, exiled so many people just because they were not the same faith and the same nation, made them create sites throughout the globe of the Earth. If we have come to the situation that we have to convince ourselves today, and that much larger countries, by the number of inhabitants, have considered this issue for years come to know that they do not need it, then it is unnecessary and that we further convince you, if you really want to accept these arguments, not just because the government delivered them. For example, you who were then an alleged opposition, asked for a springboard to come to the Serbian Parliament, Dusan Mihajlovic, if he had arrived on the agenda until the moment the radical parliamentary group shot him down from power, or the whole DOS, in December 2003, you would have called press conferences, on all sides you would have talked about how this law, like this, is being violated by human rights. The moment you came to the National Assembly, and in front of you, with a delay of two and a few years, a law promoted by the former minister who was misrepresented as Minister of the Interior, you say it's an excellent law. If I had seen you then what would you say when Dusan Mihajlovic was minister. But what you care about is that now Jocic, you blindly support him, or the Ministry and the Government that proposes this. In the next election you won't skip the censorship, you won't be there, you'll just be citizens who will come, according to Article 32, for which Mr. Milajic asks to be deleted, in front of the counter to file a complaint to get a new ID card. That way of thinking is irresponsible, because it hurts people, because it's not good and it costs the country above all. No one has given me an answer so far, there are Ministry gentlemen, so I'm going to finally use this parliamentary right, if you'll allow me, Mr. Markovic, to ask that question as well. (President: Please. ) So, I am interested, since from the beginning, in signing a preliminary contract for Motorolina equipment, while the minister was Dusan Mihajlović, speculated with some figure, that the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Republic Government, answered me – this whole project until the end, with all the accompanying things for the full implementation of this law, that each citizen should receive such a ID card, how much will it cost the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia who will have to pay for it? I believe that in the day of voting you will think a little bit about your actions and about the reckless actions of those people who have proposed this law before this republican government is appointed, and who are obviously certain lobbyists and centres of power, because no one has done it, nor has it occurred to him, and especially Dusan Mihajlovic and these "yellow" thieves, those of DOS authorities, that they adopt such laws. Look what this gentleman says who sent me a telegram. He says, "I'm a model citizen." I forgot to tell you, he's got some big words on him that he's a non-partisan character. So he only speaks as a citizen and asks to be said. But you know that even now the punishment, perhaps fellow Jojic knows how much it is for not owning a ID card, since it has been increased by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia all these fines, the fines for a belt, for overspeed, are probably thousands of dinars. What the police say is, I'll be corrected by former Serbian police general Jojic, if I'm wrong, when he stops one on the street and says - ID, pulls everything out of his pockets. That's how he tells someone who's at least suspicious of him, finds him in some corner, a wake-up call. A police officer comes across Dragan Gilas and tells him – ID card, takes everything out of his pockets. He flips his pockets, in his pockets only "gold" or even more privileged various "American Express" and other payment cards with millions of available funds, because he has made all the money he has stolen possible for him by the Republic government, which finance him and his mafia Democratic Party, holds various accounts. And when you come across an ordinary citizen, like this man, he says he always wears a ID card, but it can happen that he didn't bring it, he's just gonna flip his pockets, turn out to be one, two, three dinars. In this, the difference between ordinary people and citizens seeking the protection of their rights and those lobbyists from the Dossovic government, Dusan Mihajlovic and DS, who were first advocates of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28437	Thank you very much, Miss Jovanovic. Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) Miss Jovanovic, you have received an answer as to how much the machines themselves cost, this is a question to the Ministry of Finance, whether there is an estimate of the total costs. So it's not according to the MUP, because that answer was received. Thank you. I hope the members of the 9th, 16th and 23rd. The European conventions will also be incorporated into the Constitution of Serbia, so further protection will be given to the law we spoke of. To Article 33. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. It's very important, very closely monitored by the Ministry's representatives, so we're clearing up that something hasn't happened to skip. Don't worry, there's someone to worry about. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28438	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Radovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 33(1). Since it lists all sublegal acts and they are defined under the previous provisions of this law, Mr Radovanovic is asking that the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts be reduced by six months and that it be three months. What's this about? If it takes into account what is written in Article 35, that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and that it will apply after six months of the date of entry into force of this law, let's say that the theoretical law is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia on 1 July, it entered into force on July 9th, six months is 6-7 January 2007. Then, practically, this six-month deadline has been consistent with the time limit since the application of this law began, and the idea of a legislator is that the moment the new law begins to apply, all sublegal acts are passed, because without these sublaws, it is almost impossible to apply this law. That's why we're asking for an amendment to cut the deadline for bringing in sublegal acts from six months to three months. Of course, any reasonable person who had in mind what we wrote and suggested this would accept it, because this has its own legal logic and has its own mental health, unlike what was proposed. But we do have a problem with writing laws. I'd go back to Article 32, since it's about Article 33. He says, "The resolution procedure for the issue of a ID card started before the date of application of this law will end under the provisions of this law. "This would mean, if this law were to enter into force on 9 July of this year, and a request for a new ID card was submitted on 10 July, it is possible to resolve the request within 10 days and to give the citizen a ID card in accordance with the provisions of this law. This law applies only in this given situation on 6 January 2007. You've got to have some service over there that's going through the ones that write these laws. Because this thing with what's in the explanation, the vacacio legion, it's practically clueless. These are two completely different concepts. If you had said that the proceedings would begin until the date of entry into force of this law or until the day of application of this law to end under the applicable law, I could understand that. I could even understand, unless the request was resolved, so it was transferred to some date after the application of this law, to go according to this law. But you've completely messed up everything, and you're practically making this law inadmissible. Then the question arises whether, due to this period of six months from the day of publication until the day of entry into force and application, it is this vacatio legion, however, you have confused it all. You now have the day of publication, the day of entry into force and you have the day of application of the law, three divided terms. You can't put in the same legal position as the citizen who applied for the current law today and didn't get a ID and call him and inform him – you'll come on July 15th to pick up your ID card, with that citizen who submitted a request for an I.D. on December 31st this year. You can do the paperwork, you can termologically, you can do the text you wrote, but that way of thinking and that logic is contrary to nature. You're in conflict with nature, with physical laws. I recognize this handwriting. It is the same handwriting that has made us happy in some laws, why not say, which is why symposiums, lectures and public debates are organised in a building located in Bulevar of Peace; and you parliamentarians and you non-governmentals, when you go and get some packs there and you get to elaborate what should be done about this electoral law, you know, complain exactly how the SRS in 2004 challenged those of your epochal amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. There are other interventions from abroad that are ultimately based on the argument of the SRS, which is made available to the public primarily by this speaker. So I would ask you to consider our amendments, to get the heat out and stop in front of this room, and to try to understand that we are saving you from nature and from natural laws, because no matter how much we dispute our amendments and our right to criticise you politically, your institutions, your bodies when they come into a situation to apply the laws that have been voted here, they realize that the laws are inadmissible, bad and use the argument of the SRS. I guess you're stronger by a few painful experiences, because you know yourself that by the end of the year 10-15 laws that are epochally announced here, by the strength of the right-hand muscle that pushed the green button voted, will have to change, because unless the proper changes to the law exist only on paper, but they are inapplicable. That is why I call on you to bear in mind in the voting day this amendment of Mr. Milajic and this amendment of Mr. Milovan Radovanovic, because the goal we would like to achieve these amendments is to make this law look like law, to be applicable. You can boast freely that in democratic procedure you have come to this law, to the good provisions of the law. As you can see, we respect this procedure, we cultivate, because the SRS is a state-of-the-art party and by fighting for parliamentaryism in Serbia has also won Serbia's statehood and history respects it, the citizens respect it, too, and you must respect it with much more respect to address and qualify for the SRS. It accepts all democratic fluids and democratic procedures. We don't mind the head of a delegation representing one of the smallest parties in the National Assembly. Why don't we have a problem? Because we have accepted democratic procedures and we respect democratic procedures. All the big Democrats boast that the form keeps the content and that democracy in one part is a purely formal issue. If so, then let me remind you, the Democrats have been lurking here with identification cards, more prominently; and you have seen today's newspaper, the epilogue of their democracy is that one has been suspended, and all of this has been criticised by the Serbian Radical Party. Those who want to lead a political match with the SRS and I warn and inform, each word speaks best of who put it. I don't mind any ladies, I don't mind any MPs in the National Assembly, because I don't wonder, because you are here by the will of the people. I don't mind being attacked, let them attack me, they probably have a reason to attack me. Let them keep an eye on how they represent their country abroad and what kind of message they send from Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party never sends such a message to anyone abroad about Serbia. If we have internal problems, this is where we need to solve them. The SRS raises its voice and will not allow anyone, as a member of the state delegation, to go abroad, to move on, to spit on the SRS, and even less, we will allow the officials who lead, such as Gordana Comic and some, to continue her dirty work in debauchery of the SRS. Anyone who muds any party abroad in Serbia does damage Serbia. If we have political disagreements, please, please, let us resolve them immediately. You're not looking for a mediator on the side.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28439	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Shall we start with the SRS parliamentary group, Mr. Baralic, four more minutes? Here you go, Mr. Jojic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in her statement, my colleague Ms. Natasa Jovanovic promoted me to the rank of general, in fact that was before, I was the Chief Inspector, and that was the most calling that was then in the police, not the calling of generals, which today can be ranked according to the police's names, etc. Just for the sake of truth and clarification of this fact. Ladies and gentlemen, I am familiar with the circumstances and methodology of the use of data when it comes to identifying identities and documents that determine the identity of certain persons. What I would like to point out is that was the reason for proposing such a bill. The proposer explains: "In the post of prevention and the fight against terrorism and other forms of criminal activity, the issue of identification documents deals with the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the Council of Europe and its bodies and many other international organisations, and there are numerous international standards, recommendations and directives in this area. "What bothers us Serbian radicals, we have a serious objection: define the law and explain that the directives are absolutely unacceptable. If this is a directive, please, gentlemen of the Ministry, come out and show that directive, who gave our country the directive, translate it into Serbian so that we can all read and that all citizens of Serbia know whose directive it is and on what basis we need to adhere to some international standards. If the reasons are to contain terrorism and crime, I must say that our police have a historical experience, at the highest level of the world. So far, we have succeeded with our strong service of internal affairs to detect the most serious crimes, even when it comes to organised crime. The basic identification document that was in the proposal, the identity card, and so far has existed; and so far our authorities have been in a position to determine identity, to reveal and shed light on criminal offences, to report perpetrators of criminal acts, to bring in competent authorities, i.e. The Court of Justice shall take certain repressive measures and preventive measures in order to determine the identity of certain persons. We do not know whether we have any translation, specifically from some parallel police in Europe, that we can compare whether this proposal of our law that is now before Parliament resembles and whether it will look like a law on personal documents of France, Germany, England, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, America, Australia, Russia, Belarus, etc. The MPs should have proposed, and that was lagging behind, because the promoter did not decide to.... (President:Time. ) I will explain the next amendment. (President: Please, before this amendment, an MP has come forward, and you will explain the next amendment, you will come forward. On that occasion, I assume you'll stick to the amendment. Here, finish now. All right, let's get a colleague over here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28441	It's a similar type of amendment, it's the same three months and six months, so I asked, after Mr. Baralic answered. Mr. Jojic wanted to continue following the next amendment, since it is a similar amendment. Here you go, Mr. Baralic, this is an amendment to Article 33. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28442	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior, I have come forward because this amendment mentions deadlines in which it is necessary to pass a sublaw in the implementation of the law. Not entering the argument of the government that proposed six, both Mr Krasic and the SRS amendment at all where it is said to be three, I would like to say that our political part should be that the legislators, whenever there is a possibility, with the law of the People's MPs, deliver and the future appearance of a sublaw, even if the draft, that we can understand how things will work when the law is passed and what its application will be. Some parliaments in Europe, several of them, have such a practice. True, several laws are passed annually in these parliaments, and there is live legislative activity here, and it would not be possible in such a way that all of this is washed away, the legislation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia could not accompany all of this, nor the corresponding services in the ministries where this is proposed. But despite all these circumstances, there is good practice and there is a need, especially in some laws that are very important, that MPs get a draft of sublegal acts when they get a bill, that they simply see how things work when the law is passed. Of course, it would be ideal if the laws were perfect and if there were no need for sublegal acts, but we know that there are areas where this is not possible, and some laws do not need to be burdened with details, there is no need to overstretched something that can be solved in another way. I am speaking to each of you, and to whoever writes the law and who sends them to the MPs in parliament, because maybe we should introduce this practice wherever possible, because there are enough arguments for and there are areas where nothing depends on time, but depends on the procedure and where this principle can be applied. I'm not saying it's this law, it's possible in some others. We have now received information from the SCG state that will belong to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the state of Serbia, and there will be some laws. It is very important, MPs, that journalists, that the public knows that a law will be applied and perhaps we would be easier to plead for one of the solutions in the laws if we had a proposal for sublegal acts, we might not have to write amendments, because some of them are contained in these acts. It was my idea, I don't compromise on the law's solution, or the amendment, because everyone has their reasons. I also had my own, and I would pray, whenever possible, here's a specific MUP in some next law, we'd do better and more quality work if what I was talking about was solved this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28443	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. In accordance with Article 225. Rules of Procedure, we have part of the notice on what you were talking about: therefore, six months of activity in encouraging institutions that did not adopt sublegal acts, which is why it is too late to implement the law, plus education, plus taking over jurisdiction and what is spoken of, post-recognition of the work, but this is basic and I think this proposal will help everyone. Thank you very much. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word wants First People's MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28444	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this isn't about the classic bill we've brought so far. This is about the kind of stamping of Serbian citizens. Radoje Domanović wrote in his own time, it seemed to me, "Danga," where every citizen's seal was hit, and here's the difference between the seal and the chip just because the captain had to approach and see what it says on the seal, whether you're from his principle or from someone else, and here all the data will blend into the MUP and every second someone will have to, or be able to control you and where you are, and what you're doing, and how much money you have and what you think. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's not funny at all. If this was worth something to this Europe (in which you want to introduce us once, because I don't believe how you started, for the next 20 years to get us in), then this whole Europe would have these very personal maps of biometric data, or chips. I'll read you just one thing: in the United States, Great Britain and Canada, it also started making identification cards that will have a chip in them; this process, however, comes across violent reactions from the public and is far from being achieved. In the United States, where the level of democracy is maximum, at least that's what these American students say, people have classic ID cards and regular, classic passports. Let me remind you, since it is "Motoroli's" equipment, which Dusan Mihajlovic imported and 102m euros spent on it, what the first man "Motorole" says on Serbia, and also on Serbs, and also on that equipment; Thomas Soke said in November 2003, and he is otherwise the director of the Biometry sector at the Motorola company, enthusiastically saying that Serbia is an extinct country, and at least in something more advanced than everyone in Europe, in police control of its population. Here are his words – Serbia introduces the most advanced system for identifying citizens and issuing personal documents in Europe and one of the best in the world. The European Union and other countries are moving towards biometric documents, i.e. automatic identification of fingerprints or persons, but Serbia is in front of them. Why didn't you bring us the standard of European for six years, to be in something above Europe, not to control when a citizen is out on the street? There is one more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Jeremy Bentham came up with this idea in 1791, which was first attended by Mihajlovic, which Jocic generously accepted. However, he was talking about the constant surveillance of prisoners who prison guards are conducting from the watchtowers. Michelle Fuko described the 20th century society as a prison just thanks to the gathering of data on people being conducted by the state. So, in the Serbian dictionary, you are building a large prison from the Serbian state where all Serbian citizens will be prisoners that you will be able to control at any moment. When those of you who tried, and without the radicals, you couldn't change me in 2000, when they took me into custody, I saw something that was amazing, but now, after these laws, it's all likely: you have a window of 80 centimeters on the toilet that the guard can see what you're doing inside. You're installing that little window in Serbia so you can control everything. What about human rights, ladies and gentlemen, what is it called citizens' freedom at all? What is it that will be called the freedom of citizens of Serbia if you continue like this? With what right do you deny basic human rights to Serbian citizens by introducing a chip? Professor Vojislav Seselj did not want to accept the computer in the detention unit for a simple reason that he is much smarter than all of you and knows what he can do with the computer on the way in. Speaking of this law, why don't you apply it immediately, why don't you say eight days from the day of entry into force? What are you leaving him for six months, knowing that after two or three months you will no longer be in power? I understand, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the desire of some to be photographed in front of TV cameras. People get used to it, because every cell in prison has a surveillance camera, so they get used to the camera to be controlled, but that's what you do, not all of Serbia, put all Serbian citizens under direct supervision. What about abuse of service? Was one of the cases that the service, any service, police, BIA, was abused? Then what about human rights? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest on behalf of the SRS that this legislative project will not pass in the day of voting. Let's not run in front of Europe. Now that you've failed to raise our standard, don't even control it, don't. Orwell wrote, invented, but today Orwell wouldn't have to make up anything, he could have come here and just taken notes. Radje Domanovic invented "Danga" when he wrote. If the late Radoje Domanovic were alive now, he might also be able to catch notes here, see what kind of laws you're passing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28445	Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28446	Ladies and gentlemen, the promoter himself explained that this equipment was purchased in 2003. This coincides with the introduction of the "Sabbe" action, but the proposer has probably thought in the last three years whether this should be applied in Serbia or not. It took three years for the equipment to be used. I don't understand why this is being introduced into Serbia. If you see article 28 and analyze the provisions of that article, you will see that there are numerous possibilities of abuse. If you look at Article 29, criminal provisions, if someone abuses data, that of an unauthorized person, the one who is authorized to handle that data in the depot doesn't answer to anyone. How is it to pass in Article 29 without sanctions and penalties for those who are unauthorized and abused, enabling someone's personal data from a person and a citizen of the Republic of Serbia? There'll be as many strangers here as you want. If he is the head of the service of one political party, do not trust him, he will abuse the position whenever the leader of his political party or his party's like-minded party asks him to. As for the height of the sentence, Articles 29 and 30 are very high. It is not appropriate to prescribe fines of 50,000 dinars or prison sentences of 30 days, if the person did not own a ID card; these are those provisions in paragraph 1) - which do not have a personal card on the contrary; it may not be presently on him. Whoever is authorized to apply this provision has a lot of right to say – you had no ID, you were deprived of freedom, come with me, handcuffs and he goes to jail. That's the way it is, 'cause a cop won't think any other way. He's thinking about how it's prescribed in law, I have the authority to deprive him of his freedom and I have the right to put handcuffs on my hands. A man went to prison just because he didn't have his ID card, because he was in his shirt, he wasn't in his jacket, and his jacket or his home left his ID card. I think, ladies and gentlemen, this is too strict. Or, if a person doesn't apply for an I.D. within a certain period of time, another 30 days in prison. Let it be said - a fine, but a fine is appropriate; or to say, it will be fined in three days, or 48 hours in detention, until his identity is established. There would be reason, there would be justification, especially for persons who are not known to the territorial authorities, found in a particular area, unknown in that place, to be detained until certain means of communication has been established, and we have modern means of communication. Please, it is possible to quickly determine his identity by other means of communication in our police force. If something had to be done with those 100m euros, then it was necessary to buy other equipment for police members who needed it and, on the other hand, to increase their personal incomes to people working by 150 euros; 330,000 salaries could have been paid to the police, with 150 euros or 200, from this amount. You see when the equipment was bought, the equipment was bought at the time of the introduction of the Sabre, or right after it. The law is not passed for individual cases. The law is passed for general application and general application. You see, at that time someone was authorized to buy such equipment, which is not in use in EU countries richer than Serbia. It would be nice if you could inform the MPs from the MUP in which country and by which model and by which methodology, but if you say, give one identification card that will be in the police depot, let's see what it looks like and what minimum and maximum personal data it should contain. As a result, it remains unclear that all data will be pooled by electronic data processing in the police. Today he's a DSS minister, tomorrow he'll be from another political party, of course, you can judge for yourself what he's going to be from, I wouldn't want to talk about it, so he'll be back on shifts, etc., but he needs to prevent abuses and not leave empty space. That's why I advocate, ladies and gentlemen, that there must be a responsibility for whoever gives and announces the data that is of a personal nature guaranteed by the Constitution and by law, an unauthorized person. In my deep conviction, based on the practice so far, who can access and search for information? The data may be used by a specific police officer and the court may require personal data to conduct the procedure. These two state authorities may be empowered to search for information and to provide them with information. All those others who are pushed into this basket, please don't trust them, will abuse it, will harm the citizens and will come into conflict and conflict with constitutional powers, and on the other hand with constitutional freedoms and the rights of our citizens. It's not a simple question. I believe the members of the police will take care of who they give the information to, but only at the request of the court and no one else. The NGOs will now ask you for information about the minister and the one from the political party, that citizen, that teacher, that artist, and what I know, not to mention. Now, that's not allowed, and that opens up these numerous possibilities. We are a member of Interpol long ago and we use their data and we provide them with data, but I must say, this law is inaccurate. Secondly, norms are not subject to anyone's control, especially those who need to collect data, are deposited by electronic processing in a police authority, and have even less protection of citizens' rights because everyone will be able to search and there will be numerous abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28447	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I thank you for the debate, and I thank the representatives of the MUP for their help. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSION OF THE PALJOPRIVAL LAND (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Mika Vlaović, Arsen Kurjački, Vitomir Plužarević, Milorad Krstin, Ivan Radić, Radiša Ilic, Prvoslav Savić, Stojan Cvetković, Zoran Mašić, Lazar Cavic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Antić, Stevica Dedjanski, Zoran Angelković and Živorad Smiljanić, as well as amendments of the Committee on Agriculture and the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Mika Vlaović to the article. 27th and 85th and Arsen Kurjački in Art. 64th and 80th. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28448	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, we continue to do contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see here a representative of the bill's proposal, and I think it would be good, and that it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, that the motionor's representative be here with the MPs. (President: He will come. He'll be here when? These days or today? (President: No, he's been informed and he should be here any minute.) Well, if it was notified or notified, then it was either to take a break or to be notified in time, not to talk here without having a response from the government. In Article 1 The proposal for a law on agricultural land, among other things in paragraph 2, proposed: "This law educates the administration of agricultural land, as the authority of the administration within the ministry of agriculture affairs, and regulates its work. "A colleague Vitomir Plužarevic has suggested that this position 2 in Article 1 be deleted, because it is primarily the principled position of the SRS that certain ministries within the framework of the section and the affairs that are legally foreseen for a particular ministry can work with people who are employed in ministries, with experts in ministries. The fact that ministers, present or former, are not experts does not mean that they are not also people who are employed in the ministries, but of course it is necessary to set up jobs properly and provide jobs for them. The introduction of this administration is a trace of this government and of the previous two governments, so the government of Kostunica -- Dulic -- and before that, the government of Zivkovic -- and the government of Djindjic -- has introduced some fashion into our legislation to introduce each law by some administration, by some agencies. Of course, all of this serves to settle any internal or inter-party accounts, to provide support to the government, to some coalition negotiations. The last pearl, I'll remind you, is this ski resort agency, where the MPs of the former assembly, the SCG Assembly, are adopted. Of course, this agricultural land administration will be some new foster home for members of G17 plus. What is going to happen is neither important nor formed to do anything positive in agriculture, as this law is not proposed to do anything positive in agriculture or to benefit Serbian farmers from this government and this law. The law will not contribute to improving the material position, nor the safety of farmers in Serbia. This law will not guarantee the price of raspberries, milk, wheat; it will not help a certain Zvonko Rankovic, who burned his 10,000-euro fruit plantation due to then Minister Dulic-Markovic and the agriculture ministry's relations with his agricultural household. This law will not contribute to anything better in the area of agriculture. I don't just know if this one, and this morning a statement has been published in some newspapers as the most pearl of the past week, a foreign minister's party colleague, now Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dulic, Mr. Jelasic, who said: "I'm growing potatoes, tomatoes, peas, raspberries and strawberries, I bathe the garden every day, we'll also make our own homemade velvet jam." That is what Jelasic says, but he is not doing this on agricultural land, but in the yard of the 1m-euro villa, and he paid sales tax on the villa for only 300,000 euros. So it's that fairy where there's a huge tax evasion at work by the governor of the National Bank. Here, dear colleagues and the public of Serbia, if you were wondering why this villa was so expensive, even though Jelasic was hiding the right price, you see, in the yard and the fairies therefore succeeds and potatoes, and tomatoes, and peas and raspberries, and the real, rich, man and homemade velvet jam. Now, this law is for these and these, which, of course, have nothing to do with agriculture, but also have something to do with financing in Serbia: Jelasic, Dinkic, and Dulic-Markovic. All the laws proposed by this group within the government of Kostunica - Dulic, which was recently the government of Kostunica - Labus, are exclusively for private use, exclusively for wealth and for the provision of further robbery by this encrypted group within the Serbian government. I would like to ask the attention of those who can only sit here and listen and cannot participate in the work, except that the ministers, or vice-president of the government, are sub-presidents of the government, and I would like to ask that the Members of Parliament who pay tribute to their colleagues and the public of Serbia be respected. When Mr Vita Plužarevic suggested that Article 2 be deleted. The bill, then, explained that the SRS is opposed to an unfounded increase in the state administration, as planned by Articles 1, 78 and 79 of this law, because the Ministry of Agriculture has so far cared about state land, in line with the Ministry's internal organisation. It can't be an excuse to start a farm land administration, which, by the way, costs a new 70 million dinars of budget funds, or 70 million dinars from Serbian citizens' pockets to finance the management of Ivana Dulic-Markovic, just because of the state's leased land, because it is an explanation that this new administration is being created because of the state land's lease. All those who have ever worked in the state administration or in the local self-government know well that this state land issue job will not be hired by the Ministry, that it will be a entrusted job to local self-government units, that all local self-government units have either a service or a reference in charge of agriculture. Through this service and property and legal services, for financial affairs, so this will be one of the entrusted transactions to local self-government units. By the way, Dinkic asks local self-government to reduce the number of employees by 10%, otherwise he threatens not to give them the funds voted in this parliament for local self-government. So local self-government will get another job, and the Ministry of Agriculture and the former minister, and now vice-president of the government, 70 million dinars from Serbian citizens' pockets. The government says this amendment is not accepted for the reasons that it is the performance of development, imagine, and professional affairs in the fields of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, a job that requires a special organisation and a large number of employees, so that this work is done in an adequate manner. We would understand that the Ministry and the Government tell us that, within the Ministry of Agriculture, another number of people should be employed, experts for some specific areas, although we do not think there is a need, given that from 2000 to now, the number of employees by the ministries has been so increased that no one is alive and knows how many in which ministry of newly employed "experts", "experts", mostly those who have studied for nine, ten years, and then Labus went to the Faculty of Economics and Law, and with all of these self-called experts agreed to complete the university's emergency procedure, and to show up, training in black suits, broad ties, shirts, of course, and to appear as experts around the world and across Europe, where they send them on state spending. The government further says: "This area is very large and requires the establishment of not only the agriculture land administration, but also a series of special organisations that would deal with this problem." Our question is: if there will be a number more of these special organizations, besides this administration, what will the Ministry do, what will the newly elected minister do, what has the minister who is now Deputy Prime Minister done so far? When you elected Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dulic-Markovic, we said that it was completely normal and logical, before she was taking an advance from the post of Prime Minister to the post of Deputy Prime Minister, to report on her work to this Parliament, so that we could see where this was spent three times the budget for agriculture, which was voted in this House, so that we could see where the loans were split for, allegedly, the farmers, to which parts of Serbia, in which people, in particular, how many loans and on what basis did she get the company of close associate Mrs. Dulic-Markovic, and today as a member of the People's Parliament? Many questions remain to be answered by Mrs Dulic-Markovic. He should also answer the question to Mr. Zvonko Rankovic, who, as I said, burned down his orchard waste worth 10,000 dinars because the ministry did not give him credit to improve production. Further says the Ministry and the Government: "In EU countries, as well as in EU candidate countries, protection, planning and use of agricultural land are carried out by the authorities in the form of ministries and special organisations." I don't know how we are a candidate for EU accession, especially how we are an EU country. Not that I know of. As far as I know, it's hard to be. I would like to say that we Serbian radicals believe that we should engage in EU entry, but on one condition – that the EU guarantees Serbia territorial integrity and guarantees Serbia Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. The Government further says: "Arrival land is a natural wealth, that is, well of general interest, as well as forests and waters for which the Board of Forests and Water Directorate have been educated, as the authorities of the administration within the Ministry." It's a good thing the Ministry has mentioned the forest management here, because they're also in the Forest Administration and in the "Serbishum" officials from G17 plus. It is so drastically destroying forest property in Serbia that it is really scary. I was in Raška County last weekend, when people showed me at work between Novi Pazar and Tutina that certain members of G17 plus and close friends Ivana Dulic-Markovic, believe it or not, were building up parts of the forest. The state woods fenced the part and that's where someone's forest is! So that kind of thing is done in this ministry, and that kind of thing is about state spending, that is, the cost of Serbian citizens forming all kinds of agencies and all kinds of administrations. I see it's been 15 minutes, allow me just one more minute. The issue is also for Mrs Dulic-Markovic, and concerns the privatisation of the Srpce Association. I've already talked about it, but since I haven't received an answer, I must, on behalf of those people living in Strpce, explain and tell what they wrote to the MPs and the Ministry, of course. They say, "In accordance with Article 5(6) of the operational policies and procedures of the Kosovo Trust Agency, we want to inform you at least ten days before the privatisation tender is announced. We are informing the municipality and the workers of the company concerned. The DP Srpce Association in Strpce was chosen to join the 16th round of privatisation, which will be officially announced on 23 May 2006. The date for the public delivery of bids will be 26 July 2006. The subject of the exchanges in the coming days refers to the current units to be sold as part of the new company during the tender. The new sheep farm in Rakaja DOO consists of a plot of 31 hectares 9 acres and 92 metres square and farm in the village of Rakaj near Urosjevac; The new farm farm plot in Korbiljec DOO consists of a land of 9 acres and 92 square meters (the land of Korbiljec is the land of Kacanic, otherwise there is a caraula on the border of Serbia and Macedonia); the new farm land in Sopot DoO consists of a land of 29 hectares of 17 acres and 13 square meters. More detailed information on the tender and tendering procedures will be available through Kosovo's trust agency in Gjilan and Pristina. During this privatisation process, we expect co-operation with the DP Srpce Association, the Rakaj Department. We thank you for your continued co-operation." John Harmer is the head of the regional office in Gjilan who signed this. So, the Serbs from Strpc are asking the minister, the ministry, the government, the Prime Minister, to protect them from such privatisations, to protect them from the purchase of the Serbian country in this way to legitimise themselves before this EU of yours, not the one they advocated Serbian radicals. I expect, Mrs Dulic-Markovic, to answer all the questions I have raised here on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28449	I thank Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28450	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I would like to say a few words about this amendment to Article 1. The amendment shall consist of the removal in Article 1(2). Let me remind you, today we're talking about the agricultural land law. In the principle debate, we heard that there are over four million hectares of agricultural land in Serbia. You will agree with me, as well as with the letter of the law, that, slightly speaking, it is good. Agricultural land is, of course, one of the most important resources in agricultural production. As far as I'm concerned, this is one of the better laws on agricultural land currently in the environment, that is, in Europe. It would be unserious of the promoter if he did not predict who would take care of four million hectares of agricultural land in Serbia. This law regulates the planning, protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as other issues of importance for the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land as a common good. Therefore, to delete Article 2 which states that this law establishes the administration within the ministry... So far, we have listened to various objections, if an agency is established, but only the land administration is being educated here, as is already the forest management, water management, etc. My opinion, as a MP, is that it would not be a good idea to accept this amendment, to delete the Ministry's obligation to take care of those four million hectares. Since agricultural loans were referred to, the question was asked, it was a little unusual – loans are shared. No, for the sake of the public, loans are granted on request. It's divided, as you've heard, over 50,000 short-term loans. I know it's something new in this country. It is possible, I accept, that it bothers someone, that this is causing fear, but more than 50,000 short-term loans have been granted at the request of a loan-seeker from the Republic of Serbia's budget through business banks. Therefore, over 5,000 long-term loans. Again, these are not loans that are distributed proportionally, territorially, but are granted at the request being processed. I don't think this amendment really needs to be accepted, because this Assembly of the Sea, in accordance with the Constitution, of Article 72, is to take care of this agricultural land which is a very important resource because 40% of Serbian citizens live on agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28451	Thank you. The Belief of Radet, misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28452	I don't know if it was intentional or accidental, but an esteemed colleague either didn't listen to me or wanted to turn the story in some other direction to forget what I said. Why did you say a colleague should refuse this amendment? He says, because it's inadmissible to deny the ministry the means to obtain from the land's lease. We just don't want it to be denied to the ministry, and we insist that the Ministry does it, not that some kind of agricultural land administration is being formed for that purpose. One more thing, all the questions I have asked here were addressed to Mrs Ivani Dulic-Markovic, an esteemed colleague, not to you. You couldn't answer, you didn't know who the loans were, or how the loans were shared. You're an honorable man, doing your job. I asked him to explain to me who I know did this job in a criminal way, which is Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28453	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, however, I would like to replicate to Mr Kronic, with all due respect to the knowledge of the area of agricultural production, but in Article 79, which we have invested in the amendment, it is said that the management of agricultural land in the state property is talking about the affairs of the administration and at point 1). So the primary task of the administration that wants to be established by this law is governance of the state. So it's not about the 4.3 million hectares that the citizens of Serbia have in total, but about 270 or 350,000 hectares of the state country, of which 100,000 hectares of restitution will be returned to the owners of which the country has been seized. The essence of our remark is precisely in relation to the size of the country that the state will have, and especially what this bill proposes, the few state countries that remain to be sold. But I hope that an SPS amendment that is explicit will be adopted, that the country cannot be sold, so at least if the administration is established, it will be managed by those 200 or as many thousands of hectares. Therefore, the basis of our objection to not establishing a administration and accepting our amendment is precisely what is the basis for action, so land management in state property. It also states in the government's explanation that in EU countries, as well as in EU candidate countries, protection, planning and use of agricultural land are carried out by the authorities in the form of ministries and special organisations. So you're not saying that these are just administrations. True, within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, there are several administrations that have been organised for many years and that function. In the area of protection, use and total care of land and so far, someone at the Ministry has been engaged, so whoever worked, organize, create a new internal organization and continue to work, and not as you explained that you should employ new 20 people, buy computers, buy cars and spend 70 million dinars. SRS MPs are against it, against spending money on administrative affairs for Serbian citizens. The 70 million dinars and the 200 million you've allocated to pay for the storage of wheat, here we suggest that for this 70 million you increase that 200 million budget for the storage of at least the farmers who sowed the wheat last year so that they can store it on a larger scale. Like this, a very small number of people will be able to store, especially when you said the price of storage would be 750 dinars per tonne. Count how many tons that is, how much of that 200 million you'll be able to store. You're already in trouble because you have pressure from citizens and from the province government, exactly how to deal with this year's wheat.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28455	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Zoran Mašić, the mandated representative of the SRS. You too, Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28456	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as much as my memory serves, I didn't mention renting agricultural land. Therefore, I think I am misread, given that the amendment to Article 1 is paragraph 2; my esteemed colleague mentioned Article 79. I did not answer incompetently on this issue, because Mr. Masic, Mr. Mika Vlaovic and my little one we are just in charge of the Committee on Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia Assembly to monitor the allocation of credit, of course, as they are assigned. Therefore, I did not speak of loans uninformed about these problems. Only the public does, as far as the administration is concerned, in article 79, and I think citizens should know, stand, one, manage agricultural land... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... in the state property, but it is not the sole business of the administration; it performs inspection and professional work in the field of agricultural land; then, it establishes an information system on agricultural land; it allocates resources to carry out work and monitors the implementation of the annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia; it monitors the production of a agricultural base; it manages the register of agricultural bases and performs other tasks. Eight points, just for the sake of the public and the proper information of the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28457	I thank the MP. Here you go. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still think there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Since you've been trying so hard to say that you've been talking about loans, I'm going to go back to those loans. What is it, Mr. Vlaovic? Some kind of pain? It's not the credit. It's not even the farmer's fault, so our farm is ruined. (President: Mr. Vlaovicu, do not disturb Mr. Krstin. See, if we don't do something like this now, why don't you come out for a pay phone and a little bit of you and a little me? As for the loan, I'm glad to have it in front of me from the Ministry of Agriculture, but it bothers me that the distribution of these loans has been made. I specifically noted, we asked, thanks to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Dr Zoran Mašić, to explain how 180 million were approved for irrigation systems at the Ministry of Development of these systems, only three entities received 60 million each. That's the answer, three subjects. We were looking for names, last names, we had a committee that went there with three members, headed by Dr Zoran Mašić. We didn't get what three subjects got, gentlemen, at 60 million each. Five years is a loan, one year is a grace period, and that entity was supposed to pay back 15 million a year. So 15 times four is 60 million. Wouldn't it have been more logical to get 60 million each than to get three million each? Is Serbia and this agriculture based on only three people, i.e. On three subjects? I don't even know if they're agricultural goods, if they're known tycoons that have so many bought surfaces. Here, however, I will publicly ask the question, as I asked the parliamentary question, I will use the pay phone to give us names, names or names of these three entities that have received 60 million for irrigation systems. Believe me, you have two irrigation systems that are famous for us in Serbia, i.e. In Vojvodina, it's a system of rangers and a typhon system. If it's supposed to cost that much, then I really don't see why someone needs that much to get. It's just a small part of what we on the SRS Agriculture Committee asked to see, see how much anybody got in the districts. All we got were numbers, and we didn't get names or last names. We didn't get anything at all. Nothing could have been recognizable in that document that we asked to see which faces were in the municipalities and in the districts. We got the numbers. (President: Time.) ) I don't know, the Central Bank district got 86 long-term loans, 2600 short-term loans. I don't mind short-term loans, but you know who gets long-term loans. You know who gets it; you get it, gentlemen, you get it from line G17. I am responsible for this speaker, so just give us the names and last names, so we also have members of the Committee who got, their sons, as my colleague Rafaelovic tells me – I did not get, he got my son. I don't know if it's exactly 20,000 or 30,000 euros. I didn't get any short-term, no radicals got any. (President: Time.) ) Therefore, you have a parliamentary question, I have asked publicly, to deliver the names and last names of those three who have received 60 million for the development of the irrigation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28459	Mr. Vlaovicu, have you given up? Yes, it is. Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mika Vlaovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28460	Dear Vice President Angelkovic, you first read who submitted all the amendments. Among those names you haven't read me, I have four amendments. Okay, it doesn't matter. After that, there is an amendment to Article 1, Verica Radet, she represents an MP of the Radicals, and I have specifically submitted an amendment and I have nothing to do with that amendment, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28461	I read you, Mr. Parrish, but you hear other people's names and you don't hear yours, otherwise I read you, I even pointed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28462	I followed well, it wasn't, it doesn't matter, I don't blame it, it can be wrong when it presides. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28463	Yeah, but I wasn't wrong. I read you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28464	Therefore, you were unable to move on to another member, because I have an amendment to Article 1. This amendment is very clear, understandable, clear to everyone. In Article 1(2), paragraph 2 is deleted, which means that the agriculture administration should not be formed. I have reasons to say that, because I think we're just going to build up the administration and have a set of state apparatus, but the Ministry of Agriculture is acting on the reputation of the rest of the ministries, because it's become a practice since 2000, we're saying that some tails are forming, some additions, some administrations, agencies, and the agency. It's just job openings, that state apparatus. No one's taking employees anywhere anymore, you can just get a job... But who's going to take it more, because on one side there's a reduction in the number of execs, there's a reduction in the number of workers, every boss when he buys half-offs, where we're going, let's go to the ministry. It would be good if you could hire anyone there, but you can't, there's only a question of which party you're from, whose book you're wearing, etc. I'm afraid this ministry will fill you out of a party, too, but that's not a sign they'll vote for you. When you do to him and hire him, there's nothing more to ask of you, because he votes for someone, because he needs a place for a woman, or maybe an apartment or something else. I think it's crucial that no one works agriculture here, but everyone would like to come work at the farm office. Now let's go to every peasant, one of us will put a black man there to dig, and the three of us will write, manage him, draw him where he'll pass, what kind of hooch he should wear, etc. We won't get far with agriculture like this. I say again, if we continue like this, not only won't people deal with agriculture, but this country will have to pay whoever wants to live in the country, because no one will live there. Why don't they all come to these administrations of yours that you're forming, to some agencies, because what we need villages, what Serbia's villages are going to need. Furthermore, for everything else I think we have terrible conditions for every village and people are increasingly committed to cities, there are more empty villages, in certain municipalities everything is empty, everyone is heading towards the city. When you go and when you hold those party meetings, they gather, they come there, but they gather because you go to bigger centers, because nobody else is in the villages. So once again, at this time and in this state, we don't need the formation of such administrations, the admission of workers, because this country won't be able to take it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28465	Mr. Peric spoke under Article 1, on which he submitted the amendment in the same text as MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Anyone else want to talk about that amendment? No, I don't. So we're finally moving on to Article 2. National MP Mika Vlaovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the acceptance of this amendment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a direct submission to the Autonomous Authority, because the basic bill in Article 6 states that the agricultural basis of the AP Vojvodina is brought by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, as the agricultural base of local units brings the assembly of local self-government units. However, the province's assembly has tabled an amendment proposing that the agricultural base bring an executively larger autonomous province, according to the ministry's previous opinion, and publishes in the Official Messenger of the AP Vojvodina. So, by accepting the amendments, it is essentially up to DS and other parties that make up power in Vojvodina, because I see no reason to put in the same position the Republic Government, which primarily brings agricultural grounds to the Republic of Serbia, means that the government, and other agricultural bases of the AP and local self-government, would be logical to bring units, i.e. the Parliament of the AP and the Assembly of Local Self-Government, i.e. the So. The adoption of the amendments is going to a subjugation that I do not understand and I do not see why the decision of the Regional Government, especially as agricultural grounds are being made, should I say, for a longer period of time, be a commitment if it was made by the Government; ultimately, it would be more logical here for the agricultural base of the Republic to be made up by the Government and adopted by the Assembly, because then it would have much more power and commitment. This is how the agricultural foundation of the Republic will have power as long as it is ruled by the government that brought it. The moment she comes down from the political scene, some other government will reconsider all that and most likely change. Especially in the region, where circumstances have formed such a government as it was formed, I don't think the Republic Government has any basis to through such an amendment, and through some others we're going to explain, raise and make certain benefits that essentially don't belong to it, even by the omnibus law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28467	The same amendment is said by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28468	This amendment must not be accepted. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the amendment, which is the amendment that Bojan Pajtic, the one who used to fly cards here in 2003 during "Sablje", although I feel bad that I didn't reach him well at the time... But what is it? The constitutional position of the Republic is undermined by the adoption of this amendment. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the legislative authority belongs to the National Assembly and is headed by the executive authority by the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The laws are carried out by the Government and the competent state authorities. The adoption of this act here called a agricultural base for one territory is an act of law enforcement. Only one which by definition belongs to the executive authority can bring that act. The executive power is able to transfer some of its powers, but it can only benefit if the National Assembly trusts the law to carry out certain tasks from the jurisdiction of the state administration to lower authorities, specifically the authorities of autonomy and bodies of local self-government units. In practice so far, when something from its original jurisdiction, the Republic passed through law on to local self-government, units of local self-government, as a rule, appeared to be used by the local self-government assembly in the sense of solving through general acts, and this is in the final position of this member when it comes to the grounds for the territory of the unit of local self-government. If you're already transferring it to the AP level, then the only person in charge of the AP can only be the authority the government has proposed in the bill of this law, which is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. So, if that's what you proposed by the bill, this amendment to Pajtic if you later adopted, you violated the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you're all aware that that omnibus law has nothing to do with it. Take care, because such unconstitutional provisions may be subject to review before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and I am not sure that there will be such a composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia as it is right now, where you consider it to be beneficial for those in power, given that a large number of people meet the conditions for retirement. Probably the president of the Republic had to reconsider who these pensioners are in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28469	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the Committee on Agriculture, I tried to clarify Agriculture Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic and her associates, however, some understanding was not for this amendment and I will now try to show that he should enter the agricultural land law so that, normally, and legally possible this law could be essentially. Namely, Article 8 states: "Agricultural core units of local self-government contain in particular: 1) objectives, tasks and basic settings of protection, arrangements and use of agricultural land; 2) data and information for the production of a agricultural base; 3) protection of agricultural land; 4) use of agricultural land; 5) regulation of agricultural land" etc. I ask that a new point 6 be added – editing, maintenance and use of canals and embankments on the channel network and rivers. There, the minister said, in the sense that this would fall, item 6), to the Vojvodina and Serbian enterprises, not to refer to agricultural land. I have to put out one fact: there's a Tisa-Dunav channel, there's sewers, there's irrigation channels. These channels aren't just a rash, they're finished, so it's going to be a working area right now. On the contrary, just from the crown of the embankment or the bottom of the embankment stretches one larger surface, and only then do the working surfaces of the land move. These working surfaces of the land are next to the canals for irrigation systems, and it is logical to produce something that is the best quality, especially seed goods. When I say seed goods, we had people who produced carrots in the Northbanat County, but since that belt that I led to a processing surface is subject to a wild carrot in production, it was normal for mating and our seed goods, I mean the carrot, to be returned from Russia. There's another part, let's put that carrot aside, there's this job that's going to show another story, and it's a wild orphan. It's the greatest evil that ever appeared in Vojvodina. However, there is something else that is not so clear to you. It's that you don't have the co-operation of the Serbian and the Vojvodina enterprises; the channels are abandoned, buried. Canals aren't even used 2% of their purpose. The biggest item in a pair's tax is to drain water, 75% of the tax is to drain water. Come now to see at the entrance to my inhabited place, where it is produced, the Municipality of Zrenjanin is known for the production of young potatoes and cabbages, because it is the land that gives two crops a year. A young potato is extracted, cabbage is planted, people are harvested by the end of November, in early December, it's completely underwater. Why? Because the channels don't work, they don't do pumps, and they blame each other for that, the Duke blames "Serbians," and the "Serbian" blames "the Duke". Who's in the middle? Manufacturer, i.e. paor. If more had been done, if you had understood, you would have realized that, if nothing else, there was at least a coordination between the Vojvodina and the Serbians so that this would not happen, that we would have a clean situation in these dikes and the work to the embankment of the irrigation system. at the canals and embankments on the canal network and rivers. According to SPS counterpart Hranislav Peric, not much care is taken about agriculture. He refers to the minister who came as Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Zivkov. You've tried to do something that's slowly pulling us towards Europe. When he drags us to Europe, you lift the premiums. You've lifted the wheat premium, the sunflower, the sugar beet. You left for the oily tail and the pumpkin. But you gave him short-term credits. They canceled, but the premiums don't come back. Credits return at a certain rate of interest. I'm not saying it's some big interest, but mostly they're coming back. How does a farmer who doesn't know the price of wheat plan to apply for a loan in February or January? He's not sure he'll be able to pay back the price of the wheat. I don't know, the price of sunflowers, it's said 175 euros per tonne, it was last year, and there's no inflation we'd have been like that for years, and when I buy some connected machine or tractor the prices of that tractor and those machines are bigger than what you pay me for the sunflower. I went out for a pay phone because I have 40 acres of land now. I'm not selling, I'm buying. With this law, you want to build up, not defile agricultural land. But I'm telling you, by this law, you're going to destroy those who have 5-6 acres, because they're not guilty of having 5, 6 or 10 catastrian mornings, but it's the state's fault that doesn't allow them to expand, and they're not spreading just because they can't, which they don't know and they're not safe at the Ministry of Agriculture and Government. I wish you'd come out now, one of these teams sitting right here in front of me, and say, "The price of wheat, the family of 2006, is going to be 12 dinars and 35 pairs." Here, I'll check in at the first session, if there is one, after the wheat crop is removed, and I'll tell you what the price of the wheat is. And let's do one calculation, see how much it's invested and how much it's going to get. Let's make a calculation for the sugar beet. Gentlemen, we'll import the wheat. We can boast as much here as you want, in fact, to brag, but we're going to import wheat. We don't have enough wheat, since small and weather conditions have said their own, but you said by having to buy a watch, we could only buy for money very expensive, today one hour at a gas station can buy 100 kilos for 2,470 dinars. Is it worth it to a farmer to throw it at the wheat once, if he knows that the maximum may be the price of the wheat of 9.5 dinars? Let him do me a calculation so that he has to count both the plowing, the skating, the sauce, the set, the spraying, the combination, and then you say, "you pay for the storage." So whoever pays for the storage, which is why to pay for the storage when there's nothing to store, it'll go into production immediately. Since our sugar is now a crystal in the shops? Why don't someone go out and say where those production areas are under the sugar tail, when you say we have enough and go to the store and buy for 85 dinars? Sugar at the store, per megamarket, costs 85 dinars. Well, gentlemen, this is not how you run a country whose special branch is agriculture, which has been carrying ten years of sanctions on its back, unfair sanctions. Now you're proposing laws like this where we're just trying to tell you -- supplement with the amendments, regardless, if they're quality, from which political parties they're from, from which they're MP groups. However, as my colleague Hranislav Peric said, I do not know if you know how many households remain and how many empty villages you have. In particular, this refers to the southern part of Serbia and parts of individual districts in Vojvodina. It's a mirror that you think is better for farmers tomorrow. And you won't think until you've done a good thorough organization by stimulating a farmer to process as many countries as possible, to go looking for a lease from one who can't handle it, because it's in years, and there's no one left to continue this farmland processing. If you think that way, we'll have even more unsuspecting surfaces. You didn't put here without reason that those who don't process can rent to another, because you know how many nursing households we have and how bad we have machinery and that people are no longer able to handle such a mechanism in quality. And let's not talk about the fertilizers that appear here; when we examine them, it turns out that certain factories used some natural resources rather than getting into the quality and improvement of that fertilizer. So with this amendment, I wanted to get involved and to improve one part of this law, for the simple reason that we simply have one whole surface and when we get to these sewers of a system of depletion and irrigation, then we just see that this amendment of mine is also needed to be adopted as such. Mr. Vitosevic, I'm sorry, I don't know why you think it's funny or you're in a mood, you must not have gotten 13.5 million credits again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28471	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Sasa Vitoshević, MP of the people. What? I didn't say anything else, I just said you had a word. By amendment, right? Yeah, yeah, that's how I announced you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28472	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to point out, again in the context of Mr. Krstin's presentation, firstly, I would really call on Mr. Krstin to get a little better information on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia over the past three years, and I will explain that, so I will prove now that you have not been well informed. So, first you call on the representatives of the Ministry, who are sitting right in front of us and who can confirm it behind this speaker, that the Ministry is not in any way stimulating (I'm moving right back to your exposure) to rent land that the nursing households cannot process. So, you're talking, and you're not well informed, there's an exact regulation that stimulates precisely that the land from households that can't process it is being leased; that's how it promotes the accumulation of possessions, and in some ways brings into line this social component related to nursing households. Also, I have to remind you, Tito died. So, protection prices have long been abolished and there are no protection prices anywhere in the world, except probably in Cuba or in some countries that tend to be communist. So that protection price instrument went into oblivion in 2000, when you went into oblivion as a party that was in power. Why did it go into oblivion? Not because we love it so much, but because it's real and because you just can't print money and promise the people that wheat will be 15 dinars, and then pay them 15 dinars in three months when those 15 dinars are worth three dinars. From 1995 to 2000, there was no form of funding or stimulation, no serious stimulation without talking about lending. So, when the primary emissions were abolished, and to be clear, it means printing money and then giving money into agriculture and not just agriculture, but in other activities; simply, it did not give effect, and that effect of the population if it forgot we can remind it today, so how it lived in those years when hyperinflation was in Serbia. Second, you're saying that there is no policy that is being conducted, related to nursing households and general households that are unable to deal with agricultural production. Again, I'm saying you're not informed enough. So, there's a program that started in 2006, where people said whether they were part of non-commercial or commercial agricultural land. Non-commercial agricultural holdings, so those who are not able to go to the market but products for their own use, the Ministry of Agriculture provides direct financial assistance. Also, that the price protection system is not good, in recent years it has been proven in itself, because as competition has increased in the processing industry, as the monopoly has broken mainly through the privatisation process, so there has been a stabilisation of the prices of agricultural products, above all I'm talking about soya, sugar tail. This year, in fact, in 2005, even beer barley was negotiated, so processors came out at foreign exchange prices. So whoever wanted it could've left, signed the contract and contracted the barley. Don't disturb the public, especially the statements that the people will be hungry in 2007, that there won't be enough wheat. Please be informed of the needs of the Republic of Serbia, which are the transitional supplies in Serbia and how minimal production will be according to what has been sown.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28473	Thank you for the information that Tito died, but I guess we all know that, but she didn't die to help the village to keep the village from dying. It is the obligation of this Parliament. So, not to discuss who died, but to discuss the law. Everyone has the right to be informed when they arrive. Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28474	Mr. Vitosevic, there are great differences between you and me, between the SRS and G17 plus, hugely, because we are the strongest political party on Serbia's political scene, because you will not cross the censorship. We have reason to look forward to it, because in your case, I apologize, 13.5 million loans, buying cows for 1,000 euros, selling for 1,500, and that's where you get the difference. When I was talking about a nursing home, I was thinking about a household that could still work, but that the state was stimulating him, not that he didn't know today because he's selling tomorrow, because he has to plan what he's going to do the day after tomorrow. Do you know that the tractor has four points? If you don't know, say it. You want me to tell you how much money goes around when the sugar-tail wheels spread? So, Mr. Vitosevic, as far as agriculture is concerned, I know more. I can only tell you one fact, my village exists for 800 years, and it was celebrated in 2002. It is the site of Futog, next to Novi Sad, which produces from a single plot of two species, which are potatoes and cabbage. There's a difference between me and you, between the SRS and the G17, that you have one honorable and honest party and that you have a party that has grabbed everything it can and only gets those who are your members and no one else, Mr. "he". So, Mr. Vitosevic, don't take care of the SRS, don't come back in the time of Tito; if we're not coming back, don't come back either, because our party president has been doing time for him, you know it well, and now you're doing time again, but in The Hague, and it's from the European Community. Therefore, the SRS comes to power, agriculture will then flourish and will have a farmer's safety in production, will have security in the SRS government, it will certainly have what you say will draw, towards Europe, by production, if nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28475	National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28476	So I report to the Rules of Procedure because the dignity of the Assembly has been violated and because MPs are obliged to address one another with dignity, respecting their dignity. This certainly was not the case in the previous exhibition, since the dignity of the Assembly was harshly violated, and an attempt was made to harm the dignity of the MPs who spoke before the previous MP. So I don't think the subject is and can't be which party is better. I don't think it's decided in the Serbian Parliament, it's decided elsewhere. Whether someone will cross the census or not really shouldn't be your concern, and that there's a big difference between G17 plus and the SRS, thank God it's true. Of course there's a very big difference. We are proud to insist on that difference. I think we'll agree that elections are not won in public opinion studies, but in elections, and everywhere where the G17 plus party has recently participated in local elections has been far beyond censorship. Therefore, our tendency is not to be like the SRS. She's way behind it. So we have no intention of winning as many votes as you can win, but we will be quite satisfied with those voices that we will win. Why? Because we want to tell the citizens of Serbia what kind of country they live in, because we want to tell them that we want to change that country. So it is clear that Serbian citizens could see for themselves what a radical party is offering, and they can also see for themselves what G17 plus offers them. Let Serbian citizens assess who will cross the census and who will not cross the censorship. I think it's really below each level that you normally have, which is particularly expressed today, to mention G17 plus in every possible context. Experts G17 plus are doing their job responsibly in all the places where they do it and Serbian citizens can fully believe it. These stories of yours about credit being granted in one way or another, it's quite clear to me the way you're thinking. So, the way the apartments in Zemun were assigned, it's, like, what you think credits are being granted. However, as you are told, loans are not granted by business banks and business banks decide on who gets the loan, who does not get the loan. If they weren't members of the G17 plus I can confirm it to you personally, because I can tell you that in Leskovec, I've already talked about it, the party G17 plus has 2,500 members, and the approved agricultural loans are, unfortunately, very little. There's a reason, sure, but the reasons aren't because the G17 plus party doesn't have enough members. (President: Time, Mrs. Plassic. I'll be right there. So I'm asking you to forget more about it, to get back to work and try the argument, I'm not an expert in the field of agriculture, and that's why I'm not answering the amendments, to try you, which is, to argue about this. And what kind of ratings, members and how the parties differ is not really the subject of this, we'll talk about it when the election campaign starts. Be assured, the G17 Plus party will always very clearly underline the difference between our policy, our programme and your policy and your programme. Your programme has remained in the past of this country and it will never be able to recreate life in Serbia. Be absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28477	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28478	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous MP who reported to the Rules of Procedure only said the first sentence of harming the dignity of the National Assembly and of the MPs, and he continued to insult himself. I'll just say briefly: when no one is afraid of anything, gentlemen, call the elections, and we'll see what Serbia's political scene will be like. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28479	Anyone else want a word? By amendment, MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28480	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let's try to get the debate back on the agenda and talk a little bit about the amendment. A fellow MP, Milorad Krstin, has submitted an excellent amendment and says a new point is added in Article 8 after point 5. Just to remind you that Article 8 refers to the agricultural base of the local self-government unit and prescribes what it contains. This is a great amendment, except we haven't hit the law. When the water law is on the agenda, defending against floods, drain canals, irrigation, however, fall under the water law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28481	Thank you. Here you are, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28482	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, Milorad Krstin has made a good amendment. However, the matter is not addressed to the right address. A million and 700,000 hectares in Vojvodina have been taxed and the last two years the whole tax has been lifted, and before last year, 400 percent of the water contribution has been increased, and the Vojvodina Water Administration needs to address the issue of canals, coastal arrangements, channel cleaning and all that, it cannot be done by the Ministry of Agriculture. When everyone has abused the pay phone and I'm going to abuse it for a few minutes, you'll forgive me. It's said here. A little wheat is sown, it's going to be hungry. It's not going to be hungry, and it's just that it's a good thing it's sown a little bit, it's going to make the bakery and the mill industry pay for it. It is good that the Ministry of Agriculture allocates funds for storage, and I will freely tell all farmers – don’t sell a kilo of wheat, all store wheat; I know you need money, since I’m a farmer, but think about what would happen if the wheat had beaten the city. In that case, you will make millers and bakers pay the wheat immediately for 12 dinars, and by the end of the year it must be 15. It's nothing to make the citizens of Serbia afraid of. From October 2003 to July 2004, wheat on the Serbian market was between 14 and 15 dinars, bread was, as it is now, 25. No one closed the bakery, no one closed the mill, even new mills were built and new bakeries opened. Once farmers have to make arrangements when they meet, when they sell, to force everyone else who lives in a certain way on their coat of arms and should at least refer to the Ministry. Since this is a serious topic, the law on agricultural land, as a member of the DSS, please return to the topic, and there will be moments when issues are for the government, there will be moments when we can make complaints between ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28483	I would like to thank MP Miki Vlaovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Mašić, an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ivan Radic has tabled an amendment to Article 14. This Member shall refer to the implementation of the agricultural base; the agricultural base programme shall be adopted by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government after a preliminary opinion has been obtained. It is proposed in the amendment that this must be the expert commission, not just the commission as stated in the draft law. The amendment further proposes that this bill should not favour agricultural producers, i.e. agricultural holdings, but this is specifically about natural persons, farmers, who registered their agricultural holdings. For almost two years, we have been pointing to one regulation that the government has adopted on a proposal from the Ministry, you abuse it, and you place it in the constitutionally unequal position of the citizens of Serbia, because you favour only a group of those agricultural producers who registered their agricultural holdings. As a representative of the SRS and a man who understands agricultural production, I support the definition that agricultural producers are registered, because, more or less, it is everywhere in the world, especially in Europe, introduced as an obligation or at least registered by those agricultural holdings. This ministry began to promote the idea, in essence of the regulation, not the idea it had brought in 2004 and since the opening of the international agricultural fair in 2004, there has been a campaign, in a way, and a convincing agricultural producers to register. However, although it has already been two years, according to ministry statements, although the official statements differ from one assistant to another, but to take the largest figure that only 60 per cent of agricultural holdings in the Republic of Serbia have been registered so far, means 40 per cent of agricultural landowners, natural persons, farmers are not registered. Therefore, they are placed in an unequal position in relation to those persons who registered their agricultural holdings. First of all, you from the Ministry of Agriculture need to wonder why agricultural producers do not trust what you propose and do not register their holdings, not to punish them in any way. And you punish them first of all by not registering their holdings with the right to short-term loans, incentivising short-term loans, not having the right and the possibility to apply for long-term loans. The bill even prohibits them from participating in certain commissions that the president of the municipality will form, but also here must be exclusively persons who have registered their agricultural holdings, although in a good number of municipalities there are prominent agricultural producers who, unfortunately, did not register their holdings. You have no right, because it's something that's unconstitutional, that you're dividing them by law, you're literally favouring only one group of agricultural producers. The purpose of this amendment is that by eradicating this section relating to registered agricultural holdings, it is essentially possible for the President to have a municipality in his local territory for a commission that will evaluate the agricultural base programme essentially made by a self-convinced decision, and that agricultural holdings should not be exclusively registered. If you want all agricultural holdings to register, we have initiated ourselves in front of the Committee in time, make little effort through the media, which in some ways you have, through publications that you publish as the Ministry, send to every household and once more or several times explain what each individual agricultural landhold gets if it registers. Make an effort to put all citizens in the same position, not to favour a group of agricultural producers through the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28485	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14 of this proposal, paragraph 5, with a proposal to delete this point 5. I'll just read to the citizens what it's all about. In point 5, it is said – the total area of agricultural land in the state property planned for sale. The SRS' position on the sale of state agricultural land is well known to Serbian citizens. The SRS is absolutely against the sale or alienation of state agricultural land. For this reason, this amendment has been submitted. What has been happening over the past few years has only confirmed the fear of the SRS that exactly agricultural land will appear as the ultimate goal of the profiteers, better said tycoon, who, through their connections in executive power, come into possession of huge areas. A number of affairs have just been linked to malfeasance with the purchase of state agricultural land. As actors, individual government members, ministry members, both former and current governments reported. Special interest so-called The bankruptcy mafia has just shown agricultural goods across Serbia that have been deliberately introduced into bankruptcy so that later their assets are sold into bankruptcy. They were not interested in the deforestation of buildings, farms, outdated machinery, and found stock funds; they were only interested in state agricultural land that were later resold at multiple prices and made huge sums of money. The Ministry of Agriculture does not see it and does not want to see it, i.e. they are most interested in how to grant agricultural loans to individual G17 Plus members. That's a lot of talk. The MPs of the SRS were just presenting evidence of what I'm saying right now. Let only someone look at all agricultural goods and combine whose property was sold out after bankruptcy, they will see that they are mostly referred to as customers or intermediaries always the same people. The worst thing is, it's still happening, because this government doesn't want to stop it. This is how in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, the creation, so to speak, of a feud, or a vast space in private ownership. Where it'll all take us for some next period remains to be seen. I wish that land had been paid at market value, okay, but that's not the case. This land was kidnapped in some way by the state, with the help of interested groups in the executive and judicial authorities. And if someone didn't think that agricultural land was sold out only after the bankruptcy process, it was done, and it was still done in the privatisation process, the privatisation agency and the Ministry of Economy were involved. We have a case at the Earth PKB and a number of other examples. The procedure is the same: the existing assets are provided, the auction is usually conducted with already known participants. The new owner of the job is starting to sell out what he bought in this way and part by part of the former agricultural goods, and that's even used as paying off a part of the war for what was bought. It's all sold out, only remains land that is later sold to well-known customers. We have a case when a foreign company becomes the owner through the privatisation process, so next to the factory itself, that is, the production plant, and the agricultural land. It kind of comes as coming and usually with that land that foreign company doesn't know what to do. In some ways, a legal problem arises here, since a legal person from another country has become the owner of agricultural land. I'll give you an example: a Popovatska cementar, which was sold four years ago to Switzerland's Holcim, owned by about 700 ha of arable first-class country. That belongs to a foreign company now. It can do what it wants and their goodwill is whether it will be used, since the said company does not process it, nor is it interested in its use. There are certainly more of these examples in Serbia. The Serbian government should deal with this rather than further impoverishing the state land fund. I believe the MPs in voting day will accept this amendment to the SRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28487	Thank you. The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic, SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28488	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Madam Prime Minister, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the attention of article 14, which regulates the implementation of the agricultural base, and is in some way related to the member we are about to discuss, which is Article 71 - the alienation of agricultural land in the state property. It is known about the SPS position related to this amendment. Here in Article 14, at the end, where the annual programme adopted by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government is defined, it also includes data relating to agricultural land owned by the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as state property), and this data, and I am not reading four points that stand, but the fifth – the total area of agricultural land in the state property planned for sale. Since we are with this member, if there is a will to accept the amendment to Article 71, simply point 5) should not stand here in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28489	The word has been made by MP Zoran Mašić, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28490	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would support what Mr. Brance Stojanovic said, precisely on the basis of what has been made public here before the MPs of the National Assembly and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which was a condition for the SPS to support Mrs. Dulic-Markovic as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, where it is publicly said that an amendment which explicitly requires that the possibility of selling state land be deleted from this bill. It is right here in point 5) and in the whole of this position that jurisdiction is being discussed within the framework of the implementation of the annual programme of agricultural base, which is the programme that brings the competent agency of local self-government, and it is in their jurisdiction to define everything that stands, therefore, the lease of agricultural land, the land users of the state property, and among other things in point 5) it is clear that it will be defined and how much this agricultural land will be sold in the state property, i.e. how much it is planned for sale. If the government has defined itself to support an amendment that implies a ban on selling state land, then absolutely this in point 5) should be deleted, to remain as we from the SRS have proposed. Therefore, in this case there may be only vanity here for the present proposing not to accept the amendment, and on the other hand, there may be a problem for those who have been promised to abolish the provisions of this proposal for a law relating to the sale of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28491	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28492	I would like to say that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government has clearly defined that agricultural land is not being sold. Therefore, Articles 71 and 72 clearly state that land can be alienated only after the restitution process has been completed. Since the proposal by the MPs was to avoid any possibility of selling in this way, the government agreed, and on behalf of the Government, I accept this amendment as well as to accept point 5) on the proposal for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28493	National MP Prvoslav Savic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28494	Since Mr Savic is not present, allow me to briefly explain that the essence of this amendment is a supplement in Article 14(6) where it is specifically about the lease, i.e. the lease of state land. The point of the amendment is that, apart from the land that is a state property, on large land areas there are certain objects that are also in state property, and that within the course of the annual programme, therefore, it consists of the competent authority of the local self-government unit, that simply behind the land are written that the objects are also the subject of issue, because by the logic of things, if someone takes state land in lease and on that land there are facilities that are in state property, that they are also subject to lease. Unfortunately, on the Committee on Agriculture, the legislator, the government did not accept it, with the reason that this law primarily applies to agricultural land. We do not dispute that, because we have come from a logical assumption that on that land there are certain buildings built and someone who takes the land into lease, and does not pay the rent of the facility, he will certainly use the facility and essentially the state will lose. So we don't see the logic that this amendment is not accepted, especially with the explanation given, that this is a bill that exclusively refers to land itself, not objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28495	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mika Vlaovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment refers to a more precise definition of who can conduct an examination of the presence of harmful substances in the land and sewers for the disposal and irrigation of agricultural land. In view of the specificity of chemical substances treated as hazardous and harmful substances, which can be found on agricultural land and in water or sewage canals, I felt that this law needed to be defined more closely by who could examine the presence of these harmful substances. I propose that it be an undertaking or other legal persons registered to carry out appropriate activities, have appropriate laboratory equipment, devices and appropriate professional and scientific personnel and have the authority of the Ministry. I believe that by defining this position, Article 17 will warn who can conduct this type of study, given that it is a matter of identifying specific chemicals such as pesticides, herbicides or some toxic metals such as lead, mercury, arsenic, etc. Therefore, it is necessary that the Ministry absolutely has knowledge, and the expert public in the area of agricultural production, already now which are the institutions that can conduct this type of examination. There are only a few institutions that have this type of equipment, which is specific and sophisticated. Certainly, these are institutions that have professional ones, and I have proposed scientific staff, which can give relevant interpretations of the results of these studies. However, the legislator did not accept this amendment and defined that these conditions would be regulated more closely by sublegislative acts, and Article 80 provided that specific sublegal acts would be adopted. Point 3 of this Article of the 80th states that the conditions to be met by a company, i.e. an undertaking or another legal entity in respect of technical and professional capacities for the examination of hazardous and harmful substances in agricultural land and water for irrigation will be prescribed by the Ministry within two years. So, for the next two years, that part of a significant and professional job either will not be done properly or will be done by those who are favorites of the Ministry of Agriculture and who are on their list of similar institutions. Because it is absolutely clear, first of all, to the professional agricultural public, that in the current period, the Ministry of Agriculture has had, I will not insult anyone, to use a heavy word, but at least one right to disrespect our top institutions that are currently engaged in the study of agricultural production, while at the same time equipped with quality equipment and personnel, such as the Institute of War and Vourage in Novi Sad. There is nothing better when it comes to the Institute of Corn in Zemun Polje, as well as agricultural colleges in Novi Sad and Zemun. These are exactly the most equipped and highly skilled institutions that can do these jobs. I felt that the law should regulate this, because this law will come into force much faster, and not wait for the next two years for conditions to be prescribed, not taking into account any general interest, so as to continue, as the applicant of this amendment, I insist on this proposal, and I do not think that it would significantly violate the concept of the law and that the law itself would regulate a significant area.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28497	The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28498	Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know, I don't have that information whether the Ministry has favorites or favored institutions in this area, but I would really like to stand up and think Mr. Mašić's explanation and the SPS parliamentary group will support... I don't think there's anything wrong with it, since it's specialized equipment; investigating harmful substances in agricultural land and water for irrigation is highly sophisticated and requires equipment that is extremely expensive, and I don't think there's a reason, if we're passing a law that's extremely important for this, that it doesn't stand this close to explaining how Mr. Mašić explained about equipment and personnel. What Mr. Mika Vlaovic said, that in some ways I too use this pay phone, related to agricultural loans. This is where we heard the MPs' opinions about it. I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, and I voted in favour of the request Mr. Masic said that the Committee's desire to know and see which farmers received long-term loans, for which purpose and for which agricultural production. I have an obligation to say, maybe this man is watching our meeting now, and the opposite example is, so he took a 20,000-euro loan, a man with circumstances from the village where I was born, and he doesn't know anyone in the ministry, he came to me by accident because we know each other personally and the problem wasn't at the Ministry's route, etc., the problem was in the bank. I don't want to mention the bank so I don't make any negatives, I don't use a commercial for that bank, I personally insisted that the bank go into the process in any way, and without any problems, the man has nothing to do with any party, I have an obligation to say, maybe look, he's got a loan, and he's been doing vegetable production very well for two years now with the loan he's got.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28499	Good luck to him, and to others like that. Is there anyone else under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 25, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. The government has accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28500	Very short. I appeal to the MPs, especially the MPs who are presidents of the municipalities, I think they will cheer for this amendment because they see the benefit of municipalities, the benefit of municipal budgets in relation to the republican budget. In fact, Article 25 defines a fee for changing the purpose of farmland and for using non-agricultural land. I wanted this amendment to help municipal budgets in some way, because I think, although in some ways I accept the Ministry's view that turning agricultural land into unfarmable in some places is extremely profitable, it is important for this whole story about agricultural land to give local self-government a new dimension and a new obligation. Simply, my amendment goes towards most of the cake belonging to local self-government with local budgets, so before the government accepted the AP amendment that the distribution goes 30, 30, 40. So, since there's a cluster of agricultural land in Vojvodina, I think it's possible to accept an amendment like this. It is explained that the Government, or Ministry, did not want to violate relations with other laws, particularly the Law on the Protection of the Environment. We're still a socialist party then, and that's when the attitude was... I come from a city which, unfortunately, has been extremely polluted in recent years, it's about Smederev and US Steel, which is a major contaminant; this relationship for so-called. The environmental dinar, i.e. the funds that are paid into the budget in this relationship, as 60:40% is given in the explanation, is extremely disputable because the consequences of pollution are primarily suffering the population. I think if local self-government doesn't get the right funding for this, it can't properly monitor contaminants and anything that does environmental pollution. So I wouldn't agree with this argument, so the relationship with other laws is the same, we're going to argue that these relations are different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28501	I thank Mr. Stojanovic. The People's Messenger Mita Avramov has the word, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić. Here you go, Mr. Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28502	I think this amendment is extremely good. It should support this proposal that 60% remain local self-government and 40% go to the state. We all know that large migrations are in all municipalities, including in these municipalities where agriculture is exclusively, especially in Vojvodina. In the villages are mostly old households, in municipalities too. I can only point out that the municipality from which I come is the municipality of Shid, with 30,000 voters and 40,000 residents. I think that's all it says in itself, that it's purely a nursing home, so if we're not going to leave anything in these municipalities to develop these municipalities, I don't know what we're going to do anymore. So it continues to strive, under this law, for migration to be made to larger cities such as Novi Sad, Belgrade, etc., and we will abandon villages and municipalities and let them simply go down the water. We have a very large company, or more large enterprises in the territory of our municipalities, where some buyers, some owners who are unknown to everyone, don't even know who the owners who bought these huge areas of the country, even thousands of hectares. In the territory of our municipality, for example, total hops are no longer operational, and I can tell you that we had the best hop produced in Europe, sold for dry gold. We have huge areas under the vineyards, and it's abandoned, it's being extracted, it's being destroyed; we have quality wines, we have quality basements to store these wines, but simply those people who worked on those agricultural goods and took care of it all don't work anymore. The new owner didn't hire them, they found themselves on the street, and now they're simply forced to migrate somewhere or to wind up in other ways to get bread. I think this ministry has to pay particular attention to agriculture and it really needs to come out to meet agriculture, and the shift would be if we adopted this amendment, so let them show that they really care about the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28503	I thank Mr. Avramov. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28504	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, National MP Branca Stojanovic, on behalf of the SPS, submitted an amendment to Article 25 of the Law on Agricultural Land, which tries to regulate relations and local self-government in a different way than is provided for by the law when changing the purpose of agricultural land. I don't have anything to add, we can measure it one way or another. We advocate decentralisation in Serbia; when we advocate decentralisation then it is important to find the original revenues for the functioning of local self-government. I wanted to take advantage of the Vice-President's presence and repeat a request I had on the Committee on Agriculture. So for several years, it has been said that construction of Belgrade highways -- the southern Adriatic, or, to be precise, would end up somewhere at Požega if I was well informed. Since this is a 70-metre belt, and since a potential concessionary always wants the road to have lower burdensome costs, which means that it passes through the plain, through agricultural land, it means that there are not too many bridges, tunnels, etc., then, to formulate my demand here, absolutely means that in some small towns the highway, if its realisation occurs, will practically leave a number of catastrian municipalities in Serbia without agricultural land or be even more precise without the most fertile agricultural land. I'll give some examples, on that track I practically know every village, but I'm going to stay for two, one is Takovo, and one is Savinac, in the Catastrian municipality of Sarani and both are located on the territory of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac. So both villages are amphitheatre-shaped, located right next to the river Dicina; the route of the highway goes exactly to follow the river Dicina and, to make the evil bigger, the connection potential for the ramp for Gornji Milanovac will be in Takova. There is another problem, located near the historical complex Takovo, and it practically passes right by Dicin and separates it into two incompatible continents, that territory, and, of course, only agricultural land that is for gardens, for some lighter agricultural production, although it is not the most important there, because otherwise people do other things. Why am I saying all this? Of course, I understand the state needs, and I always say that – if someone had ever asked the peasants in Kladovo whether to sink their agricultural land, so to make Gerdap, they might never have declared themselves. I understand what the general interest is, and I understand that it has to be justly compensated, it's all clear, but I wish the Ministry of Agriculture had a greater impact on this route, because the road doesn't always have to go through agricultural land. When the road is made in Vojvodina, it is clear that wherever it goes across agricultural land the best possible class, but when the road goes to the forest, it can move 100 metres to the left or right and thus not destroy agricultural land and one of the most beautiful parts in that part of Serbia. So it seems to me that for someone who's building a 200 or 300km road, whether it's a few million euros more or less doesn't mean much if he gets a concession at 20 or 30 years, and for those people who live there right now, it means a free waste of agricultural land, and not just that. Here, I'm also using the opportunity for people who contact me for both the subject and everything else, so that someone doesn't think that I'm trying not to build that highway if it comes to its realization, but because of people who expect to be protected in this sense, I need to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28505	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mika Vlaovic. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Mika Vlaović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28506	There is only one small difference compared to the amendment to Article 28, which was accepted by the Government by the Committee on Agriculture, because I submitted in the amendment that there was no ban on pasture on agricultural land, except on my own property and on the contract, so since no solution could be found about that contract, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28507	The 48th amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Mika Vlaovic. The government has accepted the amendment, with corrections. The Committee on Agriculture has accepted the amendment, with corrections. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Mika Vlaović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28508	In Article 48, it was written – in voluntary membership it was free to pay an administrative fee, and I added to the amendment – and the sales tax of absolute rights. However, this is set out in the Law on Tax on the Transposal of Absolute Rights, so there is no need in two laws. I'm withdrawing this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28509	Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Mika Vlaovic. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Masic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 60a be added after article 60a. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28510	Although the Committee on Agriculture has reformed this amendment, and I also support this formulation of the Committee on Agriculture, I would still like to explain to the public this amendment initiated by the SRS parliamentary group. The essence of our proposal is to add a new member of the 60th, and this chapter refers to the use of agricultural land in the state property, where we propose that certain agricultural land in the state property can be given to use without paying compensation, and that, above all, education institutions, schools, professional agricultural services and social institutions, as well as higher education institutions, universities, scientific institutes whose founder is the state and institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. I suggested that your possessions be 200 ha or 2,000 ha. In addition to the joint consultations of the Committee on Agriculture, we agreed that these areas should be reduced to 100 ha or 1,000 ha. The promoter accepted, the Committee also accepted, so I essentially accept the amendment and I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28511	On Article 60 of the amendments, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28512	I have submitted an amendment to Article 61(1) to replace the word "one" with the word "five". The land lease period should not be shorter than five years, as this is the period during which the leases can be determined, i.e. the effects that the tenant can achieve by using the leased land. Of course, in the event of a non-respect of the contract, he can break up sooner. The draft law lays down a minimum period of one year, which is certainly not enough to assess the profitability of the use of the leased parcel. I've submitted this amendment for reasons that I don't think it fits any of the laws, that what's written in the law and what's being conducted in practice is a little bit different, so to put these two things in one level, I think it's normal for the lease period to be five years, because it would be a guarantee that the tenant is paid for his work. A one-year lease can be risky and the tenant can do business with loss. I ask the question – what if you borrow land for one year and in that year there is drought and no yield, or in that year there is a flood, and there is no income on that land, or does the city destroy crops in that field? If the law were – at least three or five years, then the tenant could extract damage in the following year, if perhaps they would be better suited to agriculture. I don't want to explain the amendment any further. I don't think a year happens in practice, for a simple reason, if you offer someone a year in a lease, someone can hardly accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28513	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic and the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague from the SRS parliamentary group Mr Lazar Cavic has submitted an amendment to Article 61. Namely, it's a lease. It reads as follows: "Arable land in state property and land under Article 3 of this Act can be leased if the annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land provided for in Article 14 of this Act is intended for the lease of a natural or legal person for a period which cannot be shorter than one year or longer than 20 years". A colleague, Hranislav Peric, asked that instead of one year it be five years and on several occasions he mentioned three or five years. Why do we say "five years"? We know he's going back to land, there's a restitution. In article 92 he says – give it to three years. There's a collapsion, if we're going to have it, I don't see why you wouldn't put it in article 61 to stand up – it can't be shorter than three years. It's logical for a minimum to be three years, because if someone is going to do one thing, and that's always a bigger area, they want the first year, if then it's rooted, cleans up that land and it's got as much as it's going to be, but that's why he's got a second year, so he's got a third year, when he's probably going to have a contribution. I would ask you to consider this amendment to Lazar Cavic, because you will have one opposite, I said, in Article 92... Article 61, along with Franislav Periæ, I think you could do instead of one year, to be – it can't be shorter than three years and I think I'm certainly right here. Who's the one who's going to take the state land that's already standing. Then he has to bring in a culture, bring him in to be a land that's going to make a bigger contribution next year and normally, not to say third year, an even bigger contribution. If someone's going to invest in land that he's going to take for just a year to clean it up, and maybe next year he'll take someone else, I don't think you're right about that. This amendment should indeed be accepted, that the words "one year old" are replaced by the words "three years old", and I believe that counterpart Hranislav Peric will agree that instead of five years it will be three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28515	I thank you, Mr. Krstin, only there's a reverse principle: you have those cultures that can drain so much land for a year that next year it won't even take, but it's asking to take another one, like the vine, it's taken for a year, it's never planted for the next year, but only a year, because it's so exhausted agricultural land. Just in addition to yours, I'm saying that there's another person's desire to take land for a year for one agricultural culture that can't be sown on that next year. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28516	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this member is in connection with Article 92, and Article 92 says, among other things, that agricultural land in state property which is in agreement with the Law on registration and registration of confiscated property can be leased for up to three years. So one year goes up to three years. Therefore, that land that someone is seeking was taken from him can be given for a year as soon as the law is passed, that land belongs to the previous owner. I don't think there are any conceptual and serious differences. It's not fair for the state to rent someone's land for three, five or ten years, and the owner who gets paid, or his land returned to him, is waiting for a three-year term to elapse. I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28517	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Zivorad Smiljanic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 63a be added after article 63a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Žika Smiljanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28518	Of course, when it comes to agricultural land law, we Socialists have given the amendment that is most important to us, which is that state land cannot be sold, it is accepted by the minister and we are satisfied. The point was that a year ago we agreed to pass such a law on agricultural land as the Slovenians and Croats brought and thus to protect the state land, and they had greater wisdom, and in 1992 they turned all the social land into state and made it impossible for new rich people to get their hands on the country's huge possessions for very small money. We know in Vojvodina that the largest owner was Dungerian. He only had 1,500 acres, these rich men of ours have up to 30,000 acres of land. What I wanted with this amendment, I'm going to read it one more time, is that after Article 63. The bill adds a new Article 63a, which reads as follows: "Extremely from Article 63 of this Act, agricultural land in state property is leased for up to 20 years", "without public advertising, the current land user when: 1) the current land user is leased the total area of agricultural land in the state-owned land; 2) this agricultural land constitutes a basis of reprolancess (warning, livestock and processing of agricultural products); 3) the current land user is the owner of a system for irrigation and disposal, multi-annual plantings, ponds and other production facilities of higher value on agricultural land to be leased. The price of the agricultural land lease referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by the competent ministry on a proposal from the local self-government. "In fact, what is my wish? To try to keep the remaining combinations that survived, using experience, above all, Slovenians, Croats and Hungarians. At the beginning of the transition, the Hungarians gave their land for free sale; when they saw that almost the entire western Hungary had been bought by the owners of Austria and realized that they would again be bureaumen with the Krauts, as we say in Vojvodina, they simply passed a law banning further sale of agricultural land to foreigners, which is now laid down in our law. Then they saw that their agricultural production was destroyed when they destroyed their combineds. That's why the Hungarian state did it to bring 27 combinations back to life, to help them materially, to put them on their feet; they went into privatisation, but they remained as one large continent and it was a provision for further production in Hungary. The Slovenians practically did the same thing. They didn't even sell the social land, but the difference between the social and state countries is that it's the state-owned country, and the social country is the one that has been combined for years, that is, workers have bought for years, giving up their income and thus increased their property. It's this very working country, which is also called the social land, that the state sold. The Slovenians, aware of the injustice they have done, have passed such a law that up to 30 years they have given these combineds to use this agricultural social land without any compensation, and for this which the state has sought compensation. The Croats did the same thing. My goal is to keep the remaining combinations, because only these two combinations, PIK "Becay" and the PKK, can sow so much seed production to cover a million acres of land. Our goal is to give this amendment, by direct contract, we know that they will go for sale by the end of next year, but the bottom line is that they are being preserved, to be strengthened, because I believe, since PIC "Becay" is the owner of the previous law 52 percent, it may happen that they stay because they have completed the privatisation in part, to preserve these combinations, because we only use the positive experience of those people around us who did it and have seen that they have made a mistake. So I insist that we accept this and not make the same mistake that the Hungarians initially made when they sold out everything, when they destroyed the combinations, and then saw that there was no agricultural production, and that was their biggest national product. And then these combineds were preserved by 27 combinations, where there's a million acres of land, it's preserved, and thanks to those combined ones, they're processing it. Therefore, I ask that this be accepted. We're not gonna lose anything, we're gonna save some of the surviving combinations, and we're gonna do what our neighbors are; we're best to learn from their mistakes, not ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28519	I thank Mr. Smiljanic. The word is Zoran Angelkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Smiljanic has explained this amendment well. Essentially, of course, it was the most important amendment that tells us that state property cannot be sold, and therefore I want to thank you, regardless of the political differences that have been made in recent months, and not to say days, we show up with Mrs. Dulic, for accepting this amendment. I don't think she did it to the SPS, but she did it to preserve more significant cooperatives and combinations in the country so that it wouldn't come to the sale of everything and that she was trying to sell out the state or some other government to buy and return. I'm talking about Articles 71, 72, and now I'm going back to this one. On the occasion of the amendment, I just want to say a few sentences. He is tied to Article 63, where in the last position it is said that the lowest price can be 70% of the value. It's not a slow one. I think he should be wider in that sense that he's supposed to have a graduation. The state, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, must know what it wants to produce and what it wants from citizens who have agricultural land to produce, what it wants to stimulate. Mr. Vitosevic said there were no more guaranteed prices. No, but there's another package, which they would say, the same thing. It has incentives for proper agricultural production, which the state is interested in. For example, if the state is interested in the production of sunflowers, then the lease price will be H1 if it is not interested in the production of wheat, then the rent price will be H10 of some real price. In this way the state stimulates what it wants to have more and to produce more in the country. They are not grants guaranteed prices, but they are essentially by paying less rent than some real land rental in that space. I think that's what you can say, to get out of this, that 70% of the lease price doesn't leave that space that different cultures will be priced differently by the state, so it will stimulate the production of those agricultural cultures that it's interested in. It will destimulate the production of those cultures at a given time and where it considers that there are too many market surpluses. For those reasons, he can't produce. It's not true that there are no guaranteed prices in the world, there is. If there were no price guaranteed, America would never buy that amount of wheat and sell 50% cheaper in the world. And in order to preserve that agricultural production, to preserve those farmers, it provides a guaranteed price and forms a stock reserve and has a stock reserve that is not a commercial enterprise, but through stock reserves actually ensures that it preserves those farmers and agricultural producers. The other thing is that we've ruined the stock reserves and we don't have the stock reserves, which is more of a commercial company to do this or that, not to balance the market and the labour market economy. Now that I'm out, without saying what Krasic called me, credits existed on a variety of basis in different periods: 70s "Green Plan", 90s for agricultural products, tractors, agricultural machinery, etc. Certainly, it must be in the future. I wanted something, and it may also be as a parliamentary question, which is, there are a lot of open questions or grudges of people who call us for the prevention of the plague – on that basis and by order of inspection, a recovery is carried out by the animals, and above all when it comes to pigs, they destroy, and that is logical, in order to prevent further spread of the plague. There are big remarks that it's not worth it. I think it's important that we know if it's worth it, how it's paid and what the problems are about it; if you destroy someone's cattle fund that he's been fostering for years, 20, 30, and he's left without any compensation, then he can't recover anymore. Of course, if you would accept this amendment, regardless of the fact that the land in the state property cannot be alienated, I think only this law would be corrected and nothing in that sense would be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28522	I would absolutely like to give my support to this amendment, because I think it will essentially help at this time the transition of our agriculture to those agricultural combinations that went through this gogogue that our country has been going through since the collapse, from the 1990s to today. These are combinations that produced agricultural products' market surpluses. Then, these are combinations that have rounded agricultural production, apart from the land that is unfortunately theirs, mostly in their property, a small part in social property, but at the same time large livestock producers, have a rounded processing, developed food industry. Openly speaking, we think of the PKK as the main supplier of agricultural products in Belgrade and PIK Becej, which is in the Vojvodina area and is today the most organised and best agricultural producer. Of course, accepting this amendment would refer to some other combinations that still exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a successful combination. By accepting this amendment, essentially, it would be prevented that state agricultural land, and that in these two combinations is more than 30,000 hectares, goes public and rents... That is, not a public sale literally, but a public lease, because we have already heard that the government has accepted that there should be no sale of state land, the state land will exclusively be leased. So, according to the proposal of this law, state land will be leased by local self-government advertising the lease of the land, and the price of the lease can be at least 70% of the market price on the territory of the local self-government. If, under these conditions, these two combinations were to rent a state country, the PKK had 20,000 hectares, and PIK Bechej was 11,000 hectares, I'm afraid this would lead to a major problem and combined, especially workers and people working in these combinations and supporting their families. That's over 6,000 workers somewhere. By leased under these market conditions, where these combinations could not take the entire area of land proposed here by this amendment to be leased, but to hire someone else would be at risk of maintaining the stock fund that they have combined and factually until the collapse of livestock production, i.e. is the first towable animals, and then the infertile animals, and to a significant extent the total value of these agricultural combinations collapses. This amendment does not dispute the fundamental idea of the legislator to lease state land. Here it is proposed that these combinations, which are currently land users, be leased with the total land area, with the cost of renting agricultural land determined by the competent ministry on a proposal from local self-government. So, in the most part, the promoters of this amendment also respected the basic standards of this law that this state land is being leased, that these combinations should in any case pay the rent, only it is not proposed to be the commercial price of that lease, because, objectively, it would most likely put these combinations into great dubiosis. We therefore believe that, compared to the current state of development of our agricultural production, on the other hand, certain businessmen who were engaged in other production came into money and had already taken significant land properties in the lease, primarily state-owned countries, bought some agricultural combinations, that they could also appear as potential state land leases in these two combinations and therefore significantly collapse the total production of these agricultural combinations, significantly affect the social security of workers working in these combinations, and certainly significantly reduce the value of these agricultural combinations which, with the resources they now have, could certainly achieve a significantly higher price. I think it should be the interest of the state, the government and the agriculture ministry to preserve such combinations, in some way to help through a legal standard like this, and to introduce complete market conditions in a later period. Thus, all the arguments given by then by the Minister, Mrs Dulic, that such a norm goes to these new agrobusinesses, do not stand, as the ministry would still have control over the lease of the land and local self-government, which by law has it as a right. In particular, it does not stand for this argument given in one sentence by the Government – that the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the pledge to establish a market for the lease of agricultural land. So, I regret to say that a number of DSS MPs at the public debate stage supported the demands of these combinations, and now they are not advertised, but representatives of the SPS and the SRS are essentially trying to convince the promoter of this law, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, that the general benefit for the state, for those combinations, is for the people who work in these combinations, to resolve their status and the issue of land management. Especially if the facts behind this speaker were respected, because there was a lot of things going on with the country in Hungary, in other countries in the environment, I really don't see why we're falling into something at any cost to make the market liberal and free and that someone who has money comes to capital and that something that has existed for years and existed as worth being destroyed and destroyed. Not to say what problem and what significance, or what problems will arise, and what importance these combinations had in the production of plant seed where it is necessary to ensure this spatial isolation. Because tomorrow when it's put on public lease, with the highest lease price, the question is whether whoever takes that land will have an interest in producing plant seed and whether we're going to become import-dependent, or whether we're going to depend on foreign companies as far as plant seed is concerned. Once again, I would like to ask the representatives of the SPS, as they will make a significant decision in the adoption of this law, as they insisted on provisions on land sales, to insist on the adoption of this amendment. If nothing else, they will be grateful to at least those 6,000 people, even if the families of those workers who work in these two combinations are included, that we have done one good deed together, and I don't think a fundamental change in the concept of the law will arise if this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28523	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28524	We cannot accept this amendment, I think we have long spoken to the MPs about it, such an exception or precedent would allow all privatised people to seek equal treatment. This law does not take away the country or the PKK or PIC Vienna, simply gives farmers from Vienna the same chance and local self-government will have to decide whether or not it is more important for them to have PIC Vienna or farmers. So we've already talked about it, and it's impossible to make a precedent, because it would go to the tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28525	The word has a National MP Rajko Baralić, you have a minute and a half, then Mika Vlaović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28526	We do not dispute the argument made by the Deputy Prime Minister, I just want to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia has devoted two meetings of the SPS Executive Board together with the Agriculture Council, and that is a matter of different vision. So that's why we're in different parties, here are the concepts. To those who have such requirements, I would like to say once again: it is impossible to vote for right-wing organisations or an organisation of a neoliberal concept and seek left-wing solutions in the law. We are prepared to accept the risk of the argument offered by Madam Vice-President of the Government and at this point we address those who have a similar view of resolving these issues, close to the position of our council. I know it's not possible at this level to pass different laws now, but I remind you, in Serbia these things are fixed in the ballot box, there's no other place. It is a matter of trust, given confidence in a number of political parties, they have a concept and they are obliged to translate their concept into legal projects if they have received confidence. What's most important to us right now is an amendment that has been accepted, and that's one symbiosis between what was possible, but politics is the skill of possible. So there's nothing to worry about, to say by the jargon, that can't be changed. And the workers in the combinations, in the sugars, in the cretined Jelen Do, in the cutting tool factory in Chačka, as well as workers in many other places, think about these things one minute before they put it into the ballot box. It's politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28527	Mika Vlaovic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28528	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, I would not like to discuss the ideological issue, I would like to say something domestic. It was left to local self-government to determine in PIC Vienna and the PKK Belgrade whether they will put 50 and 100 hectares on the tender and sell, buy whoever they want, or rent, re-sell for money, the whole board that will buy the combination. And to accept this amendment, it's settled in a year, two or three. Let's get those combinations back to you for 50 years. Rent per hectare that is 100 euros, that is 5,000 euros. In all of Serbia, taking an average, 5,000 euros does not cost a hectare on average. So, for each of those 50 years, a combined donated country, of which it didn't even cover normal expenses, many did business with loss. Well, there was also the preservation of social peace, extra workers and some of the obligations imposed on them by the state, which the private sector of agriculture could not. When we talk about the ballot box, and here we come into a situation to think, 1119 grand owners totaled 84,000 hectares; when restitution is done, vomiting is simpler, better people understand, there will be the same five, six thousand, and perhaps more, that will be taken away from their grandfathers, their sons, their grandchildren, their grandkids. When everyone gets a piece and there's a significant part of the voter. For example, we'll take the Becay Combinate; there's 14,000 acres of 2,800 employees; when a country is divided with workers, there's not five hectares per employee. A hectare in agriculture can't bring in 500 euros of clean money; they're condemned again, and they're left with a free country, they're making losses, because they have to turn into one. They produced seed goods, they have a gulf system, they have a closed circle of production, they have a slaughterhouse, they have soyar, they have to process, there's got to be income. But, as I said, there was still local self-government to determine. On the other hand, if this amendment were accepted, anyone who bought a social country, MK Komertz, Miskovic, Agroziv, Markovic, would have rights under the same system. Why would these so-called tycoons, not to say thieves, have more rights than farmers in that populated place where that country is? I wonder why. It's hard to rule between two of whom you're going to hurt, not to hurt anyone, but I don't think anyone's hurt much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28529	The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28530	Dear Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to an academic debate, which is good for this House, so let's try to face some views and opinions. Having heard this amendment at the first moment, I really thought that we should meet with the proposings of this amendment, but what do we do then, do some become more equal and some less equal, I mean those who deal with agriculture, and who is more or less equal? So why do reprolans come into existence? They are made that primary production, livestock production, food industry or seed production, seed processing, etc., so that whoever owns it would make a greater profit. One who has a chance to make more profit becomes more equal than one who does not. I don't think comparing the ballot box is a bad comparison, my esteemed colleague Rajko Baralic; 40% of eight million is three million and some voters. Every citizen in Serbia, I apologize to everyone, and to those 60 and 2000 and 5000 and 3 million, deserves to have the same and equal treatment if they are running to rent agricultural land. I've been a producer for many years, among other things, and seed production, etc., but from this aspect that are the largest seed houses in the world? Are those from communist countries, socialist countries or others, where the seat of KVS, Pionira etc? Is it where most of the land is owned or owned? Therefore, I advocate first of all that our farmers, whether they are working on a large or small property, have equal access, the possibility of taking up state land for hire. There's a 64th member who regulates those priorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28531	Replica, Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28532	My parents followed me, so it's said in my village, that I represent them, so that's what I'm going to do here. Of course, dear fellow government has said a few sentences. I'm just going to answer with control. So, I'm going to repeat what I said about the combination of Belgrade on the Committee on Agriculture. The combination of Belgrade was a dream, therefore, achieved by Mr. Veljovic, who exported $500m annually to Western Union countries at a time when it was unimaginable for the largest number of developed farms in the world, in the rhythms, you know where it came from, etc. So it wasn't an important order, it was an important vision of a man and the support that that vision got from the state. If I were to be able to, if someone asked me, and if I were to decide on it myself, I would do the same thing as "Sartid" -- fire the debts of the PKK and then give him a chance to be who he was before, but of course this would already be the domain of science fiction. That's not possible here. It was possible once. I recommend that anyone who does not believe read Dr Branko Kovacevic's book "Milojko Veljovic, a achieved vision of the PKK", there writes everything. Any one of us could learn something from there. I read the book, I don't know if it's one of you. So anything is possible, of course, if one problem is approached seriously, if we analyze the positive and negative effects of all of this. But, it doesn't matter, I mean, the afternoon debate gets one finer flow, one straight flow, and I want it to be that way and in the future, and we're going to have a daughter, and there's opportunities, and there's other laws. It implodes, in any case, that both rhetoric and respect of colleagues today is at that level that we want to see in parliament every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28533	Thank you. For the replica Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28534	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, as it is in that joke – have you read, of course, walking, worked in a serious combination for 30 years. Yeah, the ideal is, you just ask yourself who paid for it, how much did it cost? Unfortunately, my company went into losses too, not because it didn't have reprocessines, but because of something, I don't think we're elaborated on it now, which is why certain combinations went down, and they of course had primary emissions, they had various subsidies, etc. But the fact is, what happened really happened. How to get out, put it on market basis, so only one of the segments is the land law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28535	I thank you, Mr. Kronic. National MP Sasa Vitosevic, as amended. Here you go, Mr. Vitoshevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are all witnessing the fact that during the public debate on the proposal for a law on agricultural land the most attention is given to this segment, but I would try, unlike all my colleagues who spoke on this subject, through a different occasion to explain the policy implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture in the part of the land policy and, of course, part of that policy is precisely the proposal for this law. Some colleagues have, by proposing and explaining this amendment, tried to reintroduce a part of social policy, to install a part of social policy into this law. I once said that about this pay phone and I hope you agree with me, there are people here who are really into agricultural production, I am one of them, and I believe that agriculture is no longer a test of patriotism, and I believe that we all advocate that agriculture is a job like any other job that can be earned, lived and survived. I would absolutely not support the amendment that we are now discussing, but perhaps I would suggest it in the variant that we all agree, that the executive authority has a concept and says – yes, we want you to combine to remain in state property. It means the state owns those combinations. In that context, I repeat again, I would first propose such a same amendment and I would say yes, but of course then there must be a clear motive why the state would manage those combinations. I, of course, do not support such a policy, because it has proved not only in our country but also in other countries that have led a similar policy as our country that the simple state is not a good boss and many are combined, not only in a series of agriculture, but in other activities, they have experienced the fate they have experienced. So, for this reason and through this prism, I'm just trying to explain that I think, and my colleague, Mr Vlaovic, has best explained this, that you can't introduce different criteria by one law and bring some into a privileged position and some into a subordinate position. So everyone has to have identical market conditions, and then who's capable, who's smart, let them work. Again in the context, I think we're really delirious, we're not transferring this to a party policy field, you're talking about tycoons that have been created in the last few years in the privatisation process. I ask the question who is who can buy it, you mentioned the PIC "Becay", the PKK, meaning in this context and that it is simply given 14,000 more hectares for a possible 20 years, as suggested, to use under re-authorised conditions. It is logical that the conditions are favourable because the price is not market-based, the price of the lease. So I think it's contradictory, because I'm going to remind you, both of them are combined in the tender privatisation process. So, it's not the state that needs to worry, of course, she needs to worry about the implementation of that contract that will be signed, but she doesn't have to worry about how that owner will manage that combination after the privatisation, because the tender usually prescribes and invests, of course the price to pay for it, the social programme and everything else. Well, he doesn't buy a company he doesn't want to invest in, etc. So, he's got to worry about who buys the company if that company's going to do a good job, if it doesn't fail and go bankrupt. I'd just like you to explain when you were saying... (President: here you go. I really didn't get it, maybe here's a little joke to bring in, you said, quote, "we've ruined the stock reserves." Who were you thinking in that context? Since it was unclear, we can look at the stenogram. Did you mean us personally? (President: I will explain to you, Sasha, only you speak to the messengers. Well, no, I'm talking to you. Of course, no one ruined the stock reserves. Simply, that was the situation when the state had to intervene from stock reserves to preserve social peace. I'm going to remind you again, we've just been on the benches, and I say very responsibly that there is no developed country that has a system of guaranteed prices. As regards interventions carried out, whether they are called stock reserves, national reserves or, as is the case in our nearby countries, intervention agencies, this cannot be considered as guaranteed prices, since no state can buy all the quantities offered, whether they are wheat or other agricultural products. Therefore, these are not guaranteed prices, these are simply prices under which state reserves are fed and used exclusively in the case of certain natural disasters and of course interventions on the market when conditions so require. Otherwise, a 19 billion dinar debt was made before 2000 at the Stock Reserve Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28537	I thank Sashi Vitosevic. Replica, Zoran Angelkovic. Well, a few things: first, of course, to answer this question. Just to remind Mr Vitosevic, as he was the Federal Minister of Agriculture shortly after 5 October, that in 1999, i.e. and bought out in 2000, if I'm not mistaken, 1,512.000 tonnes of wheat, i.e. the family in 1999 at 2000. In 2001, the family of 2001, we discussed here in parliament, 32,000 tonnes were bought alone, that's 50 times less. What were those peasants doing with that wheat? What do you mean, it's 50 times less manufactured? No, and that's how agricultural production was killed, so those peasants were basically ruined because they couldn't sell wheat. That's what stock reserves are for. The country where it has wheat on the market and when it wants to preserve it, then buys it at guaranteed prices, and then has that wheat. Maybe they'll sell even cheaper, what you were saying, to intervene on the market and create a proper, conditionally said, loss, but I protected that agricultural production. And while you're hooking up, what would our people say, who paid for that flour you shared in October of the month, those hundreds of thousands of tons in the field, who paid for it? I remind you, the Serbian government is by decision in February of the month, not to mistake how many billions of dinars are paid because they are divided on a private list by various bakers across Serbia. And you know who signed that decision. That's what the debate was about, you weren't in parliament at the time, not in this assembly, but in the last session. This is not an accusation to you either, because you were not the minister of agriculture of Serbia, but are facts. The minister at the time had no answer, as he had no answer as to how 1,512,000 tonnes of wheat were bought in the previous year, and 32,000 were bought that year. In that sense, I was talking about stock reserves. Stock reserves are kind of a folk bank. As important as the National Bank of America is, so are the American stock reserves that are important for the establishment of a market balance and for the preservation of the appropriate agricultural production that the state is interested in. I'm not saying that she's interested in wheat right now, maybe for another agricultural culture, but for the one she's interested in, she has to provide more favourable loans, not 60% for all loans to be deposited; she has to also provide stimulation, when it comes to compensation, that's what I'm talking about, and when it comes to rent. Secondly, of course this law is social policy. I didn't just say social. After all, what the other state should do, even when you advocate full neoliberalism, but also to enter the element of social policy into every law, with it not at the level of what you say - the 1980s, of course, when the state is not the owner of everything, but in completely different conditions, but in every law there must be an element of social policy, not just social policy. If you ask me and if you ask us in the SPS if we support that these combinations (PIK "Becay" and the PKK) become property of the Serbian state, that the state manages, we absolutely support it. I don't think the state is always a bad boss. The state is a bad boss, and if he's a bad boss, then he's a bad owner, then he's bad and he's government. Let me remind you, the state owns and HE "Gerdap", EPS and NIS, etc., so it doesn't mean he's a bad owner. She's a bad owner where she's not well, but where she wants and has an interest, she can be a good owner and she's a good owner and she can manage well. It's just the point of whether she's interested in letting the farm go completely on the market, so that what you're saying happens, or she's interested in some agricultural production. Today you don't care whether cherry is produced, and at what price it will be, or at the next year, all the trees of cherry will be cut off, and the following year, when the price is double, we will say: plant, and then they won't plant. Therefore, I also said at the outset that we are much more concerned with this article in 71 and in Article 72 where sales are banned. Through this we are adjudicating this, and we don't think that it would break the law or accept this amendment, but the Vice President, that is. The former agriculture minister didn't accept it, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28540	I'm sorry, but I have to give a brief review of this amendment and the evaluations of these new agrobusinesses here, I'm not going to call them tycoons, although it's become a common name. I regret to say that the government itself, including the Ministry of Agriculture, has in some cases helped you and such new landowners reach these agricultural combinations and property, including social and state-owned countries. Two weeks ago, we could hear here, in the end Mr. Smiljanic was present, as "The Unity" from Apatina was sold, who was the president of the tender commission, that it was Mr. Goran Zivkov, the current Minister of Agriculture, decided by his decision to sell the agricultural combination to Mr. Miskovic. We could also hear how Mr. Miskovic treated the workers of the combination, how quickly he fired and how the process of production took place there. As a right-wing party, we certainly have a social program. Someone here respected that my discussion was approximately left-wing. (President: Mr. Machine, who are you replicating? I'm replicating a few MPs who spoke here. (President: You have the right to report for someone's replica, if the party is mentioned, or according to the Rules of Procedure, and you have two minutes of time that you have not just used. ) Then I will use my business law, for I am not fully interpreted as I was saying. I thank you, and I hope that you and the other MPs present will have patience. Then I checked in with the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry I overqualified it after two and a half minutes. So our efforts to accept this amendment are designed to preserve these combinations as significant agricultural resources, to preserve capacities, in particular, I can say responsibly as a veterinarian, to preserve the livestock production that exists in these combinations. Because, by renting state agricultural land from these combinations, it must inevitably follow, and by the speedy process, the sale and slaughter of breeding and tow cattle of these agricultural combinations; further, the food capacities that these combinations have will have no raw materials, will have nothing to process, will remain abandoned and the total price and value of these combinations will be horrified. I think it should be the state's interest to preserve it, that this is, however, we will agree on a transitional period in transition and EU accession and in the area of agriculture we can make modifications. I do not think that by adopting this amendment, the apriors will put themselves in the same position as those who have now bought agricultural combinations, but by decision of the Ministry and local self-government will be selected and meet these combinations at some point until their status issue is resolved. (President: Time.) ) And now the owners of agribusinesses who bought agricultural combinations have leased the state land, but are paying it at a triple the price of which is marketable. No one's causing a problem, and no one's minding it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28541	Everyone has used their rights under this amendment. The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 64th Amendment. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Brance Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28542	Mr. Vice President, it's good for both this assembly and the party you represent to stick to the Rules of Procedure, of course, and the whole state. In some ways, I'm misusing this next amendment... (President: Article 64, so that's all part of it. ) So, a few words about large combined and large systems, simply to make it easier for the soul, as our people say. In this Serbia, besides two combinations, there are other combinations that have experienced or will experience a sad fate. All of us in this room are witnesses to everything that's happened and what's affected it. Of course, I have no desire to accuse the people present here, this ministry and this government, because they have nothing to do with it, but another aspect I want to point out, which I think is important when we talk about big systems, big combinations, and it's also about peasants. Unfortunately, you'll agree with me, I think what we have from processing capacity was mostly, I say, because the combinations are mostly ruined, I'm going to set an example of the Godomin combination that used to be the leader of fruit production in Serbia and the former Yugoslavia. With all the problems that have followed agriculture and large systems for the past 15 years, it came in 2000, one management came, then unable to deal with all the problems. There was no way to get into the privatization. One of the reasons why it didn't get into that sort of thing is exactly what we're talking about today, a state country. Unfortunately, I say it responsibly, there could be no distinction between the social and state countries in the PK "Godomin", i.e. the Municipality of Smederevo, the "Godomin" also spreads on the territory of the Great Plane and Kovina. It simply could not have entered the privatisation process for these reasons, i.e. it was so complicated that there was a further collapse of the combinations, a change of management, because three, four or five managements were replaced in the meantime, that workers themselves, which was paradoxical, sought bankruptcy. Why am I saying this? Smederevo, ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia, is a fruit-wine-radar end. It's no longer a vineyard area. Vineyards have been disembarked. Why? Just because of what I said at the beginning, processing capacity, the wine cellar was part of the PK "Godomin". I agree, and I think it was wise to restructure such a combination earlier, separate it into less overalls, preserve what's healthy, but it didn't happen. I don't want to call anyone now, and at least the people sitting here in front of the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I just have to say this in favor of everything that's been said about the big systems and the big combinations, that the villagers and how they've relied on these big systems, because the processing facilities except for the big systems were gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28543	I thank you, Mr. Stojanovic, for adding the "Gdomin" that we forgot unwarrantedly. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Veroljub Arsic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment to Article 65, and I think he must have justifiably submitted it, you will agree, as it is a contract for the lease of agricultural land on state property. Article 65 says "On the basis of the decision to rent agricultural land in the state property, the Ministry and the tenant conclude a contract on the lease of agricultural land in state property. The contract referred to in Article 1, in particular, shall contain: 1) information on the name of the catastrian municipality, the number and the sub-number of the cadastrian parcel, the name of the latter, the number of the cadastrian plan, the existing method of use (culture) and the cadastrian land class; 2) the duration of the lease" etc., that I do not continue. Veroljub Arsic noted, it is good, that after the 2nd position, item 3 should be added: "In order to secure the payment of the lease, the tenant is obliged to provide a bank guarantee at the value of the lease or a pawny statement for the immovable and movable property he owns, whose value cannot be less than the double value of the lease. "This is only assistance to the Ministry, assistance to whoever rents, and the tenant is bound by this attitude 3, so the tenant is obliged to provide a bank guarantee, a pawn statement. Because, gentlemen, you take a huge area or a certain area of state land to rent, you take off the crops, I pick myself up, I go, the Ministry is slowly preparing for the lawsuit, so you sue for not paying for the land, and then those connections, ties, municipal court, county court, the Supreme Court of Serbia; we will pass as we did with the stock reserves. As a result, this item 3 is added, and only for the purpose of ensuring the payment of the rent, is required by this law on agricultural land. No matter how much you think or don't think, I'm telling you seriously, don't look at it because Mr. Veroljub Arsic or me from the SRS, but you should see that this law is a law on agricultural land and legally possible, and legally protected and financially protected and the Ministry and those who rent, and the bottom line is to give some guarantee. You go to the bank, you look for a loan, you can, the jury, the bill, the signatures, the intubulation, you give the house in stock, you give the land, the cottages, and that's the guarantee that if you don't pay the contract, there'll be a move in terms of a guarantee, it'll have a house of that person, it'll have a guarantee of his land, a cottage. Here in article 65, I don't think you're showing any of the essence of paying the rent. It is the lease and this amendment where Article 2 is added to Article 3, I must repeat once again, you should take it seriously – the tenant is obliged to provide a bank guarantee at the value of the lease or a pawn statement for the immovable and movable property he owns, whose value cannot be less than the double value of the lease. Well, let him immediately consider whether he will pay for it after taking off the harvest or simply have a finished story when this amendment is adopted by this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28545	Thank you. I do. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The assembly of the AP Vojvodina submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 66a be added after article 66a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 70 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Zoran Mašić, please. Mr. Mashic, they've accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28546	I know that it has been accepted, I want to criticise the adoption of the amendment to the text of the bill, because the bill says that land lending income is divided by 60% of the income being made into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and 40% goes to the budget of local self-government. However, the Regional Assembly submitted an amendment proposed by this law, which changes Article 70 and the funds generated by the lease of agricultural land, i.e. state-owned agricultural facilities amounting to 30% of the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget, amounting to 30% of the revenue of the AP Vojvodina budget, and 40% of the budget of the local self-government unit on whose territory agricultural land is located in the state property. Respecting the legal authority and opinion Mr Krasic has expressed here, I think this is essentially an unconstitutional transfer of jurisdiction to certain self-governments. I also believe that there is no basis and need for this law to generate the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina budget, regardless of what is involved in the collection of state land funds from the Vojvodina area. The explanation given by the government is unacceptable for us from the SRS. We are in favour of what is in the basic draft of the law and is given that the revenue obtained from the state's lease with 60% goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and 40% to the budget of local self-government. The Republic of Serbia's budget will fund all the powers of the AP Vojvodina, as they have so far been financed. We don't see any reason to meet again here once, according to us, an autonomous request. Why did the government accept that, she must explain it to the citizens in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28547	I thank you, Mr. Machine. There's no one else on this amendment. We're moving on to the next one. Members of the 71st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28548	I have to take this, Mr. Chairman, because it's about the alienation of agricultural land in state property. As a parliamentary group, we were also categorically against, as well as the SPS parliamentary group, to alienate state land in any way. In line with that, Mr. Dedjanski and I have submitted amendments to Articles 71 and 72, where we propose that they be deleted and not allowed to sell state land. Since the Proposer has not accepted on the Committee, but we have here a public promise that an amendment of the same content will be accepted, only given by the SPS, we support it, because it is in the spirit of our commitment, as a party, that the state country is not alienated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28549	I thank you, Mr. Machine. No one has any more under this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric to article 71. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. The word has Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28550	The Government accepts the amendment to Article 71. The bill, submitted by MP Hranislav Peric, which reads that article 71 is changed and reads: "Arable land in state property cannot be alienated. "At the same time, since it is related, we accept the amendment to Article 72. The bill tabled by MP Hranislav Peric, which reads: "Article 72 with the supertitle is deleted".
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28551	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Perry. I also thank you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group for contributing to this law and for finding a solution for it to be accepted in parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28552	I won't be long, so I won't take the time. I want to thank you for your understanding and since the amendment to the SPS Parliament Club has been accepted, we will vote for this law after this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28553	I thank you, Mr. Perry. So the essence of this law is that agricultural land in state property cannot be alienated, but only leased. So there's no one else on article 71. National MP Hranislav Peric tabled an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above members of 72nd and 72nd. The government has accepted this amendment. Mr. Peric talked about it earlier. This solves Article 71 and Article 72 and the law, in fact, in general, when it comes to adoption in the voting day. Therefore, I find that there is no one to report to this member. The People's MP Stevica Dedjanski submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. (Zoran Mašić, from the post: I give up the explanation. I thank you. Since it's the same essence, he's giving up the story. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 73a be added after article 73a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. No one wants a word. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment proposing that Chapter VII and Articles 78 and 79 be deleted. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28554	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are probably at the very end of this debate. Mr Krasic suggested that Chapter VII entitled "Agricultural Land Administration", and members 78 and 79, be deleted. In principle, the SRS opposes an unfounded increase in the state administration and we therefore find it absolutely unnecessary to set up a agricultural land administration. The affairs of the administration, and we have already pointed out, for agricultural land systematised in Article 79, should be provided by the current services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. It's our clear principled attitude. It's a very interesting discussion today. However, she has opened up some doubts and dilemmas, in my opinion, and probably with my colleagues from the SRS. So, colleague Kronic said we had an academic debate. Unfortunately, we didn't. The academic debate is being held in an academic institution by academic people, but you probably thought by having a polite discussion and that's what characterized this. Someone said there were left opinions here and there were right opinions. Someone said agriculture shouldn't serve social policy. We're a society in transition. Who doesn't know, the EU, the OSCE, all those who are here and who are "helping us", let's call it that, from abroad, say that when society is in transition social policy is a necessary part of the overall policy. That's what you should know from a position far ahead of me, but let me remind you of that. What I am free to say, I see, is that someone has pleaded that they will vote on the law, and we MPs of the SRS are essentially not satisfied with how agricultural policy is being run, agricultural policy in Serbia. We said it in principle and there are many reasons to confirm it. Namely, what's the basic thesis, what do I mean? I was first surprised when I saw that the Deputy Prime Minister signed the mandate and authorized himself to be an authorised representative, it's an unusual practice. I am Paja Momchilov, who empowers me to be the authorized president. It's been subdued to the government, not to say I'm a formalist, because the point is more important. Once again, I want to say, although time has gone by, when you say what's more important, form or content, both of them, because one without another doesn't exist and that's the basic logical truth. We're often taught what is and what isn't, and let's get this straight. So there's no essence without form, because the content without form doesn't exist. What's the problem? The problem is that this ministry runs an anti-European policy, a policy against the European Union, and that is very easy to show. What is Europe's goal today – therefore, healthy and safe food, a healthy environment. Those are the ultimate goals. Of course, the principle of self-satisfaction is a key and basic principle for the European Union. How do you do that? Scary measures of protectionism. Now someone could say what it is in Europe when two-thirds of the budget is near, of what they collect from the citizens of the European Union, it was given to the agricultural budget, and today it gives 50% of that budget and angry citizens of Europe that so much resources are being poured out on something that is agricultural production. Someone said, no matter who, no price protected. There are target prices, you should read it because it is a term used by the European Union and you know what that means. Clearly, when one is exported to a third market, if it has to export at lower prices, that difference is charged from the budget. This is how the European Union works when it comes to agricultural protection. I'm not going to tell you about the reforms that have happened, where we have a predominance today, not to produce as much as possible, but by a hectare of production, you know that, because the state, or the European Union, and how it addresses these economic producers. Simple is why. Strategicly, one country has to have three things to survive: food, water and energy. No one is crazy that what is essential for survival and for healthy development does not stimulate and encourage. And that was absurd, and you can laugh all you want, so in 2000, 8 billion people were produced, and that year, 6.1 billion people lived on the planet. Excessives were made, but again, to remind you, 700 million people were starving in the same year 2000. These are the realities we live in today. So, these stories that we're not going to die, that we're not going to give some tycoons this and that, that's non-European stories, and that's not the European Union, that's something that's strange, non-existent, and I'm incomprehensible. Just to remind you, since you're Europeans, that you started talking to me from there... (President: This is about the title, Mr. Momchilov, it's about the subtitle... Don't tell me you don't understand, it's okay, it's tired, we're gonna get to the main thing, I'm gonna go around a little bit and explain a little bit more. I'm absolutely saying this, if you followed me, not to have a dialogue, let me finish at least one sentence, I said, excessive administration, and I'll say what the function of this administration is; I'm saying it's not in service of what is a modern European agricultural policy, and if you don't understand, there's nothing I can do about it. I thank you, anyway, for your guidance. The principles of the European Union, therefore, say this in the founding act 32, 38 - to increase production productivity. Here's how the production of the stock fund was increased in 2000, what is the yield, these are statistics from the Republic of Serbia until 2006 and here are the data, you have that data, as it appears to be an increase in production. What's the yield per hectare of grain, they say in Germany 10,000 metric tons, if it is, I can't believe it, I think it's fake, with us three and something and that's our reality. Someone's gonna say, it's because of those last years. And what years have you been with? It is known what the yields were in 1999 per hectare, and what they are today. How much progress has been made since 2000 is very interesting to me. I understand for those 10 years that weren't good results, we had sanctions and war. Now you have no sanctions and no war, you have donations, and what about them? What are these donations, that's a very interesting question for me, and how did they contribute to the increase in production? Another task – increasing the standard of living in agriculture through an increase in farmers' earnings. As the peasant stands today, where are your data, how much better is his material condition, excluding individuals from whom some have received strange loans by strange criteria, without justification and justification for the cost of the funds invested and without control of what has been done with these funds? Further, stabilization of agricultural products markets. In Europe, there are 23 - 25 markets formed in the European Union. How's our market? Are we like agricultural land dependent on imports? We all import, agricultural products of all you have here imported, from fruits, vegetables, look at apples, there are bananas, for certain categories. Furthermore, we have to guarantee constant supply and natural consumer supply at reasonable prices. This is the European Union. When you go to the market, when you have to buy, and the average personal income is 20,000, to feed the four-member family, to ask you how much you'll pay. Of course, there's always the story that the price of the peasant, the producer, is small, and for whoever has to buy it, it's big, but let's get out of it. How much is our deficit, import and export? In 1999, it was exactly $37m, and in 2003 it was $238m. What are the successes, the shifts, and what are you doing? You're administering, and you're pushing your waist aside absolutely. You're destroying the existing thing that was good at making something new, and you can see it in this particular article. We're gonna increase the administration, we're gonna spin around in circles, we're gonna control maybe, maybe I'm naive, where there's a potential source of money. It won't all depend on us, it'll depend on local self-government, and it'll get a piece of cake, maybe a province, but there'll still be some money and a possibility of money being made available. That's the point of why you do it like this. Not to mention the fact that you've demoted the sanitary service and control by bringing it to the head of an electric engineer. You're talking to us about past times; a man of July who today is your chief inspector, a juliacian with an exact number of membership cards, who was in all governments and ministries. You're talking about past times. You know what the subject is. He doesn't matter. What you've done with that sanitary control and the money spent on donations to establish a healthy food chain, where you've thrown out, you want to throw out doctors, where you're in charge of food health, it's not in the modern world, it's not in Europe. You want me to read you regulations, the 2000 regulation, laugh, that talk about how food and these products are controlled. You want me to tell you about the 1830s, the 29th regulation where you have genetically modified organisms, food and monitoring of harmful food effects. What did you follow from the harmful effects of food, what is the withdrawal of food we eat, you want to tell me, since you're an expert? Is 50% of the food we eat genetically modified? Come out and tell me. If you don't know why it might be dangerous... (President: Mr. Momchilov, now it's about time, it's no longer a topic. I'm done. These are answers that do not give us confidence when we have a proposal from people who are high-ranking and who are tasked with dividing Serbia's citizenship into similar and unsuitable. These are people who advocate the principle of retribution and divide large social groups into proper and incorrect, pure Nazism and fascism. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28555	There's no one in this amendment anymore. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 84 be added after article 84. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 85, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the Bill in particular, does the Deputy Prime Minister's representative Ivana Dulic-Markovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28556	I just want to answer briefly that for the first time we have a surplus in exporting 250 million agricultural products last year. Last year, we have a 15% increase in the production of tow heroin, and 8% in pig growing. I would like to say that I still have more confidence in Mr. Mašić as a veterinarian in the control of products of animal origin and that this is a system that exists in Europe and that if we really know anything, rely on European rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-27-0.u28557	I thank Mrs. Dulic. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Tomorrow is, as you know, Vidovdan. I wish you happy Vidovdan and all the citizens of Serbia. We're not working tomorrow, we're working Thursday at 10.00 hours, and I thank everyone for today's constructive debate in the details of this law. I also thank the former agriculture minister, current vice president Ivana Dulic-Markovic for understanding that we have come to a good law in favour of Serbian citizens and agriculture, on behalf of the SPS. You see how politically angry opponents can find a compromise solution for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Thank you again, goodbye and pleasant.
