ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26299	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their voting cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that no one has reported a leave. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move on to a common principle search of the 2-4rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT, Proposal for a common principle search on drafts of the law on points 2, 3 and 4 and before the opening of a joint principled search remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the Code of Criminal Procedure, a draft law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants, and a bill on amendments and additions to the law on the regulation of courts. Does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we have an important job to do today, because we have key laws to regulate the work of courts in the criminal area. The problem of crime, dealing with it, and the requirement for faster and more efficient action in the area have led to the adoption of this draft law on the agenda. The Code of Criminal Procedure is one of the most modern laws that we have, and indeed also in European proportions. It still retains the continental approach to this issue, but with the receipts of Anglo-Saxon law, which should speed up and make the procedure more effective, and gives the courts in their hands a valid tool to quickly and effectively deal with corruption and other types of crime, and on the other hand to protect citizens' rights, including those blamed in criminal proceedings. The bill contains a series of newspapers. What we had to do first is to comply with certain standards of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the standards of material rights, given the new approach in the Criminal Code. Excuse me, may I continue? The second newspaper in this legislative proposal is an act within the meaning of Article 6. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, requiring a clear separation of the law enforcement body from the court, as an independent body that should only be tried and not prosecuted. In fact, we have so far had one solution that gave the combination and, they say, the co-operation of the two authorities, so we have had a situation where citizens find it difficult to distinguish the prosecutor from the court, prosecutors as law enforcement authorities and parties in the proceedings and the court to judge. In that sense, there was definitely a separation that should lead to two key things. On the one hand, the investigation procedure and a large part of the investigation process are entrusted to the prosecutor as a law enforcement body, with the detention of certain elements of the court proceedings that existed earlier, i.e. Control by an investigative judge, related to the control of the protection of those basic civil rights. It was inevitable if it was given the fact that we signed the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which explicitly states that the court is the body that is independent, and that it would have to create an image of independence, even in relation to the defendant himself. In that sense, the prosecutor is separated, he is entrusted with certain affairs, and, let me say, for these matters, he is bearing today a definitive responsibility under this proposal. So far, we've had a situation where the prosecutor simply put in a request for an investigation and the investigative judge is involved in the collection and handling of matters that should be done by the prosecutor as a law enforcement authority, and the prosecutor himself had the prosecution's cover. For these reasons, this separation has been carried out and that is the key reason to know that the court is the only authority that judges, and that the prosecutor is the law that prosecutes, collects evidence and presses charges. On the other hand, this way we accomplish something that was now missing in this process. Besides, yesterday you heard stories, there's procedures, so you don't know why they're not done. It's about the speed of the procedure. The court case is always much slower. In the process of gathering evidence, an investigative and investigative process, it is possible that the prosecutor, in co-operation with internal affairs authorities, can quickly and effectively collect evidence and shorten the process, or speed it up. Therefore, it is provided for this Code to guarantee the full security and protection of the defendants in the investigation process, all necessary evidence may be collected which gives the possibility that no investigation should be conducted if sufficient valid data are collected. They'll be valid, but you always have the possibility of a lawyer present in that investigative procedure. And, on the other hand, you now have a video recording obligation, so you'll drop objections about possible abuses or the application of the forces of the MUP or the prosecution, as they say, against the defendants. Normally those key rights will be protected by the control of the court. The D.A. will be able to come up with a solution to conduct an investigation, but the defendant and his defender have the right to appeal. On the other hand, the possibility of remanding custody is still left to the court, in the fact that it is according to the Convention that the only one who can determine the prison court. This refers to a number of other shops, such as entering the apartment and the like. So you have one control, and that way, in fact, we've kept one for now transitional solution. In a large number of systems, prosecutors are conducting a full investigation, but we, given that as a society we are in transition, where there is the possibility of possible abuse, have left one minimum authority to the investigating judge and the court to exercise proper control of work in this pre-critical procedure. The next newspaper to be imposed as an obligation to enter into this law is the possibility of confiscation of property. We've had a situation so far that the criminal proceedings lasted long, the defendants alienated the property, and when the verdict was reached, there was no possibility of repossessing and returning that property taken away from this society by a criminal act. In this way, it is possible for the prosecutor to put forward a proposal and make a decision on confiscation of property until the criminal proceedings are over and thus prevent the defendant from alienating the property he has obtained in the criminal proceedings. It's also intended as a newspaper something that I think we've missed. An earlier law on organised crime was passed very quickly. That's why they're about to pass a new law. Experience has shown that crime is becoming more complex and more dangerous. Society must react in an adequate way. For these reasons, a number of those things that could have been applied to organised crime have now been introduced by this law as a possibility to apply in any more complex criminal proceedings. First of all, it's clearly defined what organized crime is. On the other hand, they are clearly regulated all so-called. techniques that can be applied not only to organised crime, we now give them the possibility to apply to any more complex type of crime. I don't have to count it, I know it's quite attractive, and it's been going through the press, it's about a protected witness, a witness associate, an undercover agent, simulated legal affairs, the ability to prevent money laundering, the possibility of listening, etc. I have to say, we've made an important paper here, too. In the previous period, you had an amazing thing: that the head of an organized crime group could have been a protected witness and been absolved. So whoever created the group arranged to commit crime could have been a protected witness. According to this proposal, this can no longer happen, not only for the head of the group, but also for other persons who have participated in the formation of the group to perform organised crimes. The possibility of reducing the fines to 50%, possibly up to one-third, and only exceptionally, for those milder cases, the release from punishment, but a conviction has to be passed. Can't a person who's been committing crime, even a minor, be appalled tomorrow and be in the same status as other citizens who have acted in accordance with their obligations under the law. Another newspaper, I think, is extremely important for speeding up criminal proceedings, which is the possibility of alignment, i.e. prosecutors and defendants can agree on penalties and thus shorten the procedure. This is extremely important, which we have to bear in mind that in all these cases the state apparatus is running whole, procedures are going on, costs are being created, and in this way you get the opportunity, with full recognition of the defendant and possible acceptance of the damages and the agreement on punishment, that it is being given to the court and if the court finds that there are no legal disturbances to pass the verdict. Special newspaper, and I think she's gonna relieve our courts, is talking about so-called. speedy procedures and mediation in criminal proceedings. It's for those crimes up to three years. So, the possibility of alignment will be given, and when the process is achieved, it ends, to pleasure and to the self-damaged. The state is not exposed to costs, and the defendant has clear certainty, does not have to wait a year or two for the court to judge, so to make a similar decision. I say, these are the things that need to contribute to the solution of the two basic requirements that are being made before us. On the one hand, to find an adequate measure and to give a valid finding to the courts that they can deal with the crime which, in the previous period, has increased, and on the other hand, to achieve certain efficiency and cost reduction for society. Normally, this way is regulated are valid and part of the pardon, part of the statement of court notice and rehabilitation. That's why this is the criminal code. If we really want to stand up to crime in a valid way, which is not a problem, but far more complex and organized, we need to bring in the funds and put them into the hands of the state authorities that need to be dealt with. For these reasons, I plead that this law be passed, with a little note. Two things came up as a problem. In the previous period, there were procedures that had been pulling away for years, and then the president went to you, so the procedure had to be repeated. Now I see that certain amendments have been put in place, which we will accept and give the opportunity to, and if the president of the council ceases to judge the case, it will not have to repeat the whole case, and again for years to last, but to replace the president more. On the other hand, an amendment has been given which brings the detention issue back to the standard: six months in the investigation and every two months checking, but now from that higher court, to ensure objectivity in assessing whether there is a reason to extend detention. There are another series of newspapers in the law itself, but I think it will be pointed out in this debate, with what I suggest you adopt this law, after a comprehensive debate and amendments that will be adopted, and what I have seen, a certain number of amendments really improves the text of the law, make it more precise and will be accepted, not counting on who has submitted them, it is important that the amendments are valid and contribute to our joint work. For these reasons, I say, after the debate, I hope that the law will be passed, and I thank you in advance for the debate and professional contribution to this text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26301	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26302	Dear President, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members and fellow MPs, before the start of the debate on this agenda, I would like to, on behalf of the SPS, today, on 9 May, to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially to the NOR participants, to congratulate the day of victory over fascism, because it is necessary to know and mark it. When it comes to this set of laws that are now on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SPS, I will say a few words about the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it is most important in this set of laws and I think that it should be given the utmost attention. Namely, I will list a number of reasons why the SPS MPs will support the proposal for this code. Regardless of the need for radical reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure and independent of some of its weak points, the existing law could be marked as modern. However, the practice, the application of the law, has shown that a number of its solutions need to be reviewed and redesigned, in order to create one of the most favourable legal environments that would, on the one hand, enable effective crime control, while, on the other hand, consistently safeguarding the rights of participants in criminal proceedings. Some solutions in the existing Code of Criminal Procedure deserve to be reconsidered, that is, some could now be said that they did not essentially endure the test of time. Certain additions and amendments to the existing Code of Criminal Procedure could have been made better, but then they would have a huge number of amendments to the law, and that would be a very strange law with so many amendments, so logically it came to the making of a new code. The new Code of Criminal Procedure does not include solutions aimed at being original in the light of existing legal solutions, those solutions which have proved to be good in practice or are simply used to them. On the contrary, all those solutions that have been overcome or which have shown certain anomalies in practice have been changed, new solutions have been introduced based on comparative, positive experiences, or given the expected favourable effects, and based on the study of criminal-processing doctrine. The new Code of Criminal Procedure does not constitute a radical shift in relation to the type of criminal procedure that has been dominated for decades by our legal system, nor does it signify the abandonment of one of the already established criminal-processing traditions, but it must certainly be an expression of new needs, and the face of a legal system with one of the already expressed efficiency of our existing criminal proceedings, which in most cases is an inadmissible dispute. The SPS believes that it is good that a new criminal code has been adopted, as much greater effects will be achieved by such a procedure than the amendments have been affected by the existing law. Of course, it is undeniable that the proposed Code of Criminal Procedure has an express link to the existing legislation and solutions that have proved to be good and adequate during the decades of application in practice. The proposed Code of Criminal Procedure also contains some new solutions, which are characteristic of modern criminal-processing systems, which will allow 1) criminal proceedings to be faster and more efficient, and hence significantly cheaper; 2) to ensure consistent protection of the Constitution and international acts guaranteed by human rights and freedoms; 3) to make it more effective to align our criminal-processing rights solutions with other laws relating to the issue of criminal proceedings; 4) to regulate our country's international obligations regarding criminal-processing legislation, to be adequate and effective, 5) to ensure consistent compliance with the principle of fair and fair conduct of criminal proceedings, etc. One reason the SPS supports the Code of Criminal Procedure is that it retains its mixed character, i.e. continental criminal proceedings with established sanctions, which is otherwise typical of most European continental states. Countries having a continental-European type of criminal procedure gradually introduce certain elements typical of adversial criminal proceedings, so that modern criminal-processing law is increasingly characterized by a certain and rather consistent convergence of the elements of these two basic criminal-processing but even legal systems. Such elements are possible and should be introduced into our Code of Criminal Procedure, but there will be no change in the basic nature of our criminal proceedings to the continental European type of criminal procedure. In such elements, for example. is the possibility of introducing so-called Party settlements, i.e. prior agreement between the prosecutors and the guilty of pleading guilty, provided that the prosecutor gives up some criminal acts or agrees to a certain sentence and so on, allowing for a simpler and faster solution to the criminal case, but thus does not give up dramatically and to the principle of truth, because the defendant admits one or more crimes. The new Code on Criminal Procedure has ensured that the parties play a more significant role in carrying out evidence, particularly in relation to the public prosecutor as a party representing so-called. Public charges. Although, in line with the basic settings of the Euro-continental mixed criminal proceedings, the court must nevertheless retain a dominant role in carrying out the evidence. In the new Code of Criminal Procedure, there has also been a more complete definition of some terminology issues, such as evidence, investigative work, the concept of crime and criminal responsibility, etc. In addition, the new Code of Criminal Procedure provided for improving procedural discipline and more effective security of the presence of the accused and other persons in criminal proceedings. The proposed Code of Criminal Procedure introduces much more order in criminal proceedings, so in addition to the classical form of calling, it also predicted new modern opportunities, and all in order to make the criminal proceedings as efficient and rational as possible. In a modern way, the proposed code formulates the categories of guarantees, which are used in modern legislation as a broader security of the presence of the accused and control of compliance with the obligations imposed on the accused. In modern criminal proceedings, the guarantee is gaining more and more importance, which, in addition to bail, imposes other obligations. Improving procedural discipline, our legislator has tried to achieve to some extent by creating conditions for the increased fine of entities that violate their procedural obligations. In doing so, our Code of Criminal Procedure does not contain any measure which, apart from sanctions, can achieve certain objectives. The paper proposed by the Code on Criminal Procedure of Classification in the Order of Contemporary Criminal Codes in Europe is a different regulation of the position of an associate witness. In fact, a more significant modification of the existing material condition has been made compared to the possibility of a particular person becoming a witness associate. The solution so far, under which the property depended, among other things, on the existence of extenuating circumstances, was inappropriate, since it is not realistic that the determination of such circumstances is made possible at a time when criminal charges have just been filed, and even during the procedure, since it is the criterion of measuring a person who is already found to be wrong, which cannot be the case here. While such a solution, on the other hand, was also unrealistic, since such circumstances can be reliably determined only in a fully conducted criminal procedure, based on evidence carried out, rather than on some flat-rate ex ante assessment, which would in fact potentially lead to one kind of naked arbitration. We believe that the proposed solutions are based on the comparative criminal-processing practice of modern countries. The new Code of Criminal Procedure gives far more attention to the protection of the procedural position damaged and its overall favourable position. Namely, the damaged must not be considered as a mere means of proof when being heard as a witness, but should be taken into account other interests in criminal proceedings. The new Code of Criminal Procedure, in accordance with widely accepted international standards, regulates the protection of witnesses in an appropriate manner and carries out emergency legal remedies in a reasonable number. What is particularly well done in the proposed code is the fact that its more adequate system has been carried out, in particular with regard to the criminal offences of organised crime and the protection of witnesses, who were in the existing law in an inappropriate place. The proposed code plays a far greater role as a public prosecutor in the investigation, and the role must not be reduced only to a certain declarative level, as is the case in the current criminal code. Our current criminal procedure has allowed some of its stages to be unnecessaryly doubled. This was particularly evident in the pre-crisis procedure and in the investigation. It is also unacceptable for the public prosecutor to act in many cases as a transmission between the police, which has done its part of the work in a pre-requisite procedure, and the court before which criminal proceedings should take place. That is, as is most often the case today, that the public prosecutor's retrieval act should be just a prescribed criminal police report. Today the world is dominated by criminal proceedings in which the investigation is entrusted to a public prosecutor or police under the supervision of a public prosecutor. All this suggests that a public prosecutor must play a more responsible role in investigations and actions that precede the investigation, i.e. in a pre-criminal procedure. Such a solution allowed the public prosecutor to carry out all the investigative actions carried out in the previous investigation and in an investigation that should take place very quickly according to the proposed solutions because most of the work would already be done in the previous investigation. The proposed solutions to the previous investigation and investigation would be one joined-up phase containing the current pre-criminal procedure and investigation. Such solutions make the criminal procedure much faster. The proposed Code of Criminal Procedure, which I have already pointed to, has improved the position of the defendant who, through his lawyer, has the right to ask the public prosecutor to take certain investigative actions during the investigation, and if he disagrees, the decision is made by a judge who can carry out such actions himself. The proposed method of investigation I believe will also lead to a different form of control of the indictment. After the investigation was completed, the public prosecutor would either press charges or suspend, if there were no legal conditions to continue the proceedings, or file charges. The accused shall be trained in all his rights and duties under the procedure. All of this indicates that the objective of the change in the criminal code is to make the criminal procedure as effective as possible. It can be said, in the end, that the proposed Code of Criminal Procedure in a modern, efficient and systematic manner regulates the issues covered by this Code and makes this matter far more effective than it has ever been before. According to us in the SPS, these are sufficient reasons to support this bill and we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26303	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. Here you go. Group president for European Serbia. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26304	Dear gentlemen, we have heard from the Minister and at this session, as well as from previous days in the media, that this Code of Criminal Procedure, in addition to the traditional institutes on which criminal rights are based, contains several new solutions, which, in the spirit of time, make certain institutes more modern and efficient. Any effort by every minister and every ministry, which goes towards improvement and progress, to the benefit of strengthening civil consciousness and the civil state, is welcome. My general objection to this law is this: and recently, when we adopted the Penal Code, I said that, in my opinion, they were fines for certain crimes, and I primarily meant crimes against life and bodies and crimes against the general security of people and against health. Large ranges have been established, with a very low minimum prescribed penalty for these crimes. The advocates of such an idea feel it is good to leave the judges as wide a range as possible, so that the judge will, in the circumstances of the case, determine the level of punishment more correctly. But compared to our practice so far convinced the dream that it's not good. And then I said and now I remind you that you will often read in the paper that the young man who killed his girlfriend, and both of them have 20 and change years, received a sentence of seven-eight years in prison, and that it is not only as a motive, but also as an extenuating circumstance taken into account the youth's jealousy. These are incredible nonsensions, and that is why I do not agree with certain institutes in the proposal of this Code, which in my opinion are excessively and needlessly liberal. But let's take the turn. The minister said the bill strengthens the role of the public prosecutor. We heard, the investigation would be run by a public prosecutor after a new one. And that's okay. The so-called prosecutorial investigation is a qualitative shift and flows of modern legal systems, but only in developed democracies and states where the executive authority does not exercise self-government and, of course, where the state government does not exercise extra-institutional control over judicial authority. The prosecution investigation would be very good if in our country the prosecution were either independent and professional and people were strong in will and morals. But before me and other MPs, when there are many criminal charges in the drawers that are activated only in the event of a mere political need, when prosecutors are extremely weak materially and humanly equipped, this democratic achievement turns to the opposite. For us, Article 46 of Article 3 is disputed. The bill, where it is stated that a public prosecutor will without delay initiate a disciplinary procedure against persons who have not acted on his request, and is referring to elders who are handled by police authorities or other state bodies. Is the attorney general under the laws in force now authorized to initiate disciplinary proceedings in the authorities of the state administration? Is this possible under the State Administration Act or the Civil Service Act? We all know it's not possible. And the proposer of this law also knew that it was not possible, but it was logical that if a public prosecutor could initiate a criminal procedure, then he could do something less important, which is to initiate a disciplinary procedure. The idea was, I suppose, that through this provision the changes in the laws in the area of the state administration that I have stated are being initiated. However, it is not a good attitude and it is not a good legal path. The Constitutional Court could dispute the legality of such a provision. But more importantly, it is a question of whether the lack of police and other state authorities at the request of the prosecutor is a disciplinary offense or a criminal offence. That's definitely both. But first of all, it has to be a crime. So if you really want to strengthen the role of a public prosecutor, then do what will not be a violation of the existing legal rules and what will essentially be the only right: in the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, prescribe such a criminal act. That is why we have also submitted an amendment to Article 46(3) of this Code, which we will discuss when the amendments to this law are debated and we have suggested that the public prosecutor may initiate a disciplinary procedure, which is in accordance with the existing legal rules. Then, I'm going to talk about one really essential thing from the beginning of my presentation. In Article 268, under the term "Absolvement of the criminal prosecution of a suspect who has fulfilled certain obligations", it is prescribed that a public prosecutor may delay criminal prosecution for criminal offences for which fines or sentences are intended for up to three years, if the suspect accepts one or more of the following: removing the consequences of a criminal offence or compensation for damages; fulfils the obligation of maintenance; subject to withdrawal from alcohol or drugs; undergoes psychosocial therapy; is employed at the workplace which is available; pays a certain amount in the humanitarian fund; performs certain social benefit work, with the possibility of the public prosecutor giving and the obligation of the suspect to meet the property-law claim damaged or to be personally excused. Therefore, if it fulfils one or more of those obligations, the public prosecutor may decide that the suspect, who has committed a criminal offence for which a fine or sentence is prescribed for up to three years, is to be pardoned by the execution of a criminal offence, by the fact that in such a case the injured will not have the right to carry out the prosecution on his own in accordance with Article 60. I note that the public prosecutor's decision to act in this way is not required to agree with the damaged. Based on the question, how would a suspect react to such a case for forgiveness of prosecution? Will such a decision by the public prosecutor be viewed as satisfying justice and justice? Is it always possible to remove the consequences of the crime after the crime, for which the prison has been threatened for up to three years, and will the suffering of physical pain, fear or trauma of the injured be satisfied with the damage? Now I'm going to tell you only a few criminal acts under the Criminal Code, valid, where a fine or sentence of up to three years has been threatened. For example, in Article 127, under the heading - Unpreaching aid, it reads: “Whoever does not provide assistance to a person who is in immediate danger to life, although he could have done so without danger to himself or to another, will be punished by a fine or prison until one year. If there has been a serious health disorder or other serious physical injury to the person in immediate danger of life, the perpetrator will be punished by fine or prison for up to two years." Article 162 -- The destruction of voting documents says: "Who destroys, damages or withdraws or conceals a ballot or some other document on voting in the elections or in the referendum will be fined or jailed by one year. If the act referred to in Article 1 makes a member of the electoral committee or another person in the exercise of office in connection with the vote, he will be sentenced to prison from three months to three years." Then, in Article 184 of the applicable Criminal Code, under the heading - Forwarding in prostitution, it is said: "Who cites or encourages another to prostitution or participates in handing over a person to another person for prostitution or who, through means of public information or other similar means of propagating or promoting prostitution, will be punished by fine or imprisonment for up to three years. If the act of Article 1 has been carried out according to a minor, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of one to ten years." Let me quote another member who, in my opinion, took a good look at this which is a problem that I've identified. This is Article 253, under the heading - Unencouragement of medical care, says: "A doctor who, contrary to his duty, refuses to show medical attention to the person in need of such assistance, who is in immediate danger of life or the danger of serious physical injury or severe health disorder, will be punished by fine or prison for up to two years". It is precisely because of all of this that it is not enough for the prosecutor's decision under certain conditions, as stated here, to simply prevent the injured from continuing to pursue criminal prosecution in relation to the one who did it to him. Such a provision in this article of the Code proposal is too liberal. She's even nonsensical compared to Article 475. Proposal for a Code. In Article 475. The draft code shall be prescribed for the mediation procedure for the achievement of the settlement between the accused and the damaged, for offences for which a fine or sentence of up to one is prescribed, and in specific cases up to three years. In Article 475, paragraph 9 states that if the injured or accused do not agree to the settlement procedure, the prosecutor shall continue to prosecute or act in accordance with Article 268. Proposal for a Code. In other words, the prosecutor may give up prosecution even in case the damaged does not agree to a settlement. In doing so, the Prosecutor shall, in practice, be free to decide when he or she will act in accordance with Article 268. The bill of law and pardon criminal prosecution, for such a decision is not required. I repeat, such a solution in the bill is too free, and let us not forget that the reform of the judiciary has just begun and it is expected to last until 2011, which clearly states that the judiciary is burdened by many problems at this time and that they will likely last. In that sense, by amendment to Article 268, we have proposed that this institute be suspended, but for crimes for which fines or prison sentences are prescribed for up to one year instead of up to three years, as you propose in this draft criminal code. In addition to these essential things, we have proposed a few amendments to improve the text of the law itself. We suggested that an ugly word in the law, which is "a corpse", which is derived from a corpse, be replaced by a more appropriate word: "body". In doing so, we took care of the context of each member, so that when it comes to postmortem, it is enough to say the bodies, because the autopsy is not carried out on a living person, and in some other members, depending on the context, we used the body of the deceased. We don't have a government report on these amendments or I haven't been able to reach them, and that's why I'm talking about them, wanting to draw attention to this at the time of the minister, because I think such issues should be addressed by the Serbian Academy of Science, or the Serbian Language Institute. The laws used to be written in a beautiful literary language, today they are written as they are spoken, in a dry bureaucratic language, and I think it would be good for the whole of the law to avoid words as horny as I have cited.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26305	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26306	Today, a united debate over three draft laws and a representative of the government has hardly used one sentence to explain two other proposals, a bill on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutoral assistants, and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts. First of all, I'd like to comment on the third law with a few sentences. It is a really short law, in several provisions changes the existing law, but obviously with the aim of preparing a judicial system for a moment when appeals courts will not live without our first-degree and second-degree courts being left without jurisdiction. And I hope that our amendment has been accepted, which we've removed from that obvious mistake. As for the second law, if you're saying that prosecutors are separated from the court, here in the name of the law, you can see that you're putting them together with the judges. Of course, we have submitted a lot of amendments to this law, and all amendments are detailed, and this is about one concept disagreement, and I wouldn't spend much time on this law because we are going through 18 amendments and discussions on these amendments to get to know the public in detail why we're not in favour of this bill. Before I move on to what is today a central topic, a criminal code, I'd like to take a look at yesterday's debate and some details, why it took the proponent to first make a decision on the strategy, and then get these laws going. Because that decision on the strategy foresees practically all of what these laws continue to potential. It is said – a vision for the new judiciary, that the investigative system has been replaced in several neighbouring countries more efficiently and with regard to the resources needed by a less demanding acoustic model. That's the first reason. The second reason it's listed, it's the judge's decision. And what surprised me, I believed that the government was limited by the provisions of the Constitution and the law and that it must be respected. However, on the 23rd page of this decision, it is written - criminal prosecution for crimes prescribed by the ratified international conventions and other laws specifically prescribed cases, may be subject to the subsequent instructions of the Justice Ministry, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we have ratified something, it has now become an integral part of our legal political system, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter and all our regulations. I don't know why a special recommendation from the Justice Ministry would be needed, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then it is said that the procedure for issuing this instruction will be governed by law, in order for the government to exercise its powers in a transparent manner. You can see that in the future, we can expect the Ministry of Justice to write us some new regulations, new procedural regulations, even though these ratified contracts have a lot of things embedded in the legal system, and money laundering, and the suppression of organised crime, and the suppression of international terrorism. It is already contained in some of our regulations, whether in the Criminal Code as a material norm, or in some other regulations, but it is already contained. However, you see, according to this strategy, the ministry will gain much more importance. I want to go back to this draft criminal code. It seems to me to be a regulation written by forensics and investigators, because primate and quality of the provisions is exactly what they call evidence, means of proof, without entering the termological difference. Everything else is side-by-side. You just had a chance to hear what this would mean in practice, Article 268. A bill, where a public prosecutor can delay prosecution, even if it is indisputable between him and the defendant that the crime has been committed. If the act is indisputable, then some responsibility will inevitably follow. Whoever decides on responsibility is a court, one who relieves or releases criminal responsibilities, is a court, not a public prosecutor. There's something done here through the form of prosecution. The main objection by the SRS can be divided into two groups. The first group of objections refers to the prescribed provisions of the existing Code on Criminal Procedure and the fact that this proposal for a Code, in those provisions prescribed, does not remove those original irregularities of the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. I suppose you'll probably have 20 and some amendments to the SRS and adopt, because they refer to these basic corrections of the existing text. What I have to tell you is, before I move on to the central issue, where there should be an investigation and who needs to conduct the investigation. You stated here in an explanation that you were only taking care of the provision of Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. You've forgotten that there is a Article 5 that concerns the deprivement of freedom and the conduct of police authorities. I think that you are inadequately invited to Article 6, and that it is a mistake that you did not call on Article 5, because you did not have the opportunity to see all the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which in a very precise way define what is the right to a fair trial, what is the right to a trial without undue delay, what is the presummation of innocence, who can deprive freedom, how long it can be held in custody, under which conditions an investigation is conducted, who is conducting an investigation, the right to defend, and what makes a court the essence of every human and human being's rights, and that is the right to a fair and just trial. And if that were a little bit interpreted, you'd see that this transition to a new so-called. the accused model of criminal proceedings inadequate. You have a provision saying that an authorised official of the Ministry of Interior or a public prosecutor may conduct a search of the apartment. Does that mean that in the future, when public prosecutors are elected, they must have a coursejudo, a black karate belt and be certified to know they're shooting from M55. You probably know that even when that search of the apartment goes on that many times, the situation has to be applied physically, and that there is a need for some detention, or even a deprivement of freedom. You put it alternatively, not cumulatively, you didn't even make the police do it in the presence of a public prosecutor, but you put it in or, maybe one, maybe the other, can do it together. That's the only way to interpret it. If you wanted to transfer the investigation to a public prosecutor, then perhaps you had in mind the Rules of Procedure and the evidence used before The Hague tribunal. I have to tell you that this rule has been condemned by all the professional circles in Europe, because one is imperfect, incomplete, and even a very contradictory mix of everything and everything. Now our public prosecutors are going to look like Carla del Ponte. Now let me explain to you what it's like in The Hague. In The Hague, the prosecutor's charge is filed. One judge confirms this, that the arrest warrant is accompanied by two pages with the prescribed provisions of the Statute and the Rules of Procedure and Evidence on the fundamental rights of the accused. The defendant comes in, he sits in jail, he's in custody. First time he calls and pleads whether he understands the indictment, he takes the opportunity to say whether he has a lawyer or he will defend himself, and he goes back into custody. Then the public prosecutor enters the detention unit to talk, because they no longer point out that it's so much an investigation, but a conversation in which some inconceivables will be removed, inconceivably, and this phase is called the so-called so-called. The preliminary part of the trial before The Hague tribunal. That means that a person went into custody without practically a prosecutor having any evidence. Why am I saying this? We now have a situation in our legal system that a public prosecutor can press charges directly. When does this situation take place? The moment the public prosecutor gave precise instructions to the Interior Secretariat, at which circumstances to provide evidence, the facts he needed to prove the existence of a criminal offence and the person who committed the crime. If this is to the extent that the suspicion that someone has committed a crime is so strong, a direct indictment is being brought, the court gives consent and proceedings in which the prosecutor and the opposing party are equal. If the prosecutor and the defence, i.e. the prosecutor and accused are even in court, then they should have full procedural equality. What would that mean, procedural equality? If the D.A. called the N.N.A.'s face, took a statement from him, took a bill against the witness before the court, then for procedural equality, and the defense has the same right to call n.N. a person, to take a statement from him and to clarify some circumstances before he appears before the court. Seems a little funny. If the defendant is in custody, then let the prosecutor and I lock him up next door so we can be even. It's our end-of-the-sconsequence to have the D.A.'s office in prison. I just want to twist the mockery of your view of this procedural equality, which is not seen in your bill of law. Just take it easy, Mr. Minister, enjoy yourself, we have a lot of amendments, so we'll also give you concrete examples of how in practice it will look like any provision of the law. Of course, we didn't want to do a full review of this bill of yours, although there are 380 signed members, and of that 60 and something with a mistake that hasn't been corrected, so there's 100 and something, and that's what Mr. Jojic, since he ran that statistic from member to member, so he knows what's new, what's unsaid, etc. Of course, the representatives of the SRS from this pay phone will also criticise the solution of the witness associates, investigators and these other things, I don't want to go into that part, I want first of all to open this topic in the context of the principle debate. What can you use as an argument in an effort to prove that your bill is a general act that will allow for more effective prosecution. Of course, every normal one is for the effective conduct of criminal prosecution, but it involves, starting with detection, through the security of evidence, to a fair trial, up to the passing of a judicial verdict. This process, as you know, has some sort of time dimension, as long as it can last, because it's probably not a problem when it's found on the spot, finds the perpetrator of a crime, it's a simpler case. It must be complicated in those cases where it's related to financial crime, to economic crime, to banking crime, etc. Especially with that kind of crime that you covered with a special law on the fight against cyber crime last year. Now we have one piece on copyright, so I don't order everything you've done last year as some kind of legal innovation in a legislative sense. You'll probably be one of the reasons why you'll be using it is that in the existing system, the investigative judge has been acting a lot like the statisticians of the D.A. and the police. They rarely disagree with criminal prosecution, and you know it, usually when they hear the defendant, they realize on the record that they have reached a solution to conduct an investigation. Only if the defendant seeks and insists that he be given a solution to conduct an investigation, because he would benefit from the right to appeal, they give it to him. You probably also know if you privately sue someone today for slander or insult, the judge does it to an investigative judge to conduct some investigations, it has become mandatory today. Of course, that's where it all ends up the way someone imagined. I can't tell you right now that you need to stop the abuse of an existing law and give the possibility of an existing law to provide all of its opportunities. If you consider this law to solve all these problems, and yet we do not solve the problem of law abuse, and it lies first and foremost in people, then we make no law. Let's just say, if this bill goes the way you suggested, it means that tomorrow all the prosecutors need to move and be in the Home Office building, that means the day after tomorrow the police law, which was passed. Why? Because probably public security, traffic safety and other administrative affairs and police affairs are heading towards the police, but criminal prosecution will work face-to-face under public prosecutor's command. You already have a problem with the public prosecutor's relationship - the police. You have a problem with the qualification of a piece that gets a prosecutor from the police, you have a variety of problems. Then we'll say, we've passed a new law, people have to go to training, and now you make sure there's a court somewhere. You plan to abolish some courts, although I see you do it very selectively, because it's not a criterion of the number of cases and the number of inhabitants in some territory, but some other criteria, but we'll talk about it another time. Then you come into one situation that there's some dispersion, there's something that can't fit into the general norm. How are you going to frame the prosecutor in Black Grass with the police, or in Bosilegrad, or somewhere else smaller, how? Why did we have the investigation under the jurisdiction of an investigative judge? Just to guarantee the respect of the suspect's human rights. And why is that? Not to bring a solution to an individual as a public prosecutor, who estimates at the time of three days when the police were bringing it in, so the investigative judge checks whether these circumstances exist, so in the context of an investigation, he decides on the detention and everything else. Now it's up to the D.A. Look at one situation. The custody will be decided by the investigative judge. I'm asking a question, you're practically the investigative judge that you need in court just for detention, because of other matters you don't need. You said extremely, to conduct some investigative activities, which are certain they can't be conducted on the main search. An old 80-year-old witness may die, or he's sick, or he's hurt, or some thing that can go down quickly, so there's some kind of investigation that needs to be done. You've devalued the investigating judge. After this, we don't need investigative judges. We need judges on duty in court, or a judge whose phone number will have a prosecutor, so he can call him and say, you know, what, we arrested one, get one solution for determining detention, just to sign it, and nothing else. And you say more protection is the right of suspects. They're still suspects, there's some reasonable doubt, there's some basis to suspect, and you're going to have a situation like that. So the arrest was ordered by an investigative judge, and who's going to conduct the investigation? The D.A.'s office. And where's he gonna take her? I'm in the D.A.'s penitentiary. Under whose command is an investigative prison? The President of the District Court. He controls the rights of the people in custody. That's one weird mess. Mr. Minister, I have an obligation to tell you, there's nothing wrong with the court in Srbobran, and the prosecution may be even worse. "Feroflex" Srbobran is privatised, people are expelled from work, and the new owner is a Djukic, they say cousin Djordja Djukic, the one that will talk today. He even painted the company yellow-blue as much as he loves DS. No one wanted to give, Minister, protection to these people. Another example, Mr. Minister, it's about Sainta, I don't want to read the name of the man, I've received letters from him many times, so I've asked you to get something worked out, to finally get rid of this relational relationship, because the president of the court council is related to one of the participants in the dispute. It was an emergency, because everything possible was broken on the calendar, but nothing happened. They say, we informed the minister, the minister informed the president of the court, the president of the court is asleep. Why am I giving you this? I'm giving this to you because of that second bill of law, that these of you from the Justice Center on these cases are teaching judges and prosecutors that you can't work in a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26307	The word is made by MP Vladimir Homan, authorised representative of G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26308	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the most important law in this set under the 2nd item of the agenda – the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would say it is justified to speak of it even the most today. As far as our judiciary is concerned, the chronic pain of our judiciary is ineffective. One way to cure this pain is to change procedural laws. We have changed the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Executive Procedure, and now we are changing the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendments to the previous two laws have somewhat improved efficiency in their domains. I hope the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. The adoption of a new code, and I can say that I agree with my colleague Obradovic, who said it was justified that a new code was passed, because it would indeed be too much to intervene with the amendments and additions to the text that exists now, had already been necessary to adopt a completely new text. We'll see if it justifies the expectations to speed up the process. As far as the actual newspapers in this Code are concerned, I would firstly like to commend the newspaper which has the right to defend the defendant in full with one specific provision – that the accused must not be forced to testify against himself or to plead guilty, which is in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights. When you look at it like that, it's a wonder it wasn't meant so explicitly so far, as it is now in this code. In addition, he is further improved by prohibiting the use of violence against him, explicitly and clearly specified that the evidence collected in this way from the accused or other persons cannot be considered legally valid and cannot be based on judicial decisions. Another important newspaper was contained in Article 45, where a public prosecutor was given the authority to make a decision on the conduct of the investigation and to carry it out. Old solutions have been retained, but this is indeed one solution which I hope goes further in that direction that the investigative judge and the investigating judge's institute themselves will slowly, when the prosecutions mature and when they are able to fully carry out this work, be held up as an institute that has so far shown that they can lead to a delay in criminal proceedings. In the case of defenders, it is finally pointed out that the defendant may have a defender at any time. However, some restrictive provisions apply to the defender. So it can be excluded from the procedure, it can be fined, and the bar has to be declared, in a large number of cases, on the measures it has taken against the lawyer who, according to the council president's assessment, has violated some of the provisions of the laws. What the bar, in my opinion, can only do, by advertising that way, is to inform the president of the council that she suspended, punished, excluded from the chamber, deleted from the list of lawyers of such a lawyer. I don't know what else that notice could be. It is noticeable that in that part, our procedural legislation has not yet matured to equalise in procedural rights and obligations, especially in the main investigation, the public prosecutor and defenders, although these are parties in the process, and this is evident from the fact that the public prosecutor is not only concerned with the provisions on fines, since it is a public body, etc., but also does not refer to those provisions where it is provided that the President of the Court or the President is greater directly to the senior public prosecutor, in the event that the prosecutor violates any of these provisions of the criminal proceedings, that he is informed of it. We have no obligation whatsoever to inform the President of the Council or the President of the Court directly of Justice of the measures he has taken against the public prosecutor or the person who is changing him, because he has committed some violation of the provisions of this procedure. I think that, at least sending feedback to the court on these measures that have been taken should be in the law. Also, I would like to say that in the case of mandatory defence in Article 71, the list of lawyers who are called to defend by official duty, as foreseen here, that list is the real president of the court or the relevant authorities in the police and the prosecution, and they are obliged only to take into account the list provided by the bar, which, in my opinion, is unacceptable. Because lawyers are known to apply for the so-called so-called bar. Defense on official duty. They're not all lawyers on the bar list, they're just the ones applying for those defenses. So, those who applied for those defenses don't have to mean at all that they're going to get the opportunity to appear in some criminal procedure as defenders in the case of mandatory defence, because, my God, the President of the Court or some other body in the process is putting together a list of their own. It is known that in some cases, particularly serious crimes, there are favored lawyers who are constantly receiving these cases and are constantly able to appear in these cases of mandatory defence in these serious crimes, and some other lawyers never. Also, there is the possibility that, no matter what you've applied to the list, once a year, as some of my colleagues report to me, you'll be called by the court to appear as a defense attorney under official duty, although there are hundreds of cases that pass that way, and who knows who appears in those cases. I think it should be said here, I have one such amendment, that the bar of attorneys draws up that list, and that the president of the court and the others on that list are calling on lawyers to appear as defense attorneys in cases of mandatory defence. It would reduce the possibility of abuse, which clearly exists, and we all know that, as well as the possibility that when someone is detained, you would visit a lawyer's card and say - call him and he'll defend you, because if he defends you, you'd be released from custody for sure, etc. These things exist, and I think we should say it publicly and contain it. As far as other matters are concerned, the important newspaper in the code is also an oath of religious content, although it is also contained and so on. A layman. I don't want to speculate on how this dualism of oaths can be abused by unconscious people, if they're believers or laymen. That's what I'm leaving at your grade. I hope it won't be used that way. As a fan of modern technologies, I was extremely pleased to see that one newspaper in insight and reconstruction is foreseen, in the form of the institute of so-called Institute. Virtual event reconstructions, i.e. the possibility of this action being conducted using computer simulations. As far as the evidence shop and witness associates are concerned, this area is regulated in more detail and quite different from the solutions so far, and also stricter conditions are prescribed for obtaining the property of an associate witness. A significant and major change has also been made in terms of the effect of fulfilling the duties of an associate witness. Namely, he can no longer be released automatically from prosecution, which is good. This new code provides for the possibility of measuring his sentence within the limits of the prescribed law, so that the penalty reduced by one half may be imposed on him on such a measured sentence. However, here we come to another possibility that is envisaged, which is that the court, on a proposal from the public prosecutor, finds the witness co-worker guilty and frees him from punishment. This is Article 163(3). However, the issue is that there is a sentence that cannot be filed on this verdict, which must not be in the law, according to me, especially such a significant code. I asked the amendment to delete that sentence. We'll see what the fate of that amendment will be. It is clear that there is also the possibility to deny, in certain cases, the right to appeal, because there are other ways to protect citizens' rights. However, in one criminal code, I don't think it should be explicitly stated that the appeal of a verdict, any one, or this one, is not allowed. I would like to mention a particularly significant newspaper in the investigation, i.e. A fundamental change that represents that the investigation is now being conducted by a public prosecutor, and an investigative judge can ask him to carry out only certain evidence actions. In this way, I was already at the beginning and said, it is possible to significantly speed up criminal proceedings and make the public prosecutor much more active and to some extent relieve the criminal court. G17 plus really supports this paper. The investigative judge continues to exist as a form of judicial jurisdiction, but with a significantly smaller amount of work in criminal proceedings and would disagree with counterpart Krasic that he is only there to sign the arrest solution. Another significant newspaper in criminal proceedings is the plea agreement. He also serves as an acceleration of criminal proceedings. The defendant and prosecutor can reach the agreement in criminal offences for which the prison sentence is scheduled for up to 10 years. The agreement must be in writing and submitted to the president of the debate council, no later than at the first hearing for the maintenance of the main search. The defendant and the prosecutor agree on the level of punishment and all other sanctions and measures to be imposed on the accused, as well as on the costs of the criminal proceedings and everything else, is one condition that the defendant fully acknowledges the criminal offence that is put on him. In the end, I would also like to mention the newspapers that represent the provisions on the accelerated procedure, because it is a very fast and very simplified form of criminal proceedings in the so-called so-called. The flagrant crimes, and I think time will show that this newspaper, of all those that are listed here, and that exist even more in the very text of the laws, is perhaps the most significant, because I think it will just speed up the criminal procedure and it will show up in the future as the most significant newspaper. All in all, I think there was a need for a new code and the G17 plus essentially considers it a good solution. Vacatio legis was left on June 1st 2007, which is also justified, given these new institutes and the new role of the public prosecutor, and I think enough time has been left behind, and this is just over a year for all authorities to prepare for the application of this code. As for the draft law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants, in short only, we support this law, we will vote for it. Unfortunately, there is a clear need in our judiciary for this law to be passed and that training must be attended by all these persons representing the holders of judicial functions. Training is mandatory, in some cases it is voluntary or vice versa. What we have to say is that in the future we have to, I said yesterday about the strategy on judicial reform, we need to improve the knowledge of students who finish law schools, and we have to fight the so-called private colleges, which uncontrollably betray diplomas of calling graduate lawyers, and who knows what those students are learning there, and really they can't do it that way and with that knowledge they get there to get the name of a graduate lawyer. They do not need additional training, which students who finish the law school of our universities need, but in certain cases they need to learn from the beginning some things that they did not have at all as a subject at their universities, and they have the exact same right for now to appear as candidates for the holders of judicial functions. This should be more restrictively regulated and should not allow such universities to issue these diplomas. Also, let me just point out, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regulating Courts, quite justifiably, and of course we will vote, because it has proved necessary to supplement and amend this law, so I call on the National Assembly to vote for these three laws, and the Minister to look at these amendments that I have proposed and see if it can be adopted, I don't think they are entering the essence of the law, but they are correcting some solutions
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26309	The word has been given by MP George Mamula, as an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26310	Anyone who wants to meet a country in a relatively short time should buy a law on criminal proceedings in that country, not a constitution, in the first bookstore. Because the true state of human freedom and rights can be seen in criminal proceedings, not in the constitution. This bill of criminal proceedings, which we are discussing today, is a modern proposal for criminal proceedings, which is in line with the modern science of criminal proceedings and the modern criminal procedure. In my opinion, this proposal is at least 15 years late, as the 1992 Serbian Constitution and the 1992 SRJ Constitution gave solid grounds for changing the criminal procedure. These two constitutions are a break-up with police elements in a criminal procedure, which we had until then, according to the 1976 Criminal Procedure Act. Both the 1990 SRJ constitution and the 1990 Serbian Constitution also served as a good basis for the law on criminal proceedings, which was based on these constitutions and adopted in 2001. However, the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure is incomplete. That's where the reforms started, as if halfway stopped. There are a number of unfinished solutions and it is as if the first reform has stalled in its attempt. This proposal that we are discussing today is a proposal that starts a new era in criminal proceedings. This is a pretext for criminal proceedings. We haven't had a more serious change in the last 50 years. It should be said that when it comes to criminal proceedings in 1967, a novel of the Criminal Procedure Act, which was indeed a huge step forward and represents a major liberalisation in criminal proceedings, and then indeed the position of the defendant, his defender, was, in particular, very liberal at the stage of the investigation. But not even six months have passed, objections have begun to come to the prosecutor's office and police proposal, so he suffered serious changes in 1970 and 1973. And then it was passed the 1976 Code of Criminal Procedure, which occurred in the time that preceded it, which had earthquakes in the former Yugoslavia. It is the result of a mass movement in Croatia, a riot in Kosovo in 1968, constitutional amendments from 1971 and the 1974 Constitution. The state reason that was clearly pointed out in this Code of Criminal Procedure was primarily to defend the order, only then to fight crime. This proposal, as it is addressed, is actually a completely new sociology of criminal proceedings and a completely new political sociology in criminal proceedings. It is not original and it is good that the authors of the proposal were deprived of any claim to originality and respected modern solutions, which have shown themselves in countries that apply them as very good. Namely, these solutions we have in this proposal in the European procedure are about 20-25 years old and they come to light after the fall of Frank's regime in Spain, Salazar's in Portugal, after the fall of the colonel's regime in Greece, in Italy after the murder of Aldo Morra, in Germany after the liquidation of the Bader-Maynhof group, in Belgium after the control of the terrorist organisation First Line and Direct Action, in Italy "Red Brigades", in Britain "Irish Republican Army". At that time, they were, according to their methods in the police procedure, real police states and decided that these methods used by the police to obtain proof value must be obtained process form. So, both the witness-coworker, and the undercover investigator were something of a police tradition, and while they existed only as police methods no evidence force had in the criminal proceedings of Western European states. Then it was decided that the police tactics would get a procedural form so they could have proof power, because without it it couldn't have had any significance. I'll talk about it later. What is now a fundamental change is a prosecutor's investigation. I think it's about time the prosecutor started applying those powers that he has under the D.A.'s Law and that we really get a prosecutor's investigation, because the practitioners know very well that the investigative judge has always agreed with the request to conduct an investigation filed by the prosecutor. The disagreements were very rare, the role of the prosecutor was very passive, practically the whole procedure in the last 30 years, 40 years was about the police finishing their case, then the judicial investigation was a review of the police, and the main review of the court's investigation. What was missed in the first stage could not be made up later. Now the prosecutor is getting a really active role, and it's very good that the criminal proceedings begin when the first actions are taken, it's called a previous investigation against the suspect. It is then that the criminal proceedings are in place and it is, formally, really good that it is proposed in the law that the criminal proceedings begin then, and that the investigation starts when the suspect is discovered and a solution is made to carry out the investigation that, according to this proposal, the prosecutor brings. So he's running an investigation and he's making a solution to the investigation. He has a really big responsibility and he has to be very active. On the other hand, this confirms that the prosecutor is part of the executive and that the party is in the process, because he always represents the state. Therefore, he cannot be part of the judicial authority. The court decides, the judicial authority is, we know from Monteskie, how defined in the division of power. Therefore, the prosecutor is party to the dispute and must do so in order to protect the state's interest, and this law gives him the opportunity to the fullest extent. Of course, it will require that prosecutors prepare themselves well, because so far the procedures have allowed them to have a passive relationship, to have the police finish or not finish the job, that they refuse to proceed and to trial most of the time and that the main burden falls to court. So this is a very good solution, and it's a good thing that balance is made between the position of the defendant, the prosecutor and the court, because the defendant is now truly the subject of the procedure. In 76, we had the Code of Criminal Procedure under which the object of proceedings was accused, in the 1976 procedure, he was accused of unwittingly co-operated with the court on his own conviction, being in a position to testify against himself. The code allowed the use of illegal evidence, the 1976 law allowed illegal evidence to be bridged and bridged. He also had some unconditional formulations, so then in the investigation the role of defenders was very suppressed, the rights of the defendant very narrowed down and he was the object of the proceedings. Today, the defendant, since 2001, has been fully subject to this proposal, so it is clear why the prosecutor has such powers and why the police have such powers. I even think that the defendant is better protected and that in some segments of the law he should have given the police greater authority, because he is being blamed here in a position to be as small a source of data as possible and to collect evidence on the other side, which will require much more work from the police, even more technical equipment, from prosecutors very well-knowledge of the matter of the fight against crime, very good knowledge of life and different areas. It is good that in the basic principles, what is said to the basic rules is a fair trial of one of the fundamentals of the procedure. So, not just the old principle of giving the guilty the rightful punishment, and no innocent being convicted, but to ensure a fair trial. In addition, I think it's a good thing that some pretty big fines have been provided for those who question the principles of the procedure, actually for those who interfere with justice. So we are already facing the fact that we have lists in which journalists conduct their investigations, conduct their own proceedings, and I think there are lists that follow some proceedings and represent the lawsuit more than the state's prosecutor, and yet we have lists where some journalists defend the defendants more than their defenders, and they do it quite unpunishedly, so I think it would be high time to provide for such a high sentence. Those who have been punished so far will be punished and in the future, those who have not been punished for breaking these rules will not be punished. But it's very good that this is resolved in this way, not by amending the Criminal Code, so let's say we have a crime of obstruction of justice, so that the procedure is conducted, so that it determines who interfered with justice by proposing that the case should be ruled out, what evidence should be carried out and so on. As far as the right of a person of deprived liberty is concerned, I think it should have been said, when it comes to the right to use language, that that person may have the right to use a language he understands, if possible under the circumstances of arrest. So this is what I think is prescribed from some convention and it's kind of like a professorial attitude, but in reality, things don't stand that way. So, first of all, the number of languages is very large, the circumstances of arrests can be such that a person who deprives freedom often cannot speak, so it should have added here, if possible, if there are circumstances that he can speak in his language, a language that understands. I think it's crucial to amend the provisions of the witness-co-worker, since the solution so far has been extremely unrealistic. Namely, it has been said that if the prosecutor assesses, or later, the court, that there are extenuating circumstances on the part of the co-worker's witness. Facilitating circumstances are priced at the end of the procedure, not at the beginning, so this formulation in the current 2001 Criminal Procedure Act, with several changes, is quite careless. That's why I think it's a better solution for the D.A. to appreciate the integrity of the investigation, when we already have a prosecutor's investigation. When criminal proceedings begin by taking action against the suspect and investigating when a solution is made to conduct an investigation, then it is very important that the prosecutor appreciates the integrity, the purpose, whether anyone can really be an associate witness. There are good provisions on the undercover investigator, as well as on the use of technical capabilities in listening, monitoring, observation, controlled delivery, virtual reconstruction, etc., these are contemporary techniques, so there are really no objections. I think that, when it comes to the powers of the police, the legislator made sure that at the moment they had those powers in view of the available technique they could use and that the proposer was in charge of the principle that many would not wear their heads on their shoulders if the police were doing everything in gloves, so I think that there was a good balance, although in this respect police could be given greater powers. As far as the legal search is concerned, I think that some of the solutions that correspond to this moment have been detained, namely that all the defendants, other than the defendant, must leave the trial and cannot attend the hearing of the defendant and the later. There may have been a need to make sure that, upon returning to the courtroom, they were immediately informed of the course of the proceedings and what anyone had said about them, and not later, as the basic rule is that the defendant should be left with sufficient opportunities to prepare the defence. I also think that part of the main investigation, if a criminal offence occurs, should have been allowed to object to the indictment, since according to the procedure, the defendant has the right to defend himself throughout the proceedings. There are several amendments that have been submitted to improve this law, so I hope that some of them will be adopted and improved this process, and I therefore propose that this bill of criminal procedure be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26311	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26312	I'll say, one remark brought by Ms. Nestorovic to article 46 is accepted, that it be an initiation of proceedings, and as far as the complaint for the investigating judge is concerned, we have left the combined system, that the investigative judge is the one who controls the protection of fundamental human rights, of detention, of entering the apartment and other things. I must point out that the appeal to Article 5 could be given specifically because it says that the fifth standard says - the court must be independent. An independent judge is the one who creates a picture of his independence, even with the defendant. And the basic observation was that if an investigative judge conducts an investigation and collects evidence, then you come into a situation where the image of independence is lost, the court collects evidence against me at the same time and judges me. That is why insistence on the Convention and the Court's decisions in Strasbourg that it should be divided completely and in most European legislation is dominated by just such an approach that the full investigation is being conducted by prosecutors. We've left certain influences of the court to protect in one transition period, when you don't have long-term practice and experience, to have some abuses. That's how we wanted to protect against abuse. The other thing I wanted to point out is, you all know, and that's exactly what Ambassador Mamula said. The prosecutor is a party in the process and part of the executive authority you trust with prosecution. It's what Europe definitely accepts, and for Anglo-Saxon we don't have to talk about. You know how it starts, the state against that and that citizen. Therefore, it is quite clear and it should have been separated. There are always interests and the Strasbourg Court protects citizens' interests, there is no dispute, and there is no protection of individual human rights. However, when you have situations, and I'm going to give you a very important example that will have meaning for us, which is so-called. Laws on the confiscation of property in civil matters suspected of being acquired in an illicit manner. A large number of countries pass these laws and I can tell you that retroactive action is allowed, in violation of even the principle of presummation of individual innocence. So they say, if there's any doubt that you've obtained it in a certain way, I'm confiscating your property, go ahead and prove that you've acquired it legally. This has proved to be the best fight against the corruption and confiscation of illegally acquired assets, starting with England, Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany is now going, and Austria and Switzerland are preparing. This has been done and the Strasbourg Court has taken a certain position and said, when it comes to the violation of the vital interests of the state and of all citizens, it has priority over individual rights of the individual. You should always take care of some things that can be extremely important. That's why I'm saying, when the Convention was quoted, it was supposed to read everything, including all six standards that make the court independent and create a picture of an independent court.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26313	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a word with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS. I give the word to the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26314	Mr Stojkovic, the Honorable Minister, what you have completed, this conversion, gives the belief that the state wants to send a message that crime is not being paid in any form, and if by adopting these laws, and we will vote for these laws, in any way move what is happening today in Serbia, we have done a good deed. Everyone needs to understand that crime doesn't pay off, that crime doesn't pay off, that everyone has to believe that the state can't lose against thieves, secikes, cheddars and all the others who, knowingly, sometimes unconsciously, commit crimes and serious crimes that everyone suffers from. However it may seem to anyone at this point, I am convinced that even what you said at the end, I like it very much. I also expect the finance minister to do what he promised to do, I'm talking about synthetic taxes, to add up some money and some property, so let's prove how they got, if they didn't pay their taxes, to see how they earned it. As someone drives a car of 50,000 euros and has no day of work, he has not played bingo, his aunt in Michigan has not died, none of it has happened, and his property is hundreds or millions of euros. So, everything that goes towards us removing these dilemmas and that Serbian citizens can believe that there are assumptions that they can be convinced that only diligence and fair work will have the right purpose of what we are doing here today, and in that sense, with what Mr. Zarko Obradovic, the authorised representative of the SPS said about these laws, we will vote, because we believe that this is one of the ways that individuals, and thus Serbia's state as a whole, will be better. As far as the D.A.'s office and the D.A.'s office is concerned, I'm glad to finally make that clear once, because things are getting in the way. It's very important to say that in the past, the government has directly appointed prosecutors. We know what implications that had. If this is going to contribute, and I believe it will, that everyone does their job in a more efficient way than before, in a verifiable way, then we have a chance to get into serious societies and serious states. You, Mr. Stojkovic, Mr. Minister, have a chance because, based on what we know, Serbian citizens believe in what you're doing. You therefore have a great responsibility to fix everything that is possible in this area, and we will help to vote it out and to make Serbia the state where we want to live and live in honesty, and in which all these calculators I have been talking about will understand that they are dealing with a serious state and that they are dealing with people who are determined not to allow crime to be an economic activity in Serbia. In that sense, we support what you're proposing here. He can always do better and he can do more. Various visions of different political groups are different. In any case, we also want judges and prosecutors to be respected by gentlemen, both individuals and professionals, and to take off their hats when they greet the citizens in the parade. Then we'll make sure they do their job right, and that should mean we did our job right here. I don't want to talk about it anymore. There will be no abuse. I'm taking the opportunity, today is May 9th, today is the day when one great evil in the world is defeated. A great contribution to victory over this evil has given a huge number of people in our country, in our former country, in the present country. I would like to say, with great piety and respect, that 821,000 fighters of New Yugoslavia and the Partisan troops deployed in 37 divisions were on the side of those who defeated Fascism on 9 May. To all who have participated in this struggle I sincerely congratulate and give recognition to those who have fallen heroicly in this struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26315	The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mark Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I will talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, by firstly asking Minister Stojkovic if he has a translation of the criminal laws of continental law or of Anglo-Saxon, so that MPs can prepare themselves for the discussion, on the other hand, to check the new solutions allegedly offered in this law. Namely, I don't know if, Mr. Minister, you have translations of these countries, but in that I would like to tell you that these are not the new modern solutions that are being offered. I will inform you that in 1999 and 2000, the SRS worked on the translation and study of U.S. Criminal Procedure Codes, the Great Kingdom of Great Britain, Wales and Ireland, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland and Italy. When I was a federal minister and when the SRS decided that criminal procedural legislation should be harmonised with the constitution, because we had, it is true that colleagues carried out, in the previous period of 1976 and earlier, that some of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure were unacceptable for the ordinary right and opportunity on the continent on which the former SFRJ was located, and also the SRJ. I'll tell you that back then, as federal minister on behalf of the SRS, because we agreed to coordinate, to prevent the abuses that occurred often by some authorities that applied repression. I have translations of these countries that I have listed, from which we have drawn the best solutions, adapting them to our conditions and political opportunities. That's what we've covered, I said, both the same rights that are now mentioned in the bill. It's a good thing you 346 members, as far as I've analyzed, have accepted from our existing Code of Criminal Procedure, which Serbian radicals did in 2000. It's a good thing you accepted. It's overwritten. There's half-prescription somewhere around 116 and there's new ones somewhere around 80 and some members. The newspapers introduced in the new criminal code are the following, which we have objections to. In addition to a number of modifications to the existing provisions of the Code, more unsuccessful, which we will show in the amendments than successful, the proposal provides for a number of really new provisions that we have not had in the current code. Among them, special attention deserves provisions on the new organisation of the previous procedure and on the procedural protection of witnesses. New arrangements for the investigation and so on. The previous investigation is the largest newspaper proposed is the transition to the new type of previous, i.e. the investigation procedure. In the process of adopting a new Code of Criminal Procedure for this very serious enterprise, the necessary conditions have not yet been met, according to the SRS. In the process of building a rule of law on yet unstable political occasions, with still unreformed public prosecutors and police, whose organisation is still based on ideological criteria, an investigative judge, although technically unarmed and less efficient, is a more secure authority to conduct an investigation and an incomparably better protector of human freedoms and rights than any other executive authority. We still have political opportunities that are unstable. Human rights are internationalised, especially after the ratification of the European Convention on their Protection, so there is a legitimate concern that executive-government authorities could often abuse powers if they were given this bill. Our country has agreed that the decisions of its authorities are subject to the control of the European Court of Human Rights, which was the basic reason for the introduction of an investigative judge. Under the conditions of external international control, all state authorities are obliged to be equally careful and careful towards every citizen and human rights. Nevertheless, the new criminal investigation organisation should not be approached hastily before the question of whether the change has really come. In particular, it is necessary to objectively determine whether all the necessary conditions are created for such a transformation of criminal-processing law, not only politically, but also for the organisation of state services to accept the investigation, in particular whether the public prosecutor's office is organised, staffed and technically prepared for such a large undertaking. Of course, the question is whether this bill has prepared a normative basis for moving to a new model of criminal investigation, sufficiently studied, acceptable and adequate. As regards the proposed models, the investigation process consists of two interrelated stages, previous investigations and the investigation itself. A previous investigation is conducted when there are grounds for doubting that a criminal offence has been committed and while the perpetrator is not yet known, it takes evidence actions, but others, for example, detention under Article 265. A bill of laws, but which have a force of proof. In further criminal proceedings, i.e. a court ruling, Article 258, Article 260, Article 261(1), as regards Article 257(2), may be based on their results. And secondly, these actions are taken under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as a rule by the public prosecutor, who can entrust their conduct to the internal affairs authorities. Certain evidence actions in the previous investigation are carried out by internal affairs authorities on their own, temporary confiscation and search of the apartment - Article 255 paragraph 8, and may, under certain conditions, carry out and perceive and determine skills that do not suffer delays, as provided for in Article 255 paragraph 10. The investigation is carried out by a competent public prosecutor on its own, but an investigative judge has been authorised to propose, on a proposal or a request from the public prosecutor, to issue a search warrant for temporary confiscation of matters and orders for the autopsy and exhumation of the body. The provisions of the proposal show that evidence actions are taken in the investigation, the hearing of the defendant, the insight, the hearing of the experts, the search of the apartment, the hearing of witnesses, as provided for in Article 278, but it does not say anywhere whether these actions have the power of evidence only in the investigation or in the main search, or in the contradictory procedure. It's probably supposed to be, a team before the power of evidence in the follow-up process has evidence from the previous investigation. In addition to giving orders on the search of the person's apartment, the temporary confiscation of matters, the autopsy and exhumation of corpses and the decision to determine detention, the investigative judge decides on a complaint against a solution to the investigation on a proposal from the public prosecutor, imposes disciplinary penalties on certain participants of the investigation and takes evidence actions that could not be taken during the search. It shall also carry out other evidence actions on a proposal from the public prosecutor and other authorised prosecutors, and the injured as a prosecutor may only require him to carry out certain actions prior to the prosecution, as provided for in Article 270(2) of Article 284(2). It's a bill of law. The provisions of the proposal for a previous investigation and investigation could be difficult to assess by a satisfactory assessment. They have a series of essential and legal technical deficiencies. I'll just give you some examples. Under a): the actions of the previous investigation should essentially be informal police reconnaissances, which is why this stage of the procedure is better called a reconnaissance than a previous investigation, as is the case in some European rights countries. Taking these actions should not even be regulated in the criminal code, because it has already been governed by the Police Act. Those actions shall be taken, as referred to in Article 255(1) of this proposal, under the official duty of the internal affairs authority, but it should also be provided for those authorities to take over at the request of the public prosecutor, who are required to carry out their duties. The previous investigation shall not be opened by any formal act, against which decisions would be taken by the person to whom the proceedings are being conducted, have the opportunity to use a legal remedy and therefore it must not be any legal consequence for that person, and even less hearings of witnesses and suspects from that stage of the proceedings may be treated as formal procedural actions, and even with evidence of force in the future proceedings. There is no real need for this hearing, because immediately behind this informal procedure is a formal investigation, in which all this can be done on a regular basis. In these preliminary reconnaissances, it is sufficient to collect information and take other police actions aimed at detecting the perpetrator of a criminal offence, and the person to whom this procedure is being conducted does not need to know. The hearing of witnesses and suspects, except by a public prosecutor for the needs of a decision to open an investigation, is absolutely out of the question, according to the SRS. There is no need in the new model of the previous procedure to rephrase today's pre-crisis procedure and make it more formal than it is now. The only thing would be allowed to hire an investigative judge to take those evidence actions that could not be later taken. It is not clear what is understood in the proposal for this law under the concept of criminal proceedings and when it begins. The concepts of a new criminal procedure structure are quite confusing in this proposal, unlike the previous pre-criminal procedure, which has persistently and for a reason denied any criminal-processing property, it appears that the previous investigation would now be counted in criminal proceedings, which is very problematicly provided for in Article 22(10) of the Code proposal. However, by adopting a new criminal investigation organisation, even an investigation would no longer be part of the court's criminal proceedings. The criminal proceedings would consist of a judicial investigation and a judicial main criminal case. On a normative basis, this would have two major consequences. First, the provisions of the Code should provide safe protection for human rights and judicial investigations. Second, to provide a court ruling based on evidence carried out in the criminal proceedings, so-called contradictory. Actions and measures of the previous procedure cannot be left to administrative law and administrative authorities, but only if they separate themselves from the decision on freedoms and rights of citizens, and only then can we talk about what is only a court in the rule of law, which is the case with us and so far. Therefore, any judicial investigation must be split into two - the authorities of the administration can only be trusted to take investigative actions in an operational sense, and the court must be left to approve and control the application of the coercion necessary to take those actions. This is the first and most important function of the investigating judge, as it is called in the proposal, which can be called otherwise, such as the judge for the previous proceedings, or the judge for previous hearings, as resolved in some law on criminal proceedings under comparative law. In addition, the investigative judge in the preliminary court proceedings and when it is necessary to take procedural actions which could not be repeated in the court's investigation and which are important for the establishment of a court ruling. The proposal, however, gives the investigating judge two more functions. In some cases, it should also be the authority to impose disciplinary penalties and the authority to take complete investigative actions, and in an operational sense, whose implementation requires an authorised prosecutor, i.e. damaged as a prosecutor and even a public prosecutor, as provided for in Article 270(2) and Article 284(2). Proposal for a Code. These provisions of the proposal call into question the whole idea of moving on to a new model of investigation, because if an investigative judge is to conduct a number of investigations, which would still not lead them all. The problem could be solved by making the investigation completely, not only partially, into the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor, which would become impossible by introducing another form of control, which should ensure that the public prosecutor does not violate the principle of lawfulness of prosecution, instead of today's subsidiary lawsuit. A fair criminal case implies a trial of a factual state and the application of law by an independent and impartial court. That's why no part of the trial can be entrusted to other organs, non-judicial authorities. However, this would happen if, according to the court, the application of the law in its judgment was based on evidence provided by other authorities. That's what's very dangerous and very problematic. This is the reason why the evidence taken in the previous procedure cannot be compared with those taken in the main search. As a result, the procedural principle of directness in criminal proceedings, in which the investigation is no longer a judicial action, must be fully expressed, with far fewer exceptions than there are now. When the investigation is a court case, the court may also rely on evidence carried out in the investigation, in the end and in the extreme need, because of the court's conclusion that it could be used. When the investigation becomes an activity of the administrative authorities - police and prosecutors, it is no longer possible, as it would turn out that judicial proceedings are not decided by the judiciary, but by the executive authority. In that regard, the provisions of Article 337. Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 362. The proposal should be processed in detail. It could possibly be read during the search only that statement brought before the judge earlier, hearings in an investigation that has been conducted by the judge due to urgency, hearings conducted prior to the delay of the search and so on, not hearings conducted by a public prosecutor or police in the investigation or prior to the investigation. On the contrary, gentlemen of Parliament, according to the proposal, the principle of the directness of the trial would be almost completely destroyed. The effects of the change in the investigation model were not taken into account. In addition, the amendments to Article 352(1) testify. The Code of Criminal Procedure. Under the existing provision, the court based its verdict on evidence carried out in the main search. That's what's now in our modern, sophisticated and harmonised code. It is added in the new one: "or are contained in the records, or other materials which, in accordance with this Code, have been read on the main search (no, in such cases, it is difficult to base any decision), i.e. in an appropriate manner, Article 376(1). It's a bill of law. The supplement is really dangerous. The court would once again become a transmission for verdicts based on evidence prepared by the police. The proposal is a crown principle of directness both in many other places and in many other ways. Exception provided for in Article 330(4) The Code of Criminal Procedure - that the council may decide to read their findings and opinions instead of inviting experts or authorities entrusted with the art, in some cases. He's planning to be extended to all the witches. Very dangerous, very problematic, very insecure, very unreliable. It's dangerous for someone's unprofessional, unprofessional finding to have one court decision to go to five, ten, fifteen, twenty years in prison, as provided for in Article 355(6). Proposal. That's how they rarely appear before a court of law. These provisions call into question the proposal for this Code and from the point of view of compliance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in particular with the provisions on the right to a fair trial. In addition, this right implies that the accused is allowed to investigate witnesses of the indictment or to achieve that they are being questioned and to ensure the presence and hearing of defence witnesses under the same conditions as those who testify against him. Imagine, a witness you don't see is being heard, a court ruling is being established on false testimony. It's dangerous. It wasn't even in Hamurabi's code, Dusan's code, code 12 tables, these don't know modern laws. This provision of the Convention provides for the right of the accused to appear in a literal sense and to face the witness and the expert before the court and to have the testimony directly, i.e. that witnesses will be questioned in any case. Are we invoking rules on the conduct of the UN tribunal's criminal proceedings? Ambassador Krasic drew attention to the opening statement and was right. If you take the Statute and the UN tribunal's rules, many provisions are similar, prescribed and minors comply with these rules. This looks like it to me. Our code does not provide that fully now, so, contrary to what is proposed in the proposal, the question of abolishing and those exceptions to the principle of directness, which are now provided for in Article 377 of the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure and which enable the main search to read the record of testimony of witnesses and findings of the experts given in the investigation. Reading the record of earlier hearings should be reduced to the minimum possible extent, i.e. Only when a witness, due to death or other reasons of absolute prevention, cannot be heard in the main search. By retaining, or even expanding, the rule of giving testimony of a witness or an expert on the main search and giving their statements at some earlier hearings, which are read only, have the same legal force, the code comes at risk of coming into open conflict with the said Charter and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The provisions of the proposal for an investigation also have a number of legal-technical deficiencies. Thus, as regards the systemics of the provisions on the conduct of the investigation, the confidence of evidence actions in the course of the investigation and the authority of the investigating judge, Articles 270 to 272. The proposal was made prior to the provisions on a solution to the conduct of the investigation. Instead of being the other way around, it's different here, as Article 273 of Article 3 to Article 5 provides, so it turns out that the investigation is being conducted first, and then it opens. What kind of logic is that? What kind of legal technique is that? So far, it has not been known in any regulation, especially when it comes to material procedural law, which must be in accordance with the Constitution. The Code of Criminal Procedure must be the second law after the Constitution, because the law on criminal proceedings as it is, so is democracy in one country. In doing so, the provisions on opening an investigation were without any excuse found in the extremely long Article 273, consisting of ten views, one third of which refers to one entirely other and previous issue - the public prosecutor's proceedings on criminal charges, while the provisions on the appeal against the resolutions on the conduct of the investigation are exposed and separated in Article 275, etc. Legal and technical deficiencies can be seen if, for example, Article 273(1), which consists of several dispositions combined into a ten-line bulk sentence, can be read. The justification for the adoption of a new code could be found in otherwise few proposals that are really new to existing solutions. Provisions on the hearing of sensitive witnesses and on the procedural protection of endangered witnesses, on the accelerated procedure and on the procedure of intervention in this investigation procedure, provided that the most optimal values of possible solutions have been chosen. The proposal for this Code, however, contains a large number of completely wrong solutions, much worse than existing ones, as well as changes and additions that are completely indifferent from the aspect of improving positive criminal legislation i.e. which have no essential value whatsoever. This job seems to have been approached without a clear plan, i.e. with the wrong work plan. Write a new Code of Criminal Procedure, it was impossible to achieve this in the short time for which this huge job was to be done, without any previous preparations, without analysis of court practice, with modest personnel involved in the work, etc. These kinds of jobs in this area can't be done that way. They have been regular for decades and have been engaged in their realisation by teams of experts, even entire institutes, as the SRS did in 2000, when it hired the Institute of Comparative Rights to copy all legislation from countries, I listed it as the United States, the Great Kingdom, France, Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy, etc., which are well provided with the necessary analyses, particularly data on permanent court practice and comparative law. Despite much greater ambition, which was initially publicly announced, writing a new Code of Criminal Procedure, this bill essentially contains only material for the law on amendments and additions to the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. It provides a number of ideas for changes and additions of existing procedural provisions, unequal values, scattered throughout the text of the applicable code, many of which are completely unnecessary, and most of them are completely wrong. It seems that many proposals have been made only to increase the number of interventions and thus create an illusion of a new code. So for example, let me remind you, here's what innovation looks like to you. The words "with a goal" are replaced by the words "whose goal is". What kind of innovation is that? Not at all. The words "no delays" are replaced by the words "no unnecessary delays". Any innovations? There isn't. "Proverbation" means "proved action." Say "only for that reason" in "only for that". The words "application retains the execution of the sentence" in the words "the filed request retains the execution of the sentence". Is there any innovation here? There isn't. Is there any legal logic? There isn't. Is there anything that will advance the bill? There isn't. Will it be better applied in practice by judges and prosecutors and implementing authorities? He won't. Or, let's say, another one of these failed findings and definitions. The words "public figures" are now being replaced by the words "public life figures". Is that necessary? What's fundamentally changing? It doesn't change anything. It doesn't affect making a fair decision. It doesn't affect. Legally, it has nothing to do with anything. Language has no improvement whatsoever. A large number of regulations and without any great need are subject to changes that are often contradictory among themselves. What's worse, they're threatening to break the whole of the law. Some of the provisions are just language-processed. As a rule, no greater success. It could be said that this job represented a waste of time and was at the border of petty and fissure. This should be added that many provisions and many chapters of the current code have been taken over without any changes, about what I said at the outset. Therefore, provisions of 346 members have been prescribed: a section of the jurisdiction of the courts, of the exemption, of the public prosecutor, of the damaged and private prosecutor, of decision making and disclosure, of the written submission, of the examination of the file, of submissions and of the records, of the deadlines, of the execution of decisions, of the costs of criminal proceedings, of the property and of the legal claim, etc. Even when there was some change in them. So, for example. it is said - to ask the question why the provision of Article 6(1) has not been amended. The Code of Criminal Procedure when it comes to warlocks, and the artisan is in our cancer-cancer code. I will list several examples from which it will be possible to determine whether the code is really new or only in detail amended, and whether these changes contribute to increasing its quality. The first example refers to the art class, which represents the cancer wound of the modern criminal procedure. If any change in the Code of Criminal Procedure was necessary, it had to follow in the area. What is really new in these 19 members of the current code and are the designed newspapers justified? In my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, this is absolutely not necessary. First, several new provisions were introduced. Two of them represent the addition of the existing Article 114, paragraphs 5 and 6. In the new article 127. The proposal significantly restricts the possibility of entrusting skills to foreign experts and professional institutions, only exceptionally and only when domestic experts do not exist, only after the approval of the President of the Supreme Court. There's no reason for it to be different in the field of art. There are no such restrictions in EU member states. The paper is also a provision of Article 142(3) supplementing the existing Article 130 of the applicable Code. This supplement was unnecessary because the appeal was not introduced by that provision, as it is incorrectly stated in the explanation of that amendment, since it has existed so far under the general provisions of Article 398. The law. The appeal against the first-degree settlement was unduly left out by Article 122, probably because it was thought to be an excessive provision of Articles 123 and 130. It's a bill of law. The matter, however, does not stand because one provision of the existing code in Article 122 refers to the finding, and the other in Article 123 refers to the opinion of the expert. The fact that fines for the failure to perform are increased from 100,000 to 300,000, or 500,000 even to the entire three million dinars, does not constitute any fundamental change, nor does any substantial progress. Also, ladies and gentlemen, even if it were more accurate to talk about death than extinction, Article 139. The bill's proposal, we don't think the change deserves attention, and it wasn't necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I will reduce my exposure to this occasion, and we Serbian radicals will also be called to international legal acts, and on the other hand we have submitted one number of amendments. We expect to have opportunities to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26317	Thank you, Mr. Jojic, for taking care of the weather, so in that sense, I am obliged to inform all of you who are taking part in the debate and preparing for the next debate. On the basis of Article 85(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today's session will be held, we will work (I know, Mr Krasic, that Tuesday and you have the written justification that I have given you), but independently of that, because of the other MPs, we will only work until the end of the united principle debate that is under way. So for clarifications, those who are not present right now, if we finish up to two to two, to five to five, to ten to ten. This means that certainly the beginning of a united debate on the 5th and 6th points, that is what is important for MPs who are preparing to take part in the debate, will be tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you for understanding. Here you go. After Mr. Krstin, Verica Radet, Jovan Palalić and Dragutin Peric. That's the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are considering three draft laws tabled by the Government, a draft law on criminal proceedings, a bill on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants, and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Regulating Courts. I'm going to do something about these other two laws, because it's about shorter legal texts, and it doesn't deserve any broader design, because it's about simpler legal solutions that are clearer to the public and to the citizens. The draft law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputies, judge and prosecutor's assistants is a document that is necessary to raise the level of professionalism of workers, i.e. the holders of functions in the judiciary, and this is also indicated by yesterday's debate that we really had here in detail and in controversial terms regarding the proposed strategy of the judiciary. And based on this strategy and what we as MPs of course know, the situation in the judiciary is not such that we can be fully satisfied with it. He needs to be fixed. One of the repair measures is this professional training of judges, prosecutors and assistants working in courts and prosecutors. That is necessary, and I would especially like to point out that a good solution to this law is that this education is permanent and mandatory in certain cases, although there are objections to this element of obligation, but I think it is very good and that neither our judges nor prosecutors will object to perfecting their knowledge. After all, they will be left with special time for such a thing and, of course, on the basis of that time, they will be able to raise their professional abilities. In addition to the proposal for this law, I believe that there is also a need to work on the Law on the Judicial Examining, on the programme under which it is based, and on committees to which it is subject and on the criteria under which that judicial examination is passed. We may not have talked about it enough. Just for a little while. So I believe that this law should also be amended, that the programmes under which the judicial exams are conducted were long overdue and I believe that the committee in which they are today does not adequately reflect the quality and expertise of the interrogators in the exam. So, I think we need to review the composition of committees, that we need to review the programme and, of course, establish and tighten the criteria for passing judicial exams. I think a lot of us colleagues here have faced not only judges, prosecutors, young colleagues, but a lot of lawyers who, in my opinion, don't meet the conditions of someone who passed the bar exam. So I suggest you do something like that. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, it is a matter of changing jurisdiction in essence, by returning certain powers which have been taken by law to the district or higher courts, as foreseen by the strategy, and passed on to the appeal, now from the appeals, which have not begun to function, to several courts. I think that shows that the problem of changing jurisdiction has not been carefully considered. I suggest that our Ministry of Justice reconsider it, that before we enter into force, we change, or appeal courts from January next year, we have a clear picture of whether we really need to have appeals courts as planned and whether there are objective conditions for them to function. I think that such an examination should be done as soon as possible, we don't have the time anymore, we have delayed the application of this law and just the amendment of this law shows that it's overly ambitious and without enough thought by the previous Government and the Assembly to transfer the second-degree jurisdiction to appeals courts. As regards the Code of Criminal Procedure, I can express particular satisfaction that all of us here are attending a truly professional, academic debate, which shows that indeed in this House there are people who are capable and trained to discuss the most complex issues such as criminal law here with a lot of competence and a lot of respect for colleagues who may have different expert opinions. It is really hard to talk after counterpart Mamula, after counterpart Jojic or after Minister Stojkovic. I will take this opportunity to supplement what they have said and to practically subscribe my opinion on certain problems so that later on the amendment or in the discussion of particulars, it is agreed that this is the best-looking and that it can be applied in the best way possible. The apparitions were a lot of useful ones. I think it's very good for us to codify procedural law, I think it's a very good way to go, and the government is headed by the Ministry of Justice, to upgrade on the basis of the old one. I think it was never good when we completely denied what was before, I think it's very good to respect what is the legal tradition of this country. It's really big, it's not measured by dozens but by hundreds of years. So, this legal tradition has made it hard for us to stick to it and, of course, apply some solutions that are better than any other country's right, which is because of our integrity, has proved to be better solutions, not because of something else, and of course to bring our legislation into line with those international acts that we have adopted and ratified. This law really creates a normative environment in order to make the criminal proceedings faster and more effective, although I can truly express my opinion that there were conditions for any other provisions to be changed, if the procedure was even faster and even more effective. I think that this principle of ensuring consistent protection with the Constitution and international acts of guaranteed human rights and freedoms is also being realized, and I think that there is sufficient compliance with other laws, with the Criminal Code and other laws that we have passed. This surrounds the system of criminal law, which is a great credit to the government and this assembly, that we have passed all the laws and that we have created the conditions for the judiciary to function in one optimal way in these conditions. So there's a good balance between the solutions we've checked and the new solutions that are looking for a new time that we're in. Some of these new solutions have been in practice, but they've been incorporated into this law and they've been checked, so they're not really new. As a lawyer and as a practitioner, I can say that it is very good that legal-technically above the text of a member in a short term determines his title to make it easier to identify what the member is about, for the practitioners it is very important. I would like to point out in particular with the basic rules that sanctions are provided for persons who question their statements of presumption of innocence and violate the guarantees of independence and impartiality of the court. That's very important, that's what some colleagues here mentioned, that we really have a high level of freedom of information and things like this and that it's really possible to write about everything, but there must be some limits that this law sets in just one right way. So the assumption of the defendant's innocence cannot be compromised and the guarantees of independence and impartiality of the court cannot be violated. This applies to everything, including the means of public information. In particular, I think it's a good thing there's a decadent ban on violence against the defendant. These prohibitions have so far been prescribed by the Constitution, and they have been applied from case to case. But very often we are witnesses, at least we practitioners, that violence was and I think that such a decadent ban on violence against the defendant has a place to stand. I hope the app will be better than it's ever been before. There, that's what I could say. It is very important that a rule of doubt has been introduced in favour of the defendant. It used to be applied at will, now it's a legal principle. So, if there is a dilemma, all the evidence has been made, but there is a dilemma whether the act has been proven or about the application of some legal institutes related to the creature of the crime, the law requires the court to always make the decision so that it is more favourable for the defendant, it is very significant. Also, I think the achievement of this law that really requires a change in the role of prosecutors. I'd say it's finally happened. In some previous exhibitions, I mentioned the need to do so, and I am pleased that it was done. I think the role of the prosecutor is largely done in a different way. So, the prosecutor has to get into a more active role, so far the prosecutor, as colleagues here have noticed, has been very passive. So far, the prosecutor has received criminal charges from the interior ministry, filed a request for an investigation, filed charges, and was more or less passive in the case. This law requires him to have a significantly more active relationship, which is fine, with regard to his role as an independent state body which is solely responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences being prosecuted by official duty. So, only one particular organ, defined and defined by certain forms of deviating behavior. Such a determination really requires such regulation and I think it is very well suited to it. The prosecutor makes a solution to conduct an investigation, conducts a previous investigation, orders to internal affairs authorities, concludes an agreement with the defendant on the plea, and in the previous investigation he may conclude other specific agreements, which can again lead to appropriate decisions before the court's ruling concerning the guilt of the suspect. I believe that in this part of the law, especially when it comes to insight, that Article 256 is not a good thing that the prosecutor's will was left to come to an understanding or not to come. If we've defined ourselves to give the D.A. greater and wider authority to finally get into the position he's supposed to perform, we'll leave him at will that if he can't make it, he won't come. Then it seems in conflict with strengthening the role of prosecutors and the possibility of, or obligation to launch an investigation when it comes to knowing that someone has committed a crime being prosecuted by official duty. As for insight, as a very significant means of proof, as a very significant action, I think it's necessary for the prosecutor to be present and I think it's not good that he's left out to appreciate whether he has time or no time to come for insight. Then we find that certain things performed by the internal affairs authorities do not essentially correspond to the sketch itself from the scene or the measures being taken, or simply not found in the traffic for walking crossings, lighting, which, of course, the prosecutor would draw attention to and point out to the internal affairs authorities what to pay attention to in specific circumstances. I've made this simple now, but I'm quite certain that we share our opinion that the prosecutor's presence would be necessary in the light of it. I also think it is good that there is a ban on asking the damaged questions relating to his full life, political and ideological determination, racial, national, ethnic origin and other purely personal and family circumstances. I've never witnessed a situation where a damaged person finds himself when such questions are asked. So this is a very good solution and I really support this from the heart. I think that it should be far more protected by the rights damaged in this process, because I think that the procedure has remained more turned to some general, I would even dare call it an imaginary interest, and I think that the interest of the damaged is one of the leading interests that we need to have when we sanction socially illegal behavior, such as a criminal act. Detailed conditions are laid down for the status of a protected witness, an associate witness. It is also very good that detailed issues of simulated business services, simulated legal dealings are settled, according to the judge's decision. As far as the property-legal requirement is concerned, it was generally taken over by a valid law and I don't think it was good, or it could have been much better. Again, I think that the interests of the damaged require that the property-legal claim be gained more weight when it comes to the obligation of the criminal judges to determine the property-legal claim and decide on it. It remains that the judge will establish an property-law claim, a claim damaged by a criminal offence, only if the proceedings are not significantly delayed. That fleet, I would dare to call it that, we have 50 years and that flossula makes it impossible for the damaged to achieve a legitimate request in one procedure which, I want to tell you, given the threatened sanctions more inspired the defendant to compensate for damage or to return the matter than it is a litigation. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. In my opinion, the criminal proceedings should be used for the defendant, for the very coercion he brings with him, for the damage, for the return of the matter, or for the annulment of any illegal legal work. Unfortunately, it wasn't done here, and I think it was a mistake, it could have been done in a sentence that said that the court was obliged to decide if there was enough evidence. The court's doing evidence of all the circumstances, it's got them in front of it, and I don't see why it wouldn't make a decision. However, we left that reserve here and I can tell you that in 99% of the cases, the court doesn't decide on the property-law claim, it leaves it to the prosecution, and it's really not good. If you add that the court is not obliged to deliver a judicial verdict damaged, then it is apparent that this law still does not care for the damaged in an appropriate manner, I would say almost in no way. I think there's the weakest point of the law, taking care of the interests of the damaged. I think it could have been a lot better expressed through this law. A significant change is that the pre-criminal procedure becomes a previous investigation. That's where I have to say that the D.A. is really getting broad powers when it comes to a plea deal, it's for crimes up to 10 years in prison. Then, in a pre-criminal procedure, he can decide on forgiveness from prosecution, which is up to three years, and decide on the inconsistency of criminal prosecution for the actual remorse of the suspect, which he is and may be in the jurisdiction of the prosecutor. Because he essentially decides whether there are conditions for criminal prosecution and decides on the application of legal institutes, such as minor social dangers and so forth. There should be certain restrictions so as not to allow a complete deviation from the principle of officiality of prosecution. So, for the prosecutor, there should be certain restrictions. Something about the damaged one again. If I'd been a legislator, if I'd been in the government to propose it, I would've really advocated this place to protect the interest of the damaged. I suggest he do it. When it comes to a plea agreement, forgiveness from prosecution and when it comes to a criminal prosecution institute, when the prosecutor rejects criminal charges, it is necessary to apply these three institutes to compensate the defendant for damage to the injured. I guess that's the basic thing. Whom we protect by esculating this one, and the damaged one is not compensated for the damage. If it is so much for a society that is uninteresting in the processing of objects and that society is satisfied with the forgiveness or assessment of indifference, can society give in even so far as there is already a criminal offence that the defendant simply does not compensate for the damage. I think that an officiality correction here would have to be the responsibility of the defendant to compensate for the damage to the damaged. It's a minimum minimum. In the end, I'm going to be in custody. I think there's an unwarranted arrest issue here, and I think it's a significant question for all citizens, whether they're in custody now or not. I'm going to start again from our Constitution, which has a well-developed freedom of rights and the duty of a man and a citizen and I don't think there's going to be much change in that, since 1990, and I think that's good. Article 16 The Constitution says - a person suspected of committing a criminal offence may, on the basis of a decision by the competent court, be detained and detained in custody only if necessary for the purpose of conducting a criminal proceedings or the safety of people. Only if it's necessary. The duration of detention must be reduced to the shortest necessary time. The constitution speaks of detention relating to the period of the pre-cover procedure until the indictment has been brought. The detention period may be three months after the first-degree court's decision of three months from the day of detention. This deadline may be extended by a decision of the Supreme Court for another three months. If no charges are filed by the end of those deadlines, the defendant shall be released. By reading these provisions, not only grammatically and linguistically, you can conclude that the constitutionmaker or this congregation had the idea that detention was something extraordinary, only when it was necessary, timely exceptionally both according to personality and work, that it must be reduced to the shortest necessary time. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, Article 5(3), anyone arrested and deprived of liberty, in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 1(1), shall be without delay brought before a judge or another official by law designated to perform judicial functions and shall have the right to be tried within a reasonable period of time or to be released to trial. These are the instructions that the Constitution and the European Convention give us how to settle a question. How did we handle the custody issue? According to the current solution, these are members of 144 and 146, you have, I would call it, ordinary detention and detention when it comes to crimes of organised crime, against humanity and international law, and so on, meaning the most severe crimes and years of presumed. So that's where the constitution reserved when it came to handing over the indictment, six months in total. That's right. After handing over the indictment, according to a valid solution, for ordinary crimes for two years, for the most serious crimes of four years. After giving the first degree sentence, for ordinary crimes for a year, for the hardest two years. When a second-degree court lifts a first-degree verdict for ordinary crimes for two years, for the most serious crimes of two years. According to the proposal we now have, the total detention time is increasing, and this is increasing in the post-trial post-trial sentence 18 months instead of one year. That's where it gets bigger. We have that now detention can amount to, if we pass this law, for so-called. A common criminal as I call them, six years. That's where the verdict is. For the most serious crimes of nine years. It's been five and a half years and eight and a half years. I'm not sure this is a good solution. I think as before when we increased the time for which the court can determine detention, we already had it here in front of this parliament, that the Constitution does not allow such an elastic and extensive approach to detention. Especially if we compare it to the legal maximum and the minimum for the maximum number of crimes we've prescribed here in the Criminal Code, it's really six years for crimes, to call them ordinary, many, and not to mention what we're increasing from what we've got right now to this. Secondly, the minister said that the investigation is the procedure that requires the most time, of course, because, as I would say, it's a mining business. Evidence is collected, facts are determined which are later carried out in completely different circumstances before the court. The constitution in the investigation gave us six months of opportunity to do all of this under conditions when we begin the procedure. What are we doing? In conditions where everything is so chewed up, when the court gets all the evidence, when he has time to read it, we allow another five-and-a-half years to be conducted, and for more serious crimes eight-and-a-half years. Isn't that illogical? If the investigation, as a difficult part of the process, is the initial part of the process, in which it all gathers, as my colleague Mamula said, and later cannot be compensated, it takes six months, as it is possible for our judges to have five years, five and a half years to judge something. I think that's where we convalescate laziness, inertness, reluctantness and so forth. I don't think we should do this and the principle of this law is basically efficiency. I think that because of this efficiency of this detention provision, they had to remain at least on what the current law provided for, or now the applicable law. I don't think that's good, that it's too intense, and it's not consistent with the constitution. I don't think it leads to the establishment of laws and the protection of citizens' rights. I wanted to talk about one more thing, because I think it's important that we talk about deadlines. I always like to talk about deadlines, it's kind of important to me, because it doesn't matter to citizens what time they exercise some rights. I've been looking at and comparing the existing solutions and solutions that we have here. For example, when it comes to the decision-making and publication of judgments, according to the applicable law, judgments shall be published immediately and, if not, in three days. If the judge fails to announce in three days, the president will inform the President of the court. According to article 381 of the new one, the same is published immediately, and if not, not in three days, but in five days, we give another two days. What's the explanation for why we're extending the deadline? I don't think that's good. If he can't do it in five days, then he's notifying the President of the Court. I think that's really bad. If we analyze the written work and deliver the verdict, then I have to tell you that an old solution, or a valid and new solution, has no time to deliver a verdict to someone. It's actually a stumbling block in both litigation and guilt. Is the verdict made if it's made, and when do you get it? Well, that's how it happens to you that in May of last year, the hearing was closed in a lawsuit, and you get it somewhere in March of this year. He was on trial in due time. It says "May" up there last year, and you got it now. There's this vacuum of time where someone can do something, don't do it, keep it in the drawer. I have to tell you, it's the worst thing for parties when you keep an object in a drawer. Now I can tell all the judges and prosecutors: don't keep the items in the drawer, solve the cases within the time limit, that's the most important. Whatever you do, it's your right and no one interferes. Let them complain, let them exercise their right. The object in the drawer, the parties have no rights. According to the current law, writing the verdict is eight days after publication, and in more complex cases 15 days. I understand. If late, the president shall inform the President of the court. Delivery, when delivery, doesn't matter. Imagine, a judicial verdict is delivered to a damaged person only when he asks. What's new? Make within eight days, 15 days more complex. The judges have been given a criminal trial by this law, which has been proposed here for another month to write the verdicts. Why do we have a month? We have a lack of judge? If we're short, we'll pick new judges. Why 30 days? During that time, someone is in custody, no matter what the verdict is and whether someone is guilty or not. After all the deadlines, he gets another month here, informs the president of the court of reasons, and the president of the court takes steps to rule as soon as possible. What are those measures? What's going on? There's no other measure for me. That judge can't do a job at some point, a motion is submitted for resolution. That's the measure. There's no other measure. A judge who is capable and who will do it well is elected. That's the kind of judge there is. I know there are. There are people who want to do this job and let these people do it. The damage shall only be delivered to the judicial authority if it so requests. Poor damage to a regulation like this. In principle, I think that, apart from these indications about the damaged, and around detention should leave an old solution, the law in general is satisfying. I think it's a big step forward, because it has a balance of old and new, which is very rare for us to respect. I think we should accept it, with what I suggest, we've had a chance to listen to the minister's answers to some remarks here. I think he's given an argument, and I think he's ready to accept what's being argued. I thank you for that. I suggest you think about this and make some of these apparitions either now accept or for some future law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26319	Thank you, Mr. Christin. Minister, I guess it's just, you know why, I'm sorry, because there's already one question I'd like to ask, so it's more appropriate now that, since the agreement is that we'll only be working until the end of today, by the end of a united debate on all these points. In comparison, a break will be given a little earlier than an hour, right away, so I ask you if a brief address is to keep you from being interrupted. Here you go, so we can hear each other carefully. Here you go. Minister Zoran Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26320	No problem, just to answer this question to Ambassador Kristin. It's very simple. I said in the beginning, maybe you didn't hear me, accept the amendment, and go back to that real solution, the investigation for up to six months, and then every two months, there's a question of the reasons for the arrest. We didn't want to use the law. It could be flexible. You know, Giovanni Bruska was in custody in Italy for nine and a half years, so they thought it was a reasonable deadline. That's why we stuck to these exact terms more precisely than these general ones. It's just this matter of deadlines to make a decision. It's true that it's been given for five days, but if you have a complex subject, and you're publishing a verdict, the record is an integral part of the sentence of judgment. You have to type it whole, and if you have 30, 50 blamed or 150 parts. When you take what they have to report and what they have to do and everything else, I don't think this is a bad solution, for the simple reason that we've had three days, but in every complex case of seven days, they needed to beat the verdict, the original of the verdict, so they could publish it. And for detention, don't worry, we have to solve this impeccableness of the courts in another way, but it won't affect the detentions, because when he announces the verdict, he also has a solution to the detention, and if he does, he has the right to appeal within three days, and even if he's late with the verdict, he won't affect detention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26321	Thank you, Mr. Minister. So, after an hour's break, at 14.10 p.m., the MP of the People will first speak Vjerica Radet, Jovan Palalić, and Dragutin Peric. According to the record I have, I warn, the SRS parliamentary group has 60 minutes left, as Mr Jojic spoke exactly 36 minutes. Did I do something wrong? Thank you. [[After break – 14,15]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our afternoon work today's session. On the agenda is a united debate on three legislative proposals, first of all, once again a good day and, in case someone missed it this morning while I was on another obligation, of course, my congratulations to all of you for Europe's day and the day of victory over fascism. The order we have announced, the First Messenger of the People, Verica Radet, then the Messenger of the people, Jovan Palalić, and then the Messenger of the people Dragutin Peric. Here you are, Mrs. Radeta, sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26323	I still haven't made it clear to myself what pain the minister has made to convince the president of the assembly that we are discussing this law this way, which I believe the minister knows by rank right behind the Constitution. Why do I say back-to-back? Because I want to remind you that we have received this material on an unworkable day, I guess that we would somehow skip the amendments to these legislative proposals, and we have done our part of the job, regardless of the fact, and I am not clear on why this important law is being discussed in a package with two other draft laws, and then Krasic noticed it well today, neither the minister nor the other MPs who participate in the debate speak at all about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts, nor the draft law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutor assistants. So this is a continuation of bad practice and I'm going to say about these two laws very briefly, one sentence at a time. In the case of amendments and additions to the Courts' Law, we have one fundamental objection, which we have made through the only amendment that we have submitted to this law, which refers to the conflict between Article 22 paragraph 1 point 6) and Article 23 point 3 of the basic law, and this Article paragraph 1 paragraph 3 is amended in this law. I'm still interested in the fact that the minister will probably hear that I asked him that, it says here in the light of the law that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As far as we know, these courts you've predicted, the appeal amongst other things that you're talking about here, can't start working alongside all the other reasons and because there's no building. Now, how are we going to build a building if we don't need financial resources, maybe the minister will explain it to us, maybe that's possible in this government. When it comes to this bill of law on the training of judges, prosecutors and not reading everything, it is a longer title than the law itself, this is really very interesting and this is not the only law that devalues the acquired education in the course of regular education and in this case the passing of a judicial exam. We don't really know where the need to talk about the training of judges is in a special law. I don't know if it ever happened in practice, I don't think it was, that some judge was judging by a law that was no longer in force. I guess the judges are educated enough, professional and safe enough to know for themselves that they have to follow the rules, that's what they're doing in their work. They have to follow the rules and they have to judge by the laws that are passed in the National Assembly. So we think this is really totally unnecessary. And that's kind of fashion, because yesterday I was, you know, mild to say, shocked by the discussion of a colleague here, who put trees and stones on professors of law school who, as he said, don't even know how to use a computer. Just because they don't use a computer means they're not professional and they don't use experience in comparative law. Here a man wondered what kind of students they were throwing out as experts at law school if they weren't using computers. That's really amazing. Of course, I don't think a computer is a good invention and that it shouldn't be used, but I also find it unacceptable and unacceptable that some respected senior professor, who may, for some personal reasons, continue to write and let himself be typed, don't use computers, continue to read parallel legislation. All their lives they've worked like that, all their lives they've been experts, books and books written, students and students performed. Probably this fellow who was here yesterday was talking about the work of a professor who didn't use a computer, because there was no computer at the time. So, at all costs, we think it's not good, and we think it's another way to solve the problems in the judiciary, first of all, I mean the material position of the judges, the conditions of work. We already have several packages of judicial laws, as you call them, but solving essential problems is no problem. That's why we have a bill on criminal proceedings, really conceptually, we've already made it, for the SRS, unacceptable. Minister, it seems to me that you've seen a lot of James Bond movies and that's what this law looks like to you. I don't know what the motive was to go through with the new law. You said in your explanation: "Our positive Criminal Procedure Code belongs to continental-European criminal processing systems and it, regardless of the need for its radical processing, and independent of some of its "weak" points, can be marked as modern". Is it modern or not, do they need radical processing or do they not need it? Minister, I don't know if I've read or heard that the professional public has made a negative statement about the existing Code. I also don't know that there were any problems in application, or that the existing law in any way reduced the efficiency of the work of the courts. Again, I will repeat what I said yesterday, the problem is in solving the right way of staff problems, eliminating from courts and suing that small percentage of bad and corrupt judges and prosecutors, and allowing honest and professional people to come to terms, and those are the most in Serbia's judiciary. The main objections of the SRS and objections to this law can be grouped into two continents. One is a prosecutor as part of the executive government, on the one hand, and on the other hand as someone who will conduct an executive procedure. You've heard from your colleagues why we're against it and why we don't think that's good. It is true that this concise prosecution reminds much of the Hague prosecutor's office. Someone here said that after this law, our prosecutors would look like Carla del Ponte. I don't think that's possible, because we don't have such ugly people. As for our general objection, it refers to the existence of an associate witness. In addition to a protected witness, on which we have not made objections, the introduction and the witness-co-worker institute is, in our opinion, completely unnecessary, excessive. We believe and are convinced that the Institute of Witness Associates will lead to great abuses and very often to the unfounded pursuit of citizens. Ministers and fellow MPs, today the witness associate is the most profitable interest in Serbia. Today in Serbia, you can do whatever crimes you want, kill, rob, steal, and when you get bored, go to the prosecutor and say, "Now I'd rather not do this, I'm tired, let me be an associate witness, and you make me a list of who and what to charge, I'll say anything that suits you." It's acceptable. So the witness associate becomes master of life and death, Mr. Minister. We have cases like that. You know well, in this criminal trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, what is the role of a fellow witness, who are the witnesses, who were all accused, how they justified themselves, etc. Secondly, the more interesting it is to me, the two witnesses are an associate in the sheepdog criminal procedure. I will remind you, I have already talked about this, the criminal procedure "Ovcara" has been ordered from The Hague tribunal, with the intention of bringing the crime to the "Ovcara" in contact with SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj, because the prosecution in The Hague has no evidence to begin proceedings against Vojislav Seselj. That's why the trial doesn't even begin. Meanwhile, the indictment was extended, among other things, to Vukovar, and not for Vukovar for Vojislav Seselj, because, of course, neither man was there then, nor participated, nor SRS volunteers participated in the crime on "Ovcari", but there had to be a connection. Then Carla del Ponte, with that unfortunate Vukcevic, made the case, and then by the way, condemned the people, most of them innocent, although the first-degree verdict was issued, and six months had not been made, and two of the defendants who are now in prison, are dying, and will probably not be expected to be handed them a written verdict in order to file a complaint, let alone wait for the outcome of the appeal in the Supreme Court. One of the defendants died in the meantime. The point is that two witnesses were found with secret names, one is Petkovic, and the other is some "bloody" Bora. In their statements, they tried to explain that they heard from there that some there were called "The Chesheevites", that they had beards, etc. That was appropriate for the court council of this judge Krstajic. There was a special witness to that traitor, so-called. A journalist, Dulovic, and Aca Vasiljevic, who testified on the basis of something he heard from Dulovic, and Dulovic read from one of his calendars. So that kind of thing can go away. If this concept of this law is adopted, and if you do not accept our amendment to remove the witness associate from the law, then I really warn the citizens of Serbia that they must be as careful as possible, not to commit crimes, the citizens know it, but not to object to some thief and criminal in their environment, because he will wash himself, expose himself to whoever he wants, and then the court will accept a statement from a fellow witness and condemn someone neither guilty nor debtor, and then, according to that people's "two without a soul one without a head", it will appear to be the basis of the work of our judiciary. We've put in a number of amendments, and by amendments we'll talk more. It's impossible in a few minutes, as much as any MP can talk about this law, to speak more about details at all, but according to the amendments we'll talk about. Minister, I hope you've looked at our amendments, taken them seriously, and accepted them to make the law look like something to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26324	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalić, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26325	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's debate on a national strategy for judicial reform, one of the most important documents with which the Ministry of Justice came out, we have today two of the proposed three laws that are a direct implementation of the provisions of the national strategy. One of them is the draft law on criminal proceedings, and the other is a bill on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants. There is no doubt that today's debate dominated the debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that these two proposed laws, which are conducted by a united debate, were little in the shadows, since the absolutely certain code of criminal proceedings is one of the most important, fundamental laws that a country has passed and certainly deserves this much attention that it has given to it today in this debate. What is certainly to the satisfaction of this National Assembly is the fact that there has been an expert debate and controversy over two concepts and two visions of criminal proceedings, one of which continues to be what is the current positive legislation, i.e. those concepts criticised by the proposed law and those proposed by the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which are in line with the principle proposed to the national strategy, which is among other things the principle of efficiency. When analysing the Bill of Criminal Procedure and the new solutions provided for here, it is clear that right now those key subjects of criminal proceedings have been very precisely defined and their jurisdiction defined, without those particular problems which existed in the current law when it comes to the position of judges. We now have a situation here that the prosecutor is an organ of prosecution and he prosecutes for crimes, the judge judges, and the defendant proves his innocence in criminal proceedings, with all those instruments that provide him with criminal proceedings. According to us in the DSS, the very solutions and concept of this law are the best balance between the need for the state to effectively prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences and crime and to protect and ensure that basic human rights and freedoms are guaranteed both in our Constitution and in the ratified international documents. That's exactly how this law sets things up, and it's absolutely acceptable for us. What was the basic intensities of the legislator is the fact that the procedure is to be speeded up maximum and to ensure that all procedural rights are provided to participants in the process, that the guaranteed rights of citizens are provided and confirmed and that key prevention and message is thus provided that it is not good in the state of Serbia to commit crimes and that anyone who reaches it will be quick and efficient, but by law convicted. The discussion here today was, to a good extent, the fruit of the experience of the MPs, a fellow attorney, who had the opportunity to defend certain defendants, or were the proxies on the side of the criminal proceedings damaged, to see all the shortcomings of the current solutions, and how the main search takes place, how the investigation takes place, who are the key people in the investigation process, and what the role of prosecutors have so far been in the investigation process. I would agree with the finding that the prosecutor's role was extremely passive and a large part of the investigation case was indeed in one passive role and observed that the other authorities were doing their own activity, which is why the police, which is the investigative judge, collect certain evidence and thus prepare the indictment. Of course, it put the prosecutors in a passive role and at the very main search, as one of my colleagues said, we have in many cases the fact that the prosecutor is coming to the main search without asking a single question, except for the closing statement. Right now, in this bill of law, some solutions, which are quite new here and which we welcome, affect that the criminal proceedings are being conducted effectively and quickly, i.e. those instruments and those measures that are foreseen here in the best possible way prevent the abuse of the procedural powers of the subjects in criminal proceedings. This is what has been the biggest problem so far, so when it comes to the conduct of the main search itself, the call, the participation in the main search, the possibility of delaying, the possibility of obstructing the execution of certain evidence, and the fact that individual entities, including on the side of the defence, had a great and broad opportunity to delay the criminal proceedings and thus strengthen their position in the course of the criminal proceedings themselves. I can say that all these restrictive solutions, which are on the verge of limiting this abuse of procedural powers and on the side of the defense, we welcome. Of course, I also see that there is a new concept and an extended possibility when it comes to the exception, by having to make one remark. Personally, my opinion is that while it is good to narrow down the possibility of abuse of procedural powers, it is not good that some things are completely, in some ways or can appear in practice, disabling. Here I am talking about the exemption in paragraph 7 in the law, where it is said that the motion for the disfellowshipping of the President of the Court is decided by the Deputy President of the Court. I think, although it is said in the light of the law, that this will reduce the baseless requirements for exemption, in the event that, according to that request, there is a basis for doubt about the objectivity of the judge or the president of the court, the exemption will never be determined. I can't imagine the Deputy President of the Court making a decision to exempt the President of the Court. I think that's one solution that I don't think is good. As for the new institutes most discussed here, I think it's a good thing that the concept of participation and the possibility of determining a co-worker's witness, and his roles and the consequences of naming him as an associate witness, and I think it's a good thing that the way he's going to be appointed, the fact that he's finally going to be convicted of a crime that he's being burdened with, is something we welcome. Of course, it is evident that the legislator's intensities are largely extended to the authority of the public prosecutor in order to manage quality the investigation process and some options, which, according to his assessment, can lead to the prosecution, and if they are not established or it is unnecessary to burden the court, he removes, such as forgiveness of prosecution or inadequacy of prosecution due to the actual remorse of the suspect. These are some of the opportunities given by the plea agreement. It is good that the law provides, however, that such an agreement ultimately verifies the larger one leading the search. These are some options given to the D.A.'s office and that's good. Simply, the prosecution gets a large maneuvering space to adequately conduct an investigation and simply some cases, which do not need to be found on the main search, in some ways eliminates, so that the court does not burden itself with a trial and leaves him no room to judge for much more important matters. Of course, there's a lot of discussion here about the fact of the direct charge. It's very clear in the law that this possibility is conjectured. We have a previous investigation, where, through the involvement of other state authorities, I specifically think the police, there's a possibility of gathering enough evidence, which simply doesn't have to force the prosecutor to come up with a solution to conduct an investigation and go into investigation, there are simply such crimes where with a small number of evidence collected can immediately go to trial. Of course, the protection of the defendant through the review of the indictment of everything that goes on here, so I don't talk about it, I'll probably talk more about it in the discussion of details, providing the possibility that the rights of the defendant or the defendant are being accused of generic terms, protection. What's good here, I'd like to welcome it as someone who works in practice in this business, is the introduction that through audio and videos in some way determines the content shown in the main search itself. All of us who have been in practice know what the problem was and what are the numerous objections to the content of the minutes at the end of the main search and what is the possibility of obstructing the whole process. Right now, the fact that this possibility is being introduced and that the court's obligation to simply beat it after 72 hours is imposed, an adequate record shall be made according to what has been recorded on the tape or guided stenographically, allowing simply to remove any dilemma of what any of the participants in the procedure, whether the witness, the expert, the statement, and that is something that absolutely needs to be welcomed and as much practiced as possible. Of course, there is the obligation of the Ministry of Justice to provide these possibilities materially to every court, so that this possibility of abuse of procedural powers is completely eliminated. Anyway, we at the DSS support this concept. We think that judges should be given the exclusive opportunity to judge, that simple investigation and liability for prosecution should be taken over by prosecutors, and simply this is a good way to and what is provided for in the National Strategy, when it is seen that the intended position of prosecutors, when the position of judges is seen, is adequately implemented through this law. And it's a good thing that this long period has been left for the start of law enforcement, that all these material resources are adequately provided, so that the court and the prosecution are prepared to take this great responsibility. Of course, in the meantime, the National Strategy and those solutions that are foreseen there will probably be implemented, and through the High Council of the judiciary, and through state-level senior prosecutors, and probably new prosecutors who are elected will certainly be taken into account the fact to which they can take the great responsibility given to them immediately by the Code of Criminal Procedure. At the end of this presentation, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law and, of course, the law on the training of judges, of which I spoke a little more yesterday and talked about a lot of MPs. It is simply one necessity, a permanent education of judicial holders, which means that at any moment they are familiar with those laws that are adopted, with the solutions, to follow a parallel law and the days this way corresponds to the challenges that their call entails and that at the right moment they know that they provide adequate judicial protection to every citizen who appears with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26326	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dragutin Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Rakovac. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26327	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposer of the Code of Criminal Procedure tried, but failed, no matter how hard he tried, to work more fully on the procedural actions that would be necessary in order to establish the blame for the perpetrators of the crimes. However, such a proposal only creates confusion for participants in the process, as it contains many provisions depending on the stage of the proof process not only to mutually exclude but also to undermine each other. For example, on jurisdiction, then on the duty of testimony i.e. the release of the obligation to keep a secret, and allegedly with a written statement accused of allowing certain categories of witnesses and beyond the general principles in force to be released from the obligation to keep secrets that they have come professionally, learning some facts or circumstances of the defendant's profession. Well, it turns out that it doesn't matter what the defendant confessed to such a witness, treated him, even if the defendant trusted his lawyer in some procedure, formerly, in which he represented him as a defender, and in some circumstances in connection with some facts that might give evidence that they refer to the court in a case of evidence that such facts point significantly and decisively to the wine of the defendant. The bill also determines the form, i.e. The formal-legal assumption for the initiation and conduct of the procedure and as an obligation, which is also the most normal for the initiation of the procedure, is determined form i.e. The content of the proposal for submission of the proposal, then the content, i.e. form for the indictment proposal or content i.e. form to file a private suit. And all of this is governed by this proposal, up to the authority of these submissions, and even as an obligation it stands out means through the proposed law and the obligation to sign by the authorised person, which is essentially normal, because otherwise probably not, but certainly would be rejected by such submissions. But in other provisions, however, such a strict formality is excluded and the prosecutor's legal resources can be filed, as pointed out through the bill, and on the court's record. This is very strange that in the same law the provisions of the law are brought into conflict with each other, since they have made such proposals in the Code of Criminal Procedure. On the issue of the publication of judgments and the production of the same, i.e. the release of the judgment when it is drawn up in writing and its failure to provide it to the defendant if it has been made available to him by the court. The oral statement is quite a wrinkling question and discussion. Even if the accused would agree or give up the right to appeal in advance, because it has accelerated the process of justice and the facts of enforcement, but is lost in the light of this proposal that it violates the alleged principle of rationality and justice in the process, because the accused in advance is dissuaded by the law to be without a verdict, which would mean a lot to him, because he may be prevented from using any other legal remedies, such as emergency legal remedies, and if he is in possession of a correction of judgment, it is certain that this would be more favourable for him, so that he could be timely and permitted, if there are reasons, even for some extraordinary legal remedies to exercise a judicial decision in his favour. Furthermore, the proposed code does not clearly indicate the absolute material infringements of the proceedings, which are referred to in Article 392(1)-10), of which the first-degree court should take into account, by official duty, the second-degree court, if through the case files, that a significant breach of the procedure has been made, even if the judgment in that direction did not appeal or object. I point out this because, later on, Article 392 paragraph 1 would be far more understandable and correct, and then it could be pointed out in that position by the same member that the significant infringement of the procedure was committed and in other cases for which the accused could invest appropriate legal medicines. The transitional and final provisions state that this law enters into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication and will apply from June 2007, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 107, 110 and 117 to 112 which will apply on the date of entry into force. It is quite illogical of this provision, why the legislator is in such a hurry to pass this law when the law already has a last resorting fact, i.e. to apply it only since June 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26328	The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic has the word, and the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26329	Today we have had the opportunity to hear really different ideas about the concepts of criminal-processing rights with us, it is good and it is good that this is the way to conduct the debate, because it shows, first of all, the expertise of those who have debated, those who belong to the law firm, as well as those who are lawyers, who in their practice had the opportunity to face criminal procedural law. The procedural rights in the legislation are very important, because they are, especially when it comes to the judicial system, the judiciary system, the transponent bridge, the link between material law as social norms that regulate relations and life itself and application in certain specific situations. Of course, criminal law is a very important area of law, because it regulates illegal conduct and that form of illegal conduct that is described in the Criminal Code as a criminal offence in us. From the newly adopted Criminal Code, we have a slightly different definition of a crime compared to what is formerly a right, especially what we inherited in terms of socialism, defined, so today we have a unique concept, subjective and objective concept of a crime, i.e. an objective entity, which includes in itself guilt as a special subjective element in relation to objective elements of a criminal offence. So only the existence of a crime is, in itself, the basis for a conviction, and the determination of the fact that a crime does not exist is a practical basis for suspending the proceedings. for the release of responsibility. So the importance of procedural law is very clear, especially given the criminal-processing law. The new Code of Criminal Procedure, which is before us, is the logical consequence of what has already been presented in the first item of the agenda of this session when it comes to judicial reform, and is practically an integral part of a truly broad view of judicial reform in our country and judicial reform in general. Of course, the proposal for a new law is due to the changes that occurred in the material area of criminal law i.e. in the Penal Code. This results from the objectives of the criminal-processing law code and, of course, that this code has suffered those changes in the area of criminal-processing law that were sufficient and optimal to meet exactly these objectives which are in the sense and give. I will remind you that this is a faster and more effective criminal procedure, it is the protection of human rights and freedoms, but when we talk about the protection of human rights and freedoms, we are talking about those elements of the proposed law that provide for their consistent application and we will give a few examples, and we will see that this is so, and this is about those human rights and freedoms which are subject to the protection of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Small Charter when it comes to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of the SCG, as well as those international and legal documents, or contracts that have been ratified by our country and which represent, on that side, part of our internal legal order. Then, it was necessary to comply with criminal-processing provisions with other rules relating to criminal proceedings and which have been brought before, and, of course, the appearance of a criminal-processing law itself must contain such standards to comply with those standards set before us as part of international obligations in relation to this regulation. What are the newspapers that practically contribute to achieving these goals, and I will try not to cite any solutions from those that have already been known to us and have been part of our internal legal order so far. So, I'm going to list some that may have been less distracted by now, with the danger of repeating some. First, it is a consistently implemented rule of presummation of innocence, because the provision that we have in the Criminal Code in the previous period of criminal law we did not have consistently implemented in this way, this time is carefully written in Article 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and it simply foresees in itself and criminal provisions for those participants in the procedure that violates this very important rule which, ultimately, is the constitutional principle and rests on the principle of the protection of freedom and the rights of man and citizen. You have an interesting provision on the judge's exemption. Here, unlike the previous system in which we had the possibility of an exception from a judge who was just being involved in a verdict, we here have an extended understanding of the possibility of a judge's exemption when it comes to the judge who participated in the case, in the proceedings of a lower court. So, only participation in the procedure is the basis for the exception. Then, as regards the deadlines for the main search, we have a deadline for preparing the main search and starting the main search. We have a situation regarding the judges, when the delay in the search lasted longer than four months or the president was changed, the main search doesn't have to start over, which also contributes to the efficiency of criminal proceedings. And those principles, such as the principle of concentration, evidence, have receded here to some new circumstances that have arisen and which this same criminal code provides in other provisions, such as the recording of testimony of witnesses, artists, audiovisual recording of the course of the proceedings and the process of carrying out the evidence. With that in mind, of course, I mentioned a significant reduction in deadlines. What's very important and what I'm going to say is something special, it's a special role as a public prosecutor and a different setting when it comes to a criminal investigation. This is a different role as a public prosecutor and as far as solutions are concerned. We've got some sort of change from the defenders you could spot there. You have seen a reduction in the maximum number of defenders from five to three, and of course there is a resonance in practice so far to see that there are actually no reasons for enabling such a high number, while all the reasons for reducing the number of defenders, also in order to be efficient and reduce the course of the procedure, are also standing. The phases of the criminal proceedings are defined differently. You used to have, and it has to do with the role of prosecutors in criminal proceedings, pre-criminal proceedings, and now we have different stages. We have two stages of a previous investigation, or previous proceedings. The first stage we have previous investigations, we have previous proceedings, which consist of the very investigation of the indictment, the indictee's incarceration and the review of the indictment. These two stages are characteristic of that, I'm going back to the public prosecutor, which is in principle handled by a public prosecutor, which is very good. In fact, at the stage of the investigation, all necessary evidence is collected for the conduct of the proceedings. Of course, it is good for the public prosecutor to be involved with this position and with this capacity at this stage of the procedure, because it provides us with a much better position of the public prosecutor than the matter itself and getting to know the evidence itself, when it comes to the course of the proceedings. It's much easier to do it that way than to do it on the basis of criminal charges. There is a loss of what is very important to us in judicial reform, and in particular criminal law, valuable time is wasted. We should always know that the time of proceedings is a very important element when it comes to the prevention of criminal acts. For some time, even the level of criminal punishment threatened is no guarantee that these crimes will not be repeated. The greatest guarantee that crimes will not be repeated in society and that criminality will be contained is above all the extent of the discovery of crimes. It's business, of course, those authorities that are conducting investigations, including the police themselves. Of course, and the penalty that must arrive on time, which must catch up with the perpetrators in time, means that it is more important that the crime be revealed than the amount of the punishment that is threatened. When it comes to crime and crime theory, crime first of all, and phenology, I am in favor of this theory that a very important frequency of detection of crimes, the number of crimes detected in relation to the dark figure, rather than the height of the threatened punishment, when it comes to the repression of crime. Of course, we have a different view of carrying out evidence, we have the concept of evidence stores. We used to have a different concept of so-called. evidence actions, where evidence was first and foremost referred to, therefore, the very process of carrying out evidence, however, the most important thing for the criminal proceedings is the collection of evidence. Therefore, evidence works are those actions that collect evidence and provide evidence. Everything that is directed at proof is subsidized by this concept, and within this concept we have certain novelties, different defined concepts of individual actions, which are extremely significant and are directly related to the other parts of this bill, which apply, therefore, to what I said a moment ago. It is, above all, an insight into photos, hearing sound recordings and videos, viewing computers, searching files in computers, audiovisual recording of individual evidence actions during the process. In this way you have, in addition to the minutes being kept, and another type of recording of the course of the procedure which can also be significant from the aspect of the means of proof itself. When it comes to testimony, we have a certain newspaper that refers to opportunities for people to free themselves of testimony when it comes to a particular relationship that exists between the defendant and other persons. There's a new relationship here, and that's godmotherhood. We didn't have that before. This comes first of all from the reality of life and the needs that are part of our lives and that are real. So it just can't be ignored. In that sense, and in making an oath to the court when the oath is taken, then we have two kinds of oaths again. One is a lay oath, and the other is a religious oath, and from the assumption that the earlier system of religious oaths did not know, and that there are great opportunities and great prospects, given the reality of life in which we live, that this religious oath can have a certain powerful influence and exceptional importance when it comes to swearing. When calling witnesses and calling participants in the process, the internet plays a big role, and it should play, and this law foresees that possibility. Ignoring electronic communication is really something that can't happen. This law introduces this paper and the possibility of calling through an e-mail and in other ways to ensure that the call is credible. We have the possibility of introducing a virtual reconstruction when it comes to criminal activity and the expertise of the crime. We have regulated special actions, such as sound and optical surveillance of the suspect, simulated services and legal affairs, we have an undercover investigator, which we have heard a lot from some of the MPs. We believe that the introduction of this category of special proof is very important for our legal system and the situation in which our country is located, because obviously without these measures we will not manage to cope adequately with those types of crime that we often call organized crime today and that this kind of pollution is conditioned, which is the proposed legal formulation, extremely necessary for the realization of this struggle. Then controlled delivery, automatic computer search of personal and other data, hearing of an associate witness, which we also had the opportunity to hear certain understandings. Again, we at the DSS, that the introduction of this institution is extremely important for our criminal-processing rights, because it will also be one of those elements that will contribute to stronger crime prevention, especially the types of crime that fall within organised crime. There are different new measures or different defined measures to ensure the presence of the defendant when it comes to the ban on leaving, here we say places, not just to stay, but to certain places, and most importantly, there is a broader and more flexible formulation. A ban on leaving the apartment, when it comes to electronic surveillance of the defendant, as an opportunity that exists here. In the case of property-legal claim damaged, we have fully introduced the possibility of mediation in this case. We have an investigation that isn't defined as a mandatory phase of criminal proceedings, which is very important. We have a plea agreement, as a newspaper in our criminal-processing law, which is important that the plea agreement, in order for it to work, needs certain conditions to be met, and this is primarily that the accused, knowingly and voluntarily, confesses to a criminal act, that the agreement is concluded in accordance with the law, that the defendants deny the rights to appeal and trial. But then only if there is other evidence to support his guilt and that the rights damaged in the proceedings are not violated, and that the agreement is not contrary to the purpose of the criminal proceedings. This is one set of conditions set by the bill to bring about a plea agreement. When we say this to the institute, these circumstances must be kept in mind, if and the circumstance to judge, according to this bill, i.e. greater, must constantly take care of certain elements to be taken into account under official duty. I have remained obliged from the beginning to highlight the significant difference between the bill's proposal and the positive solution in our criminal-processing legislation - it is the position of the public prosecutor. The introduction of a prosecutor's investigation is very important to us because it relieves, on the one hand, the role of the court, because we really think and we are deeply convinced that the role of the court cannot be made up into the fact that it collects the facts that are relevant for the initiation of the criminal proceedings. It can't be an exaggeration of the court's role. I know it might be a good idea if we could define ourselves here as some pure solution and where we could completely throw out the role of an investigative judge. However, this simply, given the legacy of our legal system, was not possible. This has led to a more flexible solution that includes the role of the investigative judge in the process, which is, on the other hand, a very clear definition of prosecutors as one of those institutions in our system that manages the investigation. This is very important, he handles the investigation in the previous investigation, as well as those investigations that are part of the previous proceedings. Hence, and the possibility that an investigative judge, other than the police, can make a decision on detention before the investigative judge can reach a verdict on detention, because, of course, the decision on detention and at all individual acts to go to prison must be brought by the courts, and this cannot be done by the prosecution, nor by the police, but certainly in this case, the public prosecutor, in view of his capacity, has been authorised to do so, as logically as he is handling the investigation by the public prosecutor, is making a decision on the investigation. Therefore, this will contribute in any case to speeding up criminal proceedings, because speeding up the criminal procedure, as I said, is an important element in the fight against crime and an important element in countering the total number of crime in our country. It will dissipate the court, and this system has been applied in a large series of parallel legal systems, especially European states, and has so far shown in practice an extremely large advantage compared to that system that we have so far had the opportunity to exhibit in our criminal practice. Therefore, these reasons which are presented here are part of the reasons and part of the papers introduced by this law, with respect to all the criticisms that can be heard in relation to each of these individual institutes and the dilemmas that may arise about their application, which we will certainly discuss, hopefully, a little more in that part of the debate which is discussed in the particulars of the amendments that have been tabled, and then, of course, in the hope that the amendments are actually submitted to those members of the Bills that cause the most disputes, that these issues will then be discussed, as well as that some of the solutions provided for in this bill will be defended in practice. Please and I urge you to adopt this criminal code proposal and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26330	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the rule of law in Serbia is still very fragile, primarily because of constitutional and legal uncertainty. We had this opportunity yesterday to see from the presentation of the Minister and from the National Strategy, that is, the law on which it is proposed, because in the most part it opposes the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because of the enormous political impact on the judiciary in Serbia, which is manifested through a very poor choice, through the High Council of Justice and the proposal of the holders of the highest judicial functions, and now, through the adoption of that law yesterday, because you will obviously adopt it, niding the role of the most legislative authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And there is awareness in the people and among the citizens of Serbia when it comes to crime and corruption, which also have interference in the Serbian judiciary. We believe that the vast majority of judicial officials are extremely honorable and that these are people who are responsible and secure in doing their job. The latest examples, especially Kljajevic and the company, and a warning from Serbian radicals that they were criminals and that they were dragged into lamb skin, which presented themselves to citizens as some who were willing to deal with serious economic issues and resolving these problems, turned out to be tough criminals, which we are talking about years ago. It's really time so short that we can't talk about these three laws without spending half an hour or an hour individually. We'll use the opportunity when the amendments are on the agenda. But, not to create a confusion with the public or with some MPs, how did Mr Stojkovic, the minister of justice – who had been in the judicial office for so many years, which long after the system and by a well-founded principle that opposed to Angolan law ended the Law School in Belgrade – the idea of installing institutes that exist in Angolan law. This was most often seen by citizens in individual screenings, such as the already mentioned James Bond or some others, and which are of course applied, with the violation of all basic human rights, inquisitor so-called. The tribunal in The Hague. We can't agree with that and that's the fundamental difference between you and me. So, we think that in a very short time from the position of government, Serbian radicals, affirmatives and reaffirmed the role of the judiciary in our country, as one of the key roles for the affirmation of the entire society. We would do this in an extremely rational and efficient way and ensure that every man has the opportunity to have a fair, fair and fair trial, and we believe that such a criminal code can't be done. Mr Jojic told you nicely, in the most difficult circumstances per nation and state, when he was a federal minister, he worked thoroughly for two years to prepare the criminal procedural code that you are now most of all changing, or a completely different concept you are proposing. That's pointless, because his decision and decision by the authorities at the time, namely us from whose turn he was a minister, was primarily based on what is in our judiciary, how the educated people, how they graduated from law schools, were elected to prosecutors and judges. And now, through this new model, you're bringing into the Serbian judiciary something that you, Mr. Minister, as unknown as it was yesterday, you know, because you're a lawyer, because you were the holder of a judicial function, but something that wasn't even on your mind that would be applied to our practice. All of these institutes, apart from a large dose of subjugation and coldness, and open suspicions among Serbian citizens, question the entire judiciary and the possibility of numerous abuses. As I said the time was very short, I'll just focus on some of those points in this presentation, since we have a lot of amendments. When we said it was necessary and inevitable to delete Article 151. The bill that introduces the institute of an undercover investigator, we said first of all because it's a great unknown to what this person is going to do. This cannot be seen from these points of the proposed Article 151. It can be partly, but because we think, although we are the opposition, that most of the time our police are highly professional. I can say that as a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, although we are sharply criticising and voting against these police reports. When we have there under that designation - the official secret, as members of the Committee, certain segments of the fight against organised crime, against groups that go to destroy the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia and affect the overall security of the state, or the citizens of Serbia, then we cannot say that this job is done in the most part, but it would have to be even more intensive, especially because of the fact that such danger threatens in certain parts of our country. These tendencies of those that would destroy Serbia's constitutional order and which directly by their organisation and as criminal groups, not to say paramilitary and terrorist, work in Serbia's area, and how they raise their heads, especially when it comes to southern Serbia, or three municipalities in southern Serbia, Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. There are numerous examples, and this is most often discussed by counterpart Mitrovica, SRS MP at the Committee on Defence and Security sessions. It's incomprehensible now that there is and when the police have to be professionalized and given the opportunity through equipment, through finance, through logistics and any other support to do this job, you're making up some undercover investigator, who, like in those Hollywood movies, is going to appear and do some work that he's doing so far. You're still saying that in that place, and even those who are retired extremely, if the circumstances require it, and who is to assess these circumstances, from a retired position to reactivate myself as the minister of police, or the director of the BIA. To some police minister or BIA director, these two may not have to do so, too, anything that is and how low professionally, and some former police officer, can be found in such a position and through, at the very least faked and falsified reports, to work for the opposite side. Then you need to have some other counterintelligence service, some pandan and BIA, and I don't know who, to find out who that someone is and if you are, and especially recruiting that someone in the line of retired ex-cops, there's anything there, you could have done. He went to Dusan Mihajlovic retired, he was interior minister, thought of recruiting him for such a job. He worked with the biggest mob, with the biggest criminals. As for Article 168, and mentioned by the former DOS Minister of the Interior, I will also tell you that this attitude 9, which my colleague Sarovic proposed to amend, which you say is that if it does not harm the health of the defendant, you can set up the tracking devices, or the transmitter. Unbelievable. In which film you saw it, in which follow-up to James Bond, whether in that "Die another day" or in someone else, I really don't know, but this is really funny. I have to tell you that one witness associate, that criminal and leader of the Zemun clan, Ljubish Buha Chume, was far more visible than you, as in many cases, he who today costs so much the state and who is your witness associate, himself admitted that he had these transmitters, but at the wrist of Dusan Mihajlovic. He admitted well that in one of the talks with him, when they agreed on how to work and to be together in the hearing about all these affairs of the Zemun clan, he himself admitted and said that some of the devices under the table recorded everything that Mihajlović was saying, Ceda Jovanovic and all those who and how they were in a close relationship, and they were carriers of the regime of the previous DOS government, before this mini DOS. It is amazing that you suggest such a thing and introduce it, especially when you have in mind and the case of a fellow witness who already exists in the anti-Serb UN tribunal. You know that the witness associate, especially on Dusan Mihajlovic's initiative, was Milan Babic in the Hague case, who committed suicide in early April of this year. Now the president of our party, who has been incarcerated there for four years, and his trial doesn't begin, according to methods, and the way you give prosecutors the opportunity to act here, in his play he wrote and sent to The Hague tribunal, told him to ask an open question, and that's a question for you, Mr. Minister -- what happens if all those witnesses eventually commit suicide? If one Milan Babic, who is such a liar, vomiting, slandering and inventing events and all that is involved in these unsuspecting accusations, had nothing to do with the president of our SRS, cooperated with the prosecutor, whether you were asked the question, and perhaps there were many others who cooperated in such a way, what would happen if an epidemic caught them, because you know, no one could appreciate such an epidemic, nor respect, or even those closest to them, who eventually need to see what would happen to them who end up in such a way. So, it is impossible for me to look further at the proposal of this law in some detail, but I think, as Mr Krasic said, as the authorised representative, as well as all fellow SRS lawyers, because it is indeed an expert team for example that we have in our party when it comes to people from this profession, who have been working on these laws for years, such as colleagues Jojic, who presented a completely different concept when he was a minister, in the current law, we are going to criticise the most. We believe that what you have suggested is just a trail of events that have been drawn to you in what they have now hitched you, and that is to make progress in the process of so-called. Stabilisation and Association, because the November 2005 report precisely determines what order you as minister, what other ministers should do, what laws and at what pace should come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They have found here that you have not freed yourself from the legacy of the previous regime, I am probably referring to this criminal DOS regime, headed by the Democratic Party, because it is the previous regime. They've told you nicely what you should do and in what order. Now I expect, Mr. Minister, since this is all over, the next phase is because I haven't been able to speak in principle about the coming to the National Assembly of Financial Support Law is about the so-called law, the training centre of judges and prosecutors. That's what your next assignment is. I believe that, with some delay, you are now experiencing new problems in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to come before the National Assembly with that law, because it is all already written and already known in advance what you should do. You don't ask yourself anything at all. Finally, what I would like to add is that in the context of your exposure yesterday that you are not concerned with politics and that you are as a professional person, as a minister, you have come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what you are proposing, all of these examples of practice and all of what was happening rather than politics, but in some phase of deviant thinking as politicians and as ministers these days your colleagues are entering, particularly Mr Loncar and Mr Popovic, who, instead of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, give statements about what to General Ratko Mladic, where you are chasing him and looking for him. I sincerely hope, as well as millions of Serbian patriots, that you will never know where he is and that he will preserve his military honor and dignity, because we Serbian radicals and all Serbian patriots respect what he has done for the Serbian people in the fight against those who have rebelled against everything that is Serbian. It is interesting that today, on May 9th, not in the way these neo-fascists, who have acted in this way in the Assembly, try to present it in this rally, with all the participation of Ivana Dulic-Marković, but in one dignified way our brothers and friends in Russia, who are all what is tradition and what is, above all, the pride of this people and all who have fought against this evil, in one magnificent way celebrate in the capital of the Russian Federation. We will fight against such laws, we think they are very bad and by coming to power we will immediately restore Jojic's law to force, our concept. So it will be in all segments of government and what our society needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26332	The People's Messenger Donka Banovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26333	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, would still be back on the subject. Yesterday we discussed the National Strategy for Justice Reform, an extremely important strategic document. A number of MPs criticised the strategy, while others praised it. However, it seems to me that we have all agreed on one issue, which is the importance of quality training and professional training for all parts of the judicial system. The education of judicial employees is perhaps the most important area that we face and which needs very thorough reforms. Changing regulations, turning to international standards and introducing new technologies puts new tasks and challenges ahead of all who work in the judiciary. The existing legislation on training with professional training is laid down in Article 8. The Law on Judges and a certain number of members in the Law on Court Orders. Those few members aren't far enough. Therefore, the existing legal framework does not regulate their training system in a comprehensive way, nor provides for its efficient organisation and implementation. Positive regulations do not define the concept and objective of training of judicial holders, nor are specific bodies and organisations for its implementation. When the draft law on training of legal holders and their assistants comes into force, it is one of the three laws we are discussing today, all shortcomings and legal gaps will be eliminated and conditions for quality training and professional training will be created. Of particular importance for the successful exercise of judicial functions is the training that judicial officials attend before taking office. It's so-called. initial training. The law in the initial training work aims to put the initial training of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors in a legal manner that can be put into office immediately. The law is fully in line with the positive regulations governing the choice of judges, prosecutors, judicial and prosecutorial interns and assistants, thus introducing mandatory initial training without amending the laws mentioned. It is foreseen that mandatory initial training is organised for the holders of judicial functions, chosen for the first time, in the period between the elections and the entry into service. With regard to continuous training and permanent professional training, the applicable legal provisions are prescribed that legal holders only have the right to professional training on the cost of the State. So they have no obligation. This generally arranged way of continuous training does not guarantee its availability, nor does it provide a successful implementation. This law prescribes the types and modes of training. Article 4 states that the holders of judicial functions have the right, but also the obligation, to improve themselves professionally. The law clearly determines all users of training. The users of initial training are certain judicial and prosecutorial assistants, as well as the holders of judicial functions that were first elected, thus introducing initial training as mandatory, which has not been the case so far. The High Council of Justice shall make the choice of users of initial training in the order of assistants and, according to the prescribed criteria, provide the best assistants with access to initial training. As initial training costs the state quite a lot, the law imposes an obligation that if a function holder ceases to perform that function to which he is elected, he must make up for the costs. The High Council of Justice is the one who prescribes and determines the initial training programme. The council appoints a training committee from the judge and prosecutor's office, which is tasked with proposing a valid programme. This, of course, also provides the proper quality of educational programs and organizations to implement them. The judicial centre for training and professional training is an institution that determines a permanent training programme. Otherwise, the centre has successfully organized training since 2002 and has the necessary experience and resources at this time. The law also determines the duration of initial training. The judicial and prosecutorial assistants will be trained for two years, and the judicial officers who were elected and were not assistants, they were not able to attend initial training, will have initial training for three to six months. There are clearly prescribed places where training can be done, as well as precise criteria for selecting quality lecturers. As the aim of training is to acquire and perfect theoretical and practical knowledge and skills, training programmes will be conducted by the holders of judicial functions themselves, as well as other prominent experts. The main objective of this draft law on training is to improve the expertise of all legal holders and administrations to raise the general level of knowledge of judicial staff. The DSS will vote for this law, because we are aware that without quality personnel there is no effective and quality judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26334	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, and after him the People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26335	Dear Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, the task of the contracting officers of this Code on Criminal Procedure, as well as almost all laws, is that this Kostunica's puppet government is gradually but surely abandoning traditional European law and accepting the rights of the Angolan countries, which are from the European i.e. It differs from our right by a series of personalities, and especially by a large role of ordinary law and judicial practice. This right was not under the influence of Roman private law, and it is understandable that it has developed in special social and economic conditions. Quality is on the side of our European law and on its application mechanism in practice. Dear People's MPs, by adopting the Code of Criminal Procedure, as one of the systemic and after the Constitution of one of the best laws, should present an important event in each country and should draw public attention, especially to the professional public. That's how it's supposed to be with our country. But unfortunately, the divided legislation between the federal state and the republics of the Member States is no longer possible, because the puppet Doss regime and the Ustasha regime of Milo Djukanovic destroyed our common state with the Constitutional Charter. Given that they have destroyed the common state, you are in a hurry to adopt this law before the referendum ends the common state of the Serb people living in Serbia-Montenegro. The bill on criminal proceedings is another manipulation of the authorities i.e. There is no reason to amend the existing code, as this proposal will not allow more effective crime control or protect the rights of participants in criminal proceedings. First of all, the proposer makes a cardinal mistake by removing the basic principles in the proposal, I do not know why, which exist in the existing, applicable code, and instead of the basic principles, introduces the rules of procedure. In fact, it's really clear to me that this regime has long lost its principles and has no principles for it, nor those essential, which it must adhere to in every procedure, or criminal procedure. It is not clear why sanctions are being imposed on natural and legal persons who allegedly question the presumption of innocence by statements of criminal proceedings, as if a person's statement could question the presumption of innocence. Of course, you know that, Mr. Minister, so you're introducing even dragon penalties to 450,000 dinars. It will be a clear abuse of power because it has not been precisely determined what should be a violation of the rules of presummation of innocence, and in practice there will be numerous abuses of party investigative judges, prosecutors and party presidents of courts. The promoter introduces a provision that has no contact points with legal science, profession and logic, which is that the defendant must not be forced to testify against himself. How is it possible for the defendant to be a witness? That's impossible, gentlemen, and you've copied it from the European bosses, destroying our legal system, destroying the purity of the law, and dirtying it wherever you can and wherever possible. The SRS considers that it is not appropriate to amend the existing law in respect of jurisdiction and composition of judicial councils and that the existing composition of the judicial councils, depending on whether the criminal offence is subject to a sentence of more than or less than 15 years, more than the one proposed, to be tried by more than five judges for a criminal council where a sentence of more than 30 years is provided, and greater than three judges, if the sentence is less than 30 years. Where crimes have been threatened for over 15 years, it is, Mr. Minister, a very serious crime, and it must be judged by more than five judges. The draft law states that, in the exception of the President of the Court, the Deputy President of the Court decides, which is unacceptable and unacceptable, because it is possible for the President's exemption to be decided directly by the lower body than it, which is also subject to it. In practice, it will always happen that it is in vain to seek the exemption of the President of the Court, which is contrary to the very criminal proceedings and the principles of criminal proceedings, and it is in direct contrast to the basic principle of criminal law, the principle of material truth, because it is the aim of a criminal procedure to come to the full truth, which will depend on the decision on punishment itself. I ask you how the judge will determine the truth if he is biased and if his deputy participates in his exception. This solution is precisely the legal violence and the culmination of the proposal's will. The bill provides too much authority to the public prosecutor, which is conducting a pre-criminal investigation, making a solution to conduct an investigation and conducting an investigation. That's how you eliminate judges, so completely investigative judges, according to that cadium system, you're being sued by cadium. How is it possible for you to give the prosecutor information that he can't really have, which is that a public prosecutor initiates a disciplinary procedure against members of the internal affairs authorities, if he, a public prosecutor, is an independent authority and is not a worker of the internal affairs authority. It should be clear to the promoter, however, that a disciplinary procedure would be initiated against the workers of the internal affairs must be a basic prerequisite that this disciplinary violation is provided for by a disciplinary act of the internal affairs authority, which is, in particular, a non-compliance at the request of the public prosecutor. The question arises how is it possible to initiate a disciplinary procedure for a violation that does not exist? The bill introduces newspapers on the exclusion of defenders, his fines, Article 70, and even criminal persecution, which is beyond common sense, and the attack on this honorable profession, which is performed with honor and responsibility by 99.99% of lawyers, thus virtually abolishing the defence, and the provisions on the punishment of lawyers are excluded and are contrary to Article 75. It's a bill of law. That the existing solutions are better shown also by this nacho member of 95. The bill, which violates the fundamental rights of the defendant, which, after reading the criminal report, prohibits the conversation of the defendant, as long as the accused is heard, as you have said extremely unequivocally. I'm guessing he's been questioned, Mr. Minister, because the expert terms of guilt have been questioned, and in the case of a lawsuit, have been heard. That's how you police beatings are allowed, which is what's going to happen in practice, that they're harassing people, that's what only the shitheads from the time we thought had been through for a long time. Inadmissible proposals, Article 124, which envisions the skills of foreign experts, questioning the expertise of domestic professional institutions, which are entrusted with the skills of the relevant profession. In Article 146, you're introducing a secret audio surveillance suspect for almost all crimes, which is deeply affecting the unsub's personal life, where the police state will practically do whatever it wants. In particular, the SRS has objections to members related to the detention that may take place under this new proposal for six years or an incredible nine years. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you all know that the preventive deprivement of freedom of custody against a person who has a reasonable suspicion that he has committed a crime, if necessary for the sake of the conduct of a criminal procedure or for the safety of people. Whether it is mandatory or optional, it is determined by the court and only by an exceptional decision by another law by a certain authority. So detention is one necessary measure that has to last as soon as possible, because otherwise there would be no difference between this institute and the punishment. When it comes to punishment, the person is called guilty and punished, and the detained person until then is presummated by his innocence, because it is not considered a prisoner but a person in custody. Which is why you're vulgarizing this necessary measure to that degree to take the elements of the prison sentence, which is not and must not be, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, detention must be reduced to the most necessary time. Is it time of six or nine years short? It's short-sighted for you because it fits your involvement in the work of the judicial authorities, and you don't know, and you don't want to know that you underestimate those organs multiplely. First of all, you don't let them work by law, secondly, you don't trust the judicial authorities, or their work and their up-to-dateness, which will be imposed as a permanent problem, if you've already tied their hands. An unacceptable plea agreement is unacceptable, which introduces the Anglo-Saxon law into ours, which is totally unacceptable in our terms, and the mutual recognition of the guilt between the prosecutor and the guilty of such serious crimes where the sentence of up to ten years is threatened. This will provide an opportunity for the greatest abuses, when the prosecutor and criminal, I'm speaking conditionally, agreeing on the level of punishment, the costs of the proceedings, the denial of the appeal if the criminal confesses to the execution of the act, and of course if he pays, how your Anglo-Saxon Democrats do it. The draft law on criminal proceedings also provides for dragon sentences for witnesses, artists, and even defenders, up to an incredible 450,000, and up to three million. Such foreseeable dragon penalties are not suited to our terms or material opportunities of witnesses, experts and lawyers, who will not be able to pay the fine, so that punishment is nothing but a robbery by this regime. For you, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is only one remaining that, if you hold to the profession, you withdraw this caucus law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26336	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, Sreto Peric is not there, the next MP, Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26337	Ladies and gentlemen, it's easy to be and it's the easiest thing to be an opposition. The opposition can speak, criticise, criticise, not answer for its own words. The opposition can claim whatever it wants, and that the country is like this and like this, and that Serbia is an island in one ocean of infinity, but it's not. Serbia is closely connected by various threads to the environment, Europe and the world. The world is a global village and Serbia is only a part of that world. Serbia is connected not only to the successful, advanced, but also to what is backwards in every country. So there are new, modern forms of crime in Serbia. Serbia is a country that, whether or not, is opposed to it, and there are those who oppose it, a country that will advance, a country that will create better conditions, which will develop for itself and for its future generations. Therefore, it is also necessary, the law, nor social relations have ever been given once and for all. It is illusory to mention Roman law or slave property or any capitalist, communist, however you will, 40, ten years ago, when social relations are something living because they are made by people, they are made by social relations. Human societies are developing, and that creates new forms of crime, why not. An example of cybercrime. Human relations are developing and therefore both necessary and necessary to change relations and laws, predict new institutes that in an adequate way or in the best way possible will be able to prevent crime in this case. There is no society in the history of the people, in human history, that was not without crime. It won't be ours either. But it is precisely a responsibility, a democratic, smart state that, by means of various methods or laws, and by introducing even new institutions, tries to bring this crime down to a socially tolerated extent. I don't think Mr. Secretary will be offended by this definition of mine that's laymanic in that domain. So crime can be socially tolerated, to some extent socially tolerated, and this bill of criminal procedure, Mr. Markovic, is exactly what it is and is exactly what we talked about here yesterday, a strategy this ministry of justice, and this government, and this assembly has been going on two years ago. This is just a follow-up, and these are new solutions, which are very comprehensively mentioned today by Mr. Minister and MPs of the DSS, just the introduction of new institutes, new practices in criminal proceedings, i.e. at this time in the Code of Criminal Procedure, are exactly foreseen and count on their application of this crime rate in Serbia to bring to a bearable extent. I'm undermining the criminal code again. Why the code? Because mostly and almost in general it regulates the rules of procedure, means procedural rules, which until now Serbia has not had. It is only now that the criminal code is passed, and a month ago we passed the Criminal Code, so that what some others had promised many years ago this assembly would bring to the Ministry's proposal and this current government. There are no criticisms on the bill and on solutions based on any legal theory, any practice, any social moment and social relations in Serbia. All the criticisms are calculated on purely political arguments, day-to-day policy or I don't know which. There's no expert criticism. Professional critics are those who came from professional organisations and who have positively expressed themselves and, why not say, those international organisations who have positively declared themselves to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'd give a lot more time to present the criminal code, but what's important and what I'm underlining is that this law and other laws are part of the strategy we discussed yesterday and I expect this assembly to be ready and will adopt the drafts of the law in the day to vote. What has to be said, and what is less said in the statements of my fellow MPs, and what is likely to be known and in general, less said Mr. Minister, a few words about the law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, judges and prosecutors, who, as such, received a number of unwarranted criticisms. Because some MPs pointed out that the judges, or lawyers, after obtaining a degree or placing on a judicial or prosecutorial post, no longer needed education, or the acquisition of new knowledge, or training, either theoretical, or practical knowledge. It is undeniable that both during the appointment and during the course of the judicial career, whether a judge or prosecutor, professional training is necessary for the holders of these judicial functions, in accordance with the laws currently in force, as well as in line with the judicial reform strategy. It is necessary, and we know this under the current law, that a working relationship is based on courts for three years, and that after two years a judicial exam can be passed. These are the first three years after which the High Council of Justice takes its decision or after the amendment under the strategy High Council of the judiciary. It is then necessary for judges, public prosecutors and public prosecutors' deputies to professionally improve in the theoretical and practical knowledge and skills needed to perform their functions independently, professionally and efficiently. In this bill, training is either initial or permanent. The training is also voluntary, which means that it is not the obligation of the judge, the public prosecutor or the deputy public prosecutor to attend that training, because in practice each of the public office holders will be alive interested in following up on new knowledge, to acquire new knowledge, because it will define it in further progress. Therefore, the exception is provided for volunteering only in the event of a change in specialisation, i.e. significant changes in regulations and the introduction of new techniques of work. I wouldn't explain any closer what it means, it's if from one specialist activity, let's say the judge moves on to another, then it's normally necessary to acquire knowledge from that section, or if there's a law that will significantly change any application, whether the institute, or any procedure, and therefore it's also necessary to acquire new knowledge. Initial training, besides assistant judges and prosecutors, is also used by judicial officials. I would say that the holders of judicial duties, or function, appear as users of initial training only if they did not use initial training as judge and prosecutorial assistants. Therefore, both the law and the logical order established that this training is continued and that the largest number, i.e. almost all holders of judicial functions, either at the beginning, or during the course of their work, have, or pass that training. As regards the training programme, the High Council of Justice lays down the initial training programme on the proposal of the Training Commission, and the Judicial Centre for Training and Professional Training determines the ongoing training programmes. The initial training is determined by the High Council of Justice, I repeat, and the Judicial Centre, which is foreseen as a solution to the positive regulations, determines the ongoing training programmes. Permanent training is just training that takes place continuously and is carried out on certain issues, and supervision of the duration of permanent training is carried out by the High Council of Justice. I paid attention to this law precisely because it was the least word for it. These solutions are not something that is unknown in legal practice or in Serbia's positive regulations, as Article 17. The bill found that on the date of entry into force of this law, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia ceases to determine and prescribe the types and ways of professional training of judges, referred to in Articles 28 and 41. Law on the regulation of courts and of Article 8(2) The law on judges, and on the date of entry into force of this law, ceases the jurisdiction of the Republic Public Prosecutor to determine and prescribe the types and methods of professional training, which means that the solutions are not new, is only a more consistent development of the principles set out in yesterday's proposal for a strategy and established by positive regulations. Therefore, in the end, I can point out, to my satisfaction, that these laws from the domain of justice, which the Ministry of Justice, currently and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have given to the adoption of the National Assembly, that we are the closest to entering the EU from that part of the circle, I am responsibly saying. Also, that part, the normative part, is closest to the solutions given in EU countries. Once again, given the throw-offs, we've done a big job and we'll finish the big deal by passing the law. We have no less important and no less difficult work to do, which is that in legal practice, to introduce into social life, i.e. to apply these European laws that we are making today. Therefore, citizens will understand these efforts, because they are out of their minds and there is no need to discuss whether the state of crime is good or bad in the judiciary. Only this government and the ruling majority in this congregation are trying to change the situation for the better. These laws are one step in this effort and one step is necessary and necessary which, I am convinced, will reduce the crime rate in the foreseeable period by a significant percentage. Therefore, both the strategy and the law on criminal proceedings and these other laws, as I have said and the law on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and judicial and prosecutorial assistants, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, should be accepted without doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26338	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and if there is any time left during MP Milan Stevovic. Nine minutes is available for the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26339	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs of the SRS always have a problem with time. There is little time left for them, while MPs from other parliamentary groups also have a problem with time, because one comes out, talks for five minutes and then ends up, and they don't use that time. I suggest, Mr. President, that this time they don't use, leave it to us and we will use it wisely. I have two remarks, before I start, even though there's little time left, Mr. Cvetkovic now that I've walked past him and asked him, what the hell are you talking about, that's my opinion, but I don't agree with him. Secondly, about the EU, and while you bring us Mr Cvetkovic to the EU, the EU will either fall apart or everyone will come out of it, and we will be there again. I have very little time, Mr. Minister, but I hope to get the amendment, because we have over 50 amendments and by these amendments we will according to every member of this law. What can be said for this law and for all the laws in principle, and that is, it is good that the National Assembly adopts system laws. It is not right that every bill that comes before the National Assembly is three times worse than that law that was already there. This is where you bring in the provocator agent, this is Orwell's 84, right? So now on the street, in the neighborhood, in the pub, at the godfather's, you're keeping an eye on the godfather, maybe the godfather's a provoking agent. You bring in an undercover investigator, you bring in an associate witness, all spy to agent and vice versa. What are you making of this country, Mr. Minister, what are you doing with justice? There's a lot of members I'm going to talk about, because I've been putting out the sheets so I don't lose, but when we start with the amendments in particular, then we'll have time to talk about all this. This law does not lead to Europe but to Stalin's gulag, leads to Goli Island, Tito's 48. Something like this won't go away, and if it does, it won't last more than two or three months, until the next election. After the next election, we, as the ruling party, will hold you as a little bit of water on your palm until you evaporate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26340	Here you are, Petar Cvetkovic, mentioned in a negative context. I'm still asking people to be aware that they have to use their time and not try in other people's time to do anything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26341	I'm sorry, unfortunately, I have to take this, because Mr. Markovic said, I don't think it's an insult to say, a lie or a lie. I didn't say anything, and I'm supposed to say I disagree with what I'm saying. It's out of your mind, the citizens know that. Mr. Markovic, you tell one lie, repeat the lie over and over again, and you think everyone believes. You might believe yourself. Do you trust yourself, so when you managed to say this now, I confirmed that you asked me, so I said I don't believe what I'm saying. It's out of your mind. That I don't agree with myself, is that right? That's out of your mind, and that's what you have to say. That's why I'm not looking forward to it. Such untruths and the carrying out of such falsehoods are nothing more than a proof of infirmity.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26342	This was a replica. Thank you. Please, Mr Stevović, MP Milan Stevović, take care, as you only have eight minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that a lot has been presented today on the Code of Criminal Procedure and on the rest of the set of laws that have been joined into a single debate. I think the MPs of the SRS have given arguments for and against these standards. However, I have to mention only one fact, which is that when we discussed the previous Code of Criminal Procedure, we also talked about the fact that what was then proposed really should not be proposed, but that one effective codification of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be brought together. Then we heard the argument that it was a good legal proposal, that there was no shortage and that it had to be adopted. I personally said here at the pay phone that we would discuss the new criminal code very quickly. Today we have the opportunity to talk about it, and today we have absorbed this topic and we have seen that this criminal code has a great deal of scarcity. What I would particularly apostrophe, this is the previous criminal procedure that existed in the Criminal Procedure Code, is now being broken down into certain continents, and in this case the previous investigation is segregated from the previous proceedings, where investigations, indictments, review of the indictment and the main proceedings are segregated. If we have defined the prosecutor as we predicted yesterday by the strategy, I believe that the prosecution remains an organ of prosecution on the one hand, and that this criminal case is solely tied to the case of the court. Now these two functions, two roles, we kind of mix it up on purpose. If we're saying that the prosecutor can conduct an investigation, then why are we giving him the right to speak to the judge and to entrust him with certain investigations? I didn't understand this concept, and I can't explain it to myself if we're taking everything into the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor's office, so why can something be entrusted to the court? Which will be the actions in the explanation are not listed. I tried to simulate a particular example, but I didn't come up with the idea that in certain cases it could compensate the role of a prosecutor by acting in certain investigative actions of an investigative judge. What I particularly want to stress, which is that we are putting this previous investigation or previous investigation in charge of this proposal to the police authorities, and we know that until now, when this case was in the jurisdiction of the court, there have been many shortcomings and many objections. I must also point out that in this procedure, what is set aside from the evidence is very often disputed and later segregated from the case file before the court. I don't know how this is going to happen now if we put everything that's been done in a pre-criminal procedure in the jurisdiction of the police authorities, or the prosecution. I'm talking here first of all about one legal certainty and what they are and what they're not evidence. While I'm at it, I'd like to mention just a few things about evidence stores. When it comes to this evidence store, I have to say that the secret, sound and optical surveillance of the suspect, the provision of simulated business services, the conclusion of simulated legal transactions, the involvement of an undercover investigator, controlled delivery, automatic accounting, etc. are certain evidence actions that are absolutely known in both European and world law. However, I would like to stress only one fear, one general concern that these institutes, which have not applied ex-legislatives to us so far, have encountered certain abuses and I fear that, and if we legally do them, that we have legislation, that we will again be in a position to abuse such evidence. In that case, although they are intended as evidence, they will be able to be disputed in criminal proceedings and particularly in appeal proceedings. That is why I felt that a more detailed regulation of all these evidence actions and clear crystalling as evidence in criminal proceedings could come up with an optimal solution and find a compromise solution between the ruling European norms, even world norms, regarding these evidence actions and what has been with us so far, or what has existed as a practice. Whether something can be evidence in criminal proceedings, it's a theoretical question, but first of all, we need to clearly determine how and how, on what occasions and when this evidence can be obtained. We can't just tie them to a certain degree of crime or to a form of crime, but we have to explain them right in the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as in how, who does them, who approves them, etc. There are words about it, but it's not enough in a precise way. As for preparations for the main search and invitations, I would just like to point out that we really need to follow some of the world's and European trends and say that the call should not be made in just that classic way, but we have to count and that there will be deadlines here. And in case of missing deadlines, we had to regulate that legal institute called "returning into a previous state" or "so-called." restitution, because indeed people, even though they have computers, although they are served by e-mail, can very often happen that they do not receive the call in a timely manner and therefore miss certain actions. I think in this codification of the Code of Criminal Procedure there was room for something to say about this too. Since time is running out, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26344	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right? No, I don't. ) Here you are, Minister Stojkovic has asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26345	I'll just answer a few questions. Here it is said, one part of the solution was taken from the previous Code of Criminal Procedure. That's right. It is the law that Professor Grubač worked as a working group chief in 2002, but I have to tell my colleague, Peter Jojic, that what is good never changes, but changes what is not good and what can be improved. The other thing I wanted to point out is the next thing. It says here there's no need to change the law, it's good old, and we all realize there's a crime problem, even says a lot of cases stand and stretch. So we have to make a deal -- either it's a good situation so we can leave it standing, or we have to do something to change it. We felt that we needed to do something and change, to remove those distractions that gave us the opportunity to carry out a faster and more efficient procedure to prevent crime. It is also said that there is no need for the training of judges and why judges should be trained. I'm going to give you one piece of information, and it was undeniable, that the courts were essentially unsupervised and were quite unskilled in their work. They are unskilled in their work, and on the other hand, it is causing an increase in impeccability and we have agreed that we should do something to improve both the urgency and quality of the courts. I've had the opportunity to see all the reports of the courts, so I can give you the information that you have, for example, courts or departments of individual courts where you move the number of judgments that have been abolished from 30 percent to 60 percent and some percent. There's something we have to do to fix this situation. It is absolutely certain that one education should be conducted, not only the initial one, but also the permanent one, because it has proved that all these judges who are today are permanently elected, but that is not enough, obviously neither follow enough regulations nor perfect themselves. So we have to do something to remove it. I was transferred when I said I wasn't in politics. I was very specific, and I said I don't do politics in terms of day-to-day political events. Otherwise, if this government has said that we need to introduce legality as the highest category and laws that we will all behave under, then my approach to doing these jobs is in the broadest sense of politics and implementing the policy that the Government has set out. Also, an insinuation has been made where I attach myself to Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I hope that, first of all, wasn't serious, because I don't see how to find a resemblance between me and a man who has a pathological need to tell a lie. For days, you could have followed the untruth that the alleged trial for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, led by Judge Kljajevic, was reportedly going slowly because Minister Stojkovic did not give the funds to come from Visbaden. I've denied it, but some written presses, bodes and electronic media continue to repeat that lie, and they don't want to publish the denials. I just wanted to show you here, to reassure whoever did the insinuation, please, three months ago it's been said, people, bring solutions, set the costs, it should be paid out of the vault. I don't know what he was or how he was, but he shouldn't have tied me to him in any context. And finally one thing that matters to me. In this debate that was really quality and content, I see two attitudes crystallizing. Those discussions that challenge this change are actually talking about the following -- that there should be no investigative and investigative procedure to give the prosecutors to lead it. In all these discussions, Petar Jojic said most precisely. Maybe it could, but we're not ready for it yet. If we have the fact that the people are unsatisfactory and, as they would say, a coward for ineffectiveness of the court, because of insufficient authority and the means to deal with the crime that has appeared, then I must ask: when will it be time for us to do something. We have to start working. In that sense, by introducing a new principle of investigation and investigation, we gave the so-called Vaccio legis for a year, so that these very organs can prepare and start working. At the same time we had in mind, these things are changing now, but earlier there were objections to the limitation of the length of detention. Right now, let me say that I've seen the amendment and we've agreed to go back to that classic system -- that every two months the court checks out if there's any reason to extend the detention. I have to draw attention to one thing: whether it's limited to a year, two, five, six or ten, it's always said that it can't go beyond that. If we introduce this classic principle, which, in my opinion, is correct, but for courts that can properly judge and enforce the law, it would be fine. But what if the courts don't work like they don't, so it can take 10 and 12 years, will the court always question whether there's room or not? In that sense, just to draw attention to why this restriction was introduced. I think this amendment will be adopted and it will be returned. So if we had a situation like this, where we essentially agree why, on the one hand, they don't think we should accept this principle of prosecution, I don't think that's enough reason that those organs aren't best prepared. It's a long deadline for law enforcement, there's plenty of time to prepare, and on the other hand, the condition is that it requires it to be done. It has to be more efficient and faster. I have to tell my colleague there's been a little confusion here. He was pulled out of context one part, so Mr. Markovic said something, and when you take it out of context of a word, sentence or part, then you can make it very easy from the Bible to make Main Camp when you get him into another context. If that wasn't clear to him, I'd give him information, it was a classic Stalinist method, that's how it was done. So we shouldn't do that, we should really stick to the facts. One more thing that's very important to me. It was said - Minister Stojkovic was carrying out the warrant, so then I couldn't understand, I might get an explanation later, at one point in America, and at another point in Europe. So it's said -- if we go through America, then we're going to disrupt the European system and concept, and then they say it's for Europe, so she's your boss. Now I'm left in a dilemma about who my boss is. Now that I've heard that question carefully, I'll answer it, so you won't be in a dilemma about who's boss. We've all learned on continental law and this law is basically continental type, but continental law, even those countries you call upon, France has a complete process, where they work in research centres, you have Germany, which you want me to name, move on to this more efficient and better system and method of work. They adopted this, a European-continental right to install certain instruments that once existed only in Anglo-Saxon, but they installed them. We are doing one thing here to ensure a better, more efficient and faster deal with crime, and to protect citizens' rights in this process. If we're supposed to do this, we don't need a boss. That's what we need, and we're doing this for us. It's completely meaningless what Europe is doing, because if we stick to what Europe is doing, I'll tell you right now, they've gone one step further in the prosecution's investigation, and there's not even an investigative judge here. We are still a country in transition and should have certain protection. That's why one piece of authority was left to an investigative judge. I hope we all agree here. The situation is that, something needs to be changed, so we can fix the situation and have what to use to fight this crime, which is increasingly organised, increasingly complex, and criminal groups are increasingly equipped and more active. Therefore, we must provide it to the state, and to the citizens, if we want to protect them. For these reasons, I would ask you to accept this, if the thesis has already been made that this is not the time to apply, believe me, it is the time and we have to apply it, if we want to make a proper and orderly society. For these reasons, I propose that this law be passed, noting that a number of amendments will be accepted, because they do contribute to improving the text of this law and its accuracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-09-0.u26346	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. I am concluding a joint principled investigation into the Code of Criminal Procedure, Proposal for Law on the Training of Judges, Public Prosecutors, Deputy Prosecutors and Judges and Prosecutors' Assistants and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. After we've completed the original search, please announce today, the extension is tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. by a united search of the fifth and sixth points of the agenda. Thank you for your responsibility. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that, according to that, we can start working day. I'd like to inform you that no one has signed up to be absent. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move on to a joint principle search of the 5th and 6th points of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF ARBITATION LAW AND SPECIAL AUTHORITIES FOR Efficient PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT OF INTELLECTUAL PUBLICATION Unanimity Decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the law in accordance with points 5 and 6 and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes 24 seconds, for European Serbia, five MPs – 6 minutes, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs, three independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I am informing that the only authorised representative, therefore the exception as an authorised representative, is in front of the G17 parliamentary group plus MP Milka Silajev. In case there is any need for other powers, they will certainly be tolerated. I am opening a joint principled search on the draft law on arbitration and the draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. At the same time, I am informing you, pursuant to Rule 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure, today we will work as long as necessary, until the end of the united principle debate of paragraphs 5 and 6 and tomorrow from 10.00, in case we finish early today, we will continue the united principle debate on points 7, 8, 9 and 10. Does the proposal's representative, Dr Milan Parivodic, minister of economic relations with abroad, want a word? Yeah. )
