ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28837	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. She was prevented from attending the meeting of the People's Messenger of the Life-dark Dacin. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DEVIZAL BUSINESS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Zoran Antić, Radiša Ilic, Miljko Četrović, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Marković, Stevica Dedjanski, Dragoljub Anastasovski, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Bozidar Koprivica, Vojislav Milajić, Petar Jojić, Milan Stevović, Milivove Vuković, Milan Škrbić and Momcilo Duvnjak. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an opinion on the amendments submitted. You received a report from the Finance Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law implemented by the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28838	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the public, I would like to say at the beginning that today we are doing the opposite of the provisions of Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and this article 87... Mr. Mikhailovich, I'm not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, I'm just telling the public. About the breach of the Rules of Procedure we spoke yesterday, you made some interpretation of yourself, and I'm not asking that after what I'm about to say again you're giving an interpretation, which is certainly not good, but for the sake of the public, we're doing the opposite of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today. In Article 87. The Rules of Procedure provide for a representative of the Government to participate in the work of the National Assembly. When it comes to the draft foreign trade law, the government has informed us that its representative is Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. He showed up here yesterday for five minutes and disappeared untraceable. We got some information that he went to Ireland. If he went to Ireland or wherever he went abroad to find that Trizon, then we won't be mad that he's not here today. And to remind also who the Trizon is -- it's one of Tadic's top financiers, who disappeared from one of the district court courts in Belgrade and fled with 27m euros that he stole. So if Dinkic went there to find his friend Tadic that financier of his Trizon and to bring him back to Serbia in front of justice and competent courts, then let him travel, but if he went to another job, let's say he went there to transfer that money from Cyprus he took, then it's certainly not good. So, in any case, it is necessary to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to speak here with a representative of the Government, regardless of what we have the Government's opinion on our amendments. When in a few moments I get to talk about the amendment and the government's opinion, then you'll see how unserious the government is when it gives an opinion on the amendments of the MPs. That's why the minister had to be here and listen to the MPs and our views, which is why we have submitted a certain amendment. This is the most important obligation of every government representative and cannot have any obstacle from attending and participating in the work of the National Assembly. Article 4 The draft foreign exchange law has four positions. My amendment refers to the position of the 1st member. The Government’s proposal is that the resident of the means of payment on the basis of the export of goods or services be introduced into the Republic within 180 days of the date of export customs duty of the goods, i.e. from the date of delivery of the service. This is very imprecise, and it doesn't really mean anything, and it doesn't commit anyone to anything. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment and suggested that Article 4(1) states that the resident of the payment means, therefore, of the funds made on the basis of the export of paid goods, that is also the change, is to be made to the Republic within 180 days of the date of export duty of the goods, i.e. from the date on which the service was carried out. This amendment is in fact a precision of this definition in Article 4 and speaks of that a person who deals with foreign trade has an obligation that the funds that are income from that external trade enters the Republic, of course, only if those funds are actually charged. We don't need any fictitious means, we need real resources. This amendment and all our amendments speak of our principled position that this government's proposal for a foreign exchange law is actually a proposal for a law that was made for foreign banks, not for Serbian citizens, and that is our principled objection that we discussed in the principle debate on this law. So, I propose that this amendment be accepted, because it represents a precision, I would say even a legal-technical order, but above all, the precision and concreteisation of the obligation of residents, because the definition of the law itself does not really mean anything, obliges no one, and no one has any use for such a formalised attitude, actually creates opportunities for a number of abuses, to deceive citizens of Serbia by carrying out any statistical data, where we will have some fixed amounts presented, concerns some amounts that represent fiction, and are not really charged. I repeat, I propose that this amendment be adopted by the SRS, as is all our amendments. If you want this proposal of the foreign exchange law to really make sense and if you want to finally pass some law for the citizens of Serbia, then accept our amendments. I am stressing again to you who have not read this bill, and above all I am saying this for the sake of the public of Serbia, if without our amendments the draft foreign exchange law is adopted, then we will get one law that the finance minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia have made for their friends, for foreign banks that have waved in Serbia. It's the result of the destruction of Serbian banks, it was a long time ago, but it's not forgotten. So in order to get a solid text of the law, I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28839	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28840	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the very least, it is odd only the government's argument why it does not accept this amendment, it is said in Article 4(1) that the funds are charged. You know, when the laws are written, there's nothing, but it's written and it's written in the law, because the question is when and how and how the ministry, or the state body, is going to interpret the law. The opinions of the ministries are not binding. We even had a situation where a completely different interpretation has the Republic Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance by the same thing. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance interprets, i.e. it feels that something is exempt from the tax on goods and services, and the Tax Administration makes up a solution to which it is acting in the administrative procedure and implements it until the end. So a person's opinion or meaning has to be written in the law. What the SRS most resents is that the foreign exchange law is solely written and so conceived that it simply demotives exports in a certain way. These funds collected by export will most often be used, through business banks, by the sale of these funds for dinars, by importers. In this way, it makes it difficult and prevents the free exchange of goods and services in foreign trade, when it comes to exporters themselves. You see the first restriction in Article 6, where it is said: "The resident - legal person can make the business of exporting goods and services extremely charge for the realised import of goods and services only under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the Government. "What if the Government does not prescribe that way or what if that way is not written, that instruction, that sublaw, as you will call it, simply does not put the exporter himself in an equal position. So, to import the goods, it's enough to get a spreadsheet from abroad, to hand it over to a business bank, she'll buy the foreign exchanges and pay the goods. In the case of an exporter, the procedure is special for him and he is therefore already in a more unfavourable position than a clean importer who imports goods and services into the territory of the Republic. I guess we should help those who export goods be motivated to do it even more, so let's even later import some other goods from abroad, rather than companies dealing with clean imports of their work. This is the problem when such laws are written, as if imports into Serbia had to be completely free, and when it comes to exports and the collection of funds made on the basis of the export of goods, there should be certain restrictions for the importing gentlemen to continue to benefit from foreign exchanges and thus earn extra profit. It is a problem of one of these laws, and this binding part, means – the resident of the means of payment based on the export of goods or services enters the country within 180 days; and what if he did not charge that goods, that service, and you say here that it is understood. Nothing can be understood, it has to be written in law. The approach to such a law in this way only gives more and more rights to import the import lobby, namely to carry out its action to the detriment of Serbia's economy. Excessive imports, you should know, we're destroying domestic economy. Since you've been in power, gentlemen, the external trade deficit has never been higher, and this law will only increase it further.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28841	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28842	Maybe a few words about the import and export lobby. We are here talking about the deadlines for the introduction of the foreign trade business, i.e. after the exports have been made. Exporters are not only treated with a time limit for the entry of foreign exchanges. The previous deadline for the exchange of foreign exchanges was 90 days. Now, the 180-day deadline, of course, is precisely because it was concerned that the commercial conditions on the market that our country is working with most, I am talking about the European market, are such that it is possible not to charge within 90 days, because business partners are making it impossible. That deadline has been extended to 180 days and, of course, it is possible not to charge, but then it crosses a line called serious business. It is then called a serious business problem, and it is not being resolved by foreign exchange law, but rather being resolved by other procedures and talks with a partner who has nothing to do with the foreign exchange law. If someone pays advance goods to foreign exchanges he bought from a business bank, he is also obliged to make imports after the advance payment made within the same deadline, within 180 days. So the National Bank controls these deadlines. Completely identical, if someone doesn't charge export goods or if the goods he paid up front don't import within that time limit, it's obvious he has a problem. The problem comes out of the framework of foreign exchange law and is called the business problem of whoever works. When it comes to exporters and their incentive to export more than an extension of a period that is completely rational, exporters have been given the possibility to another member of the law called the purchase of claims to make their claims through business banks from foreign partners so realised and to have a larger turnover of funds. These deadlines we're talking about, of course, come out of every commercial deadline. If it takes anyone six months... We're not talking about intensive branches where production deadlines are long, where investment is large and capital, we're talking about branches where a more serious twist is needed. Six months is enough for someone to charge their goods, and it's too small to have that kind of work only twice a year. So, exporters are stimulated by this extension to have a more serious, more operational commercial bargaining with their partners and to negotiate business quality, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have this part that relates to factoring that allows them to have a faster trade and the state will buy out their claims, i.e. business banks and other businessmen. The G17 Plus MP group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28843	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28844	My colleague, Raca, spoke about the amendment, but I felt that her discussion was about what my colleague Arsic and I were talking about, and that's why I think I should say a few things, just for the sake of clarity, for the sake of the public, because we were very clear and I don't believe that the colleague didn't hear it. No one spoke of a 180-day period and no one said that the deadline was neither long nor short. That's not the point of the amendment. The point of the amendment is to disable a fictitious charge, or something that actually does not exist. The law cannot say that the resident of the means of payment based on the export of goods etc. the introduction into the Republic within a period of time, but must be stressed that the funds have been made available. There's nothing in the law that can be assumed. That's the essence of our amendment. So the law has to be precise, decided and clear. Now we're guessing if someone's gonna do it or not, and what happens next? Of course, we all know that in some unfinished business, that is to say, disrespecting any contractual side of a contract concluded, it is perfectly normal for the next step to the judiciary, or jurisdictional court. Most often the jurisdiction of a court is agreed upon. If not, it's a law of jurisdiction. It is interesting what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has said why it does not accept this amendment. The government says, "The amendment is not accepted because only the funds charged on the basis of the export of goods and services are imported into the Republic, so the amendment is unnecessary. "We said that only the funds charged on the basis of exports of goods and services are being imported into the Republic. It is the essence of our amendment and actually the government has only confirmed that the amendment is in place, but of course it is unclear why the amendment is not accepted. It's amazing this last part of the sentence where the government says "so the amendment is unnecessary". How can the government say that an amendment by a MP is unnecessary? The government has to make an argument why the amendment cannot be accepted, and if the amendment were unnecessary, you know, it's really an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly and the People's Parliament, and that should never happen. So I repeat again that this would be a good thing if Mladjan Dinkic were here. We will forgive him for not being here if he went to the white world to find this Tadic's chief financier, a thief like Tadic himself, the one that fled Serbia with 27m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28845	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28846	Ireland and Cyprus are on different sides, one country is in the south, the other is in the north. There's no resemblance. Okay, it can count. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law and we are asking for an amendment to add a new position 3 after Article 2, which reads: "If a resident is unable to fulfil the obligations of Article 2 of this Article, within 30 days of the date of the expiry of the term laid down in Article 1, the court shall initiate the court proceedings in order to recover the amount paid in advance." Of course, this isn't accepted either. However, Article 4 and Article 5 make up one whole, although Article 4 refers to the payment of claims on the basis of exports of goods and services where the deadline moves from 90 days to 180 days. I think it's a bad solution. Why is it a bad solution? It cannot be done on the basis of certain jobs that, by nature, things should last six, seven or eight months to draw out a rule for the most ordinary commercial jobs, which do not require much preparation, transactions by the transge-fang system. The extension of the deadline will be used by the masters who do these jobs in all systems in one luxuriant way. If there was a need to extend the time limit for the exchange of foreign exchanges due to the specificity of a job and the nature of a long-term job, then it is a completely different situation. The exception should be placed in a special member so that those applying the law know when to apply that 180-day period. You're this way... Apparently, the economy is looking for; it is, but the economy is this Trizon, the economy is Nekerman, the economy is every other fucker. You can't create conditions based on them alone. It is known within which time normal export transactions are charged. I agree with exporting services that the deadlines are always much longer, because they are practically construction workers working abroad, so the charge goes in some time frames according to the accounting situations. This is a completely different situation, which is normally regulated by a special member, but Articles 4 and 5 aim to promote the principle. You've basically gone beyond what's common. So that deadline you raised to 180 days as a rule, I think it's wrong. I'm going back to Article 5. Article 5 solves the situation where a domestic legal or natural person in an external trade business has paid for goods or services in advance. What is the situation, and within what time should this foreign trade business be closed, that is to say, that the goods from abroad should come or do the service with us? You've generally been here for 180 days. We didn't want to cover that part with the amendment. Mrs. Radeta explained nicely to you why we didn't want to spoil it, but we're distracting you that this could be a problem. Unlike Article 4, when charging something, goods or services that went outside our customs line, when it comes to export business, Article 5 regulates so-called. Import jobs and advance payments. In Article 2, which is not covered by the amendment, it is said – if this 180-day period is exceeded, then our resident who has paid advancely, unless he justifies this foreign trade business within five days, is obliged to return funds in advance of the amount paid. We only define another situation with a new attitude 3 which is in practice possible. In practice, it is possible if some, as one put it, is a serious business problem that is not subject to the interest of foreign exchange law. I can't accept that attitude, we gave, in the end, one excuse for why the deadline was exceeded, so we even gave some period of one month, in which our resident has to prove that he started the appropriate court procedure to collect, or recover the funds that he paid up advancely when he started the operation. I think that should have been accepted. However, in the government's explanation, one solution has been given that this law does not require someone to initiate court proceedings. This law does not require the initiation of a court case, but just to remind you that the National Assembly in a 250 - law group has passed some laws specifically stating that court proceedings must be initiated. We had a Code of Criminal Procedure a few months ago, where it was said that the prosecutor had to make a statement of appeal against the acquittal. I can't compare these two norms, but that was just a violation of constitutionality and legality, so this excuse that the government is using not to accept this amendment is highly unacceptable. We didn't cover the amendment deadlines of 180 days. You've made a big mistake here, because you've made it possible for a comfortable time period for someone to hold funds abroad both in one and the other versions of Articles 4 and 5. In Article 4, he exported goods and services, perhaps also charged and kept on his accounts, and in Article 5, he can make a fictitious contract that he had ordered, he has a 180-day deadline and as he enters our accounting system, as it enters the balance sheet and balance sheet of success, until as a total income comes and registers, you have made it possible to carry out foreign exchanges from the country and now it has become legal legal work. It is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is this finance minister, it is the concept of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, this long-term government since 2000 -- foreign exchanges can be made, foreign exchanges should not be here. Since this is a much broader topic than that covered by the provisions of the foreign exchange law, I have to draw your attention – sometimes when this country appreciated its means of payment, and it's called a dinar and thank God it's still called a dinar, and because of the policy of that and then the SFRY and the National Bank of SFRY, there were significant deviations, so it was so-called. positive and negative exchange rates, then obviously there was a need for a serious foreign exchange law with sound norms that they prescribed, and just to remind you that some of the sherpaes were dragged back in 1984; with dinar and foreign currency, someone practically ran for their participation in a business life, so it was known from exports in different periods that sometimes the exporter could use 50 or 60 percent of its foreign exchange inflow, because our market was unique. When the balance of the balance of payments or when the correct policy of the dinar course is conducted then the jag is not the same as it used to be. However, we now have a problem with the fact that all these foreign currency assets are located in the so-called so-called so-called currency. illegal traffic, because legal traffic would require a strong economy, and that's not with us. The final phase of the devastated economy was created thanks to Labus and Kostunica, who agreed in November 2000 to form crisis headquarters, to enter companies. You can see how the evolution of the destruction of the Republic of Serbia, the economic structure and the economic potential of the Republic of Serbia is going. The deadlines are now being extended from 90 to 180 days, because the issue of the exchange has become irrelevant because everyone can buy freely in the foreign exchange bank and is accounted for, as it is so free, it can do anything and anything, it needs to be possible to liberalise. Yesterday, I was talking about how the co-production and directing liberalisation of some who designed Nekerman and Kwelle based in Belgrade, Dejan Simic and the company, and 60m euros and some million euros were sucked out of this country through phantom companies. Of course, Labus got much less than he planned in that system and had to leave G17 plus. It's now rising to 180 days. To enable my faithful fans to attack me, to just draw attention to the fact that members of the 4th and 5th have one legal and technical problem, and even a mental problem, because by text they are contrary to the basic concepts that the Government defined in Article 2, so that if Articles 4 and 5 are read, then it is evident that the legislator does not know what payment funds are, what are foreign payment funds. That logic he applied in Articles 4 and 5 falls short of the definition of these terms in Article 2 of their draft law, but since it is private laws from the Ministry of Finance and private co-productions, then no one can be surprised anymore. There's practically one job coming to an end here, apparently, and these are all some integrations, this is all in some system. I don't know what the end of that system is going to be, but I certainly know that this is how designed development is and this is how the system of accession is very painful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. After all, you have the opportunity to notice daily that these and these discussions in general in the National Assembly no longer interest anyone in this country, or even journalists who once stationed outside this hall. No one cares about what is done in the National Assembly, what laws are proposed, what laws are passed. Citizens have become immune, nothing can shock them anymore, they know in advance that every law for them is worse than the previous law. You can see that there is hardly a single sentence in the paper today about those discussions that were held yesterday, which concerned free zone law, Nekerman, of this free zone -- the Serbian presidency and these tycoons that created it. Why? Three media organisations in Serbia define the appearance of the first party and the first news on all media, and that's the end of the story. This few people who follow the transfer every day are finding out more and more about the devastating policy of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who is challenging the opposition, and after two months they get the strength, they figure out, and they recognize everything the opposition has warned them in time. No one's shocked anymore, but he's surprised by the amount of infection in the government, and it's called unintelligence.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28847	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The foreign exchange law that the SRS is extremely dissatisfied with, since it means, above all, further liberalisation of payment flows and will allow such a thin capital that has an economy of Serbia to be further lost. There is no doubt that this law is on a very slippery ground and that it can and can have an important impact on our country's payment deficit, on the external trade deficit, which is this big. In addition to the fact that we have small exports in absolute amounts, this law will create conditions for the external trade deficit to be even greater. I think it's very dangerous to keep borrowing our country. Obviously, by further liberalising foreign exchange payments, we can first of all significantly affect private debts and that this amount of borrowing will be significantly higher than before, and the capital outflow that we have already had through bloated import invoices, possibly through some phantom companies, will be even greater. It will allow all tycoons, who have been robbing for several years everything left of Serbia's economy, to make it easier and more legal for those funds, which are both necessary for Serbia's economies, to get out of the country. As regards Article 6, it relates to the collection of goods and services by importing goods and services. Article 6 is very modest and this trade does not define at all, but leaves the possibility that conditions and ways are prescribed by the Serbian government, which is another major lack of this law. I was just saying that we have extremely modest exports, that this is also an opportunity to increase Serbia's exports. If we can't already have clean exports, even if the export of goods and services for the import of goods and services will certainly mean to our economy some discharge of the balance of payments, so it is inappropriate for the Serbian government to come up with such an unsettled proposal. There is the impression that the whole law is quite unarranged, that it is, in fact, a semi-law where neither an adequate analysis has been carried out nor that the effects of this law can be assumed, so we have come to the point that some 70 members, as far as this law has, make one fifth of the criminal and protective provisions that allow the Government, if things go wrong, to intervene. This best shows that it has entered into an adventure when it comes to the foreign exchange business of our country and how it is necessary that all institutes that are proposed by this law are defined closer and that participants, economic operators know under which conditions they enter into a business. This is the basic principle of some legal certainty and would mean, in any case, the possibility to improve the situation more significantly in our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28849	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28850	Article 6 The bill reads: "The resident - legal person can make the business of exporting goods and services extremely charge for the realised imports of goods and services only under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the Government. "The word "realized" is given as a final state, and then it's impossible to pair two final states, because this member should essentially have a completely different condition, but that's the problem with writing. What's the basic point of what we've been looking for with the amendment? The main point is to change this power of government, because here it is said "under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the Government". This is a classic job of compensation, beating – for as much as I exported, in that amount I import some other goods. I must say that this member should not be in this law, because this member regulates the form of foreign trade, and this is the foreign exchange business law that should apply to foreign exchange, payment, payment, etc. If you had put in this article that the Government of the Republic of Serbia prescribes a way of recording the value, because this is, however, foreign trade in both directions, which in some ways gives the true value of our payment traffic abroad, then that would be acceptable. There's nothing you can do about the matter of the Foreign Trade Act to put this dry and dry into foreign exchange law. It's just that there's no place for this member here. Of course it's not the government who could be authorized to prescribe all this. If something is prescribed by her, it's only one part likely, to be more precise, certainly only the part about recording that job, which has some value in exports, the value in imports. That's the whole story. However, when it comes to private law, it is written by a free text system, like a love letter or an essay about something. Well, then it starts, three fingers move the front row to the right, first letter large, I'd like to see, and then we move on, and then the next paragraph, means a list of nice desires, emotions, feelings. That's not how the law is written, but it has to be right. If you are in Article 1. The bill of law determine what is the subject of this law then Article 6 cannot exist in this law. It can be in the Foreign Trade Act, it can be in a somewhat different form in the Customs Act; it should appear in a foreign exchange, but in a completely different formulation that should indicate the way these two foreign trade transactions or one foreign trade business are recorded. This amendment requires that Mr Antic know in advance that exports will be charged by importing appropriate goods and services, not by changing legal status in the meantime, that he started with classical exports, so he could not collect his claims and then, as a form of payment of claims, the entry of goods appears. And you're giving us only those exceptional situations in your reasoning that no one will object to. No one will object to what you wrote in an explanation for Article 6: that there are corporations that have a two-way route of their business, towards abroad and abroad, so that there are long-term business partners who cooperate together, etc., etc., supply goods, this other returns goods, etc. No one's challenging you, we accept that, but the explanation of this member you gave doesn't give his fullness simply, and then when someone takes it a little more seriously what you wrote, and the SRS does it seriously, it's obvious that you've inserted a member whose place is not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28851	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a foreign exchange law with a proposal to delete Article 8. Article 8 of the basic intention is that the contract must state the actual price to which a payment is paid or to which the funds are transferred. The amendment proposes that Article 8 be deleted because the proposal for this article does not achieve anything concrete, or there is no guarantee that such a contract will be respected in accordance with this Article. Who can guarantee that the contract will be respected even though it has the price, or the amount indicated? Are there few cases that the contract has a smaller amount, a fictional amount, and most of the work ends with cash or, popularly, cash. There are countless such examples of invoiced goods from imports or those exported, because the price of goods is always agreed by the two sides. It will not mean anything if the contract lists a price that is not real only to comply with this legal procedure as referred to in Article 8. The contract itself doesn't have to represent the real state of things for those faces who deal in murky affairs. That's exactly what contracts prove that after a while begin to complement well-known annexes. This is not only the case with the conclusion of a contract on foreign trade, this is also the case when it comes to contracts that regulate the sale of many businesses in Serbia, and to foreign companies. What should not stand in the contract was in the annexes of the contract. There's all that's not supposed to get in the eyes. Take, for example. contracts concluded by the Belgrade city authority, or DS authorities, regarding the reconstruction of many streets in Belgrade. In the contract one price, and in the end with annexes it comes out a few times more. It just proves what the radicals have been saying long ago, that DS deals with many murky and dirty jobs that richly enrich some favorites of this yellow interest group. And, when some of the prices in the contract for performing certain jobs or services come into the public eye, the actors immediately call for a contract, and in fact, the contract is a fictitious price. Anexe is not mentioned or called upon because they are unknown to the interested public. Take, for example. The New Popovac cement factory case. Everyone's looking for a contract on that sale to study it and it's based on it to demand some of their rights, and there's nothing in it. Few people know that after the contract was concluded, 20 more annexes of that contract were made up of which rarely anyone has insight. Therefore, this Article 8 which is required to indicate the actual price in the contract, if it is obvious that it will not have any effect because there is still no precise legal mechanism that would prevent the non-compliance of that contract price. An outflow of money abroad can be prevented in other ways, but certainly not this way. So far, the affairs with which the executive figures have been linked have just shown how they are being held, where they are located and how money is being washed back in Serbia. The Caymans, the Marshalls and the Seashel Islands are just the current cells of that money and we see them when they show up here, and these people as buyers of profitable businesses. How significant this Article 8 would be to make the contract compulsory, the actual amount can best be considered in the case of former Prime Minister Prvoslav Davinic (when G17 plus), who has caused serious damage to Serbia by such contracts. Remember only contracts for renting an Israeli satellite – 45m euros, and obtaining military equipment worth hundreds of millions of euros. And what it's worth and what it's worth and that there's no amount in the contract if someone who's prone to criminal action has taken an important state position. Or the Trizon, who stole 27m euros; and to remind you, it was so valuable to the cosmetic cement factory. So he stole it from NIS, whether it was the price or not in the contract. He just finished his job. Unfortunately, there are those who, without a contract, are taking over huge sums of money, and this is an expert from the National Bank of Serbia such as Vice Governor Dejan Simic, who carries plastic bags with hundreds of thousands of euros as vegetables from the market. I call on MEPs to accept the SRS amendment to Article 8 in the voting day with a proposal to delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28853	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28854	Mr. Mikhailovich, I'm not going to pick up these affairs just for you, because then they're going to accuse you of being fascist. Please, Article 8 says this way: "The resident cannot pay, pay or issue a payment order, or carry out a transfer to the non-resident, on the basis of a non-real price contract", which determines the actual price, "or on the basis of untrue documents". Who determines whether the document is true or not? To these two questions when you get an answer, then you see how pointless what is written is, but it has its natural sequel, and that extension is Article 58. It is said: "Whoever executes a payment, payment or issues a payment order, or carries out a transfer of an uninhabited amount exceeding 100,000 euros, on the basis of a contract that does not specify a real price or on the basis of untrue documents, will be punished for a criminal offence in prison from one to ten years. An attempt to carry out an act referred to in Article 1 shall be punishable. "And we almost passed the Criminal Law, all crimes should be in that code. We don't want to see any criminal legislation scattered into 250 laws, because they're boasting that 250 laws have been passed. First problem: a ban on committing crimes exists; it is prescribed by both the Constitution and the Criminal Law. Why is that inserted in here? If you take this - 100,000 euros as a criterion, then someone can really ask a question – why haven't you arrested so far. As far as I know, I won't mention the names again for Mr. Vojislav Mihailovic's not to be called, but even the desert procedure suddenly can't be completed, 30-40 apartments, you don't know what it is; a normal man in his life, however he turns, can't make a million dollars. These were far better mathematicians and economists than Albianic calculated and came to accurate mathematics, that a man in his life span could legally make $1 million. Now, people are bragging about how rich they are, but they say like this -- don't ask me about the first million, and I'll tell you everything else, to the last dinar, how I earned it. It's some old Middle Eastern saying. So this is where you wrote a member on the system that one bar should scare the bear. How did you write it? It doesn't mean anything if someone doesn't write the real price. Who determines the real price? You saw for yourself, Draskovic voted on the phone for the Council of Ministers to sign a contract and then suffered poor Davinic neither guilty nor debt. Let's talk about these jobs around the Hamovic - Lazarevic store. Why don't you give that report to the Committee of Auditors for a look? Then why do you enter something like this when we know that it will be applied selectively in the beginning? So, the actual value, apparently some I.D., and just to remind you, before Article 8, there are members of the 4th and 5th, where you said, 180 days you've been amnested, in every way possible, no one can even suspect that you've come into the situation that you need to apply Article 8. Now, if those who are great experts didn't call us, they could turn over to the media in an hour -- radicals are asking for that member and that member to be erased, and that member is stopping it, and because radicals are looking for erasure, they're doing exactly for the expansion of that crime and that crime. That's not the story. The story is that you fight crime declared and selectively. Yesterday I read to you an hour and a half a report from the government of the Republic of Serbia, asking you to do what you wrote in your reports. Let's see when it's over. It won't end, I know the answer in advance, because you are no different from the government of Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic. Let me remind you that you're not different. Security Committee members had the opportunity to listen to what sessions used to look like during Zivkovic's government, so Batic says - I'll arrest this guy, he's a criminal, then Ceda says - if you touch him, then Mihajlovic will arrest this guy of yours. It's similar, identical in this government, except now this government has ten sponsors, ten separate, selected, arranged, divided, plots determined, this one for metals, this one for chemistry, this one for nutrition, this one to sell agricultural land to our eternal enemies, this one for this one, that one for that one. The flower of democracy, until one day you inform us – people, we have really lost the state, and we have done everything to preserve it, and since we have done everything, so we have not finished this work, it is now time for democracy to flourish, for us to leave power, for the will of the people to come, so let him rub his head on whether he will be able to cope with this chaos that you will leave behind. By the way, pretty stories, by the way, coalition capacity, everyone with every democracy in Serbia, except that Serbia is smaller and smaller, sicker, sadder, etc. It's the effect of your laws. On the basis of this article, I can confidently tell you that Karic will be arrested, but he will not be arrested by Hamovic. He's gonna be arrested, but he's not gonna be arrested for $27 million, as you said. In order to preserve this type of cohabitation, a balanced selection must be made, as on RTS, it is known, for five minutes, Vojislav Kostunica, the other five minutes of Tadic, and the rest are not important. Well, that's how it's gonna be, we're gonna get some Karic, we're gonna do some of this, we're gonna do some of that. Citizens, you know, as soon as the arrest takes place, so local elections are close, to create a strong message, this government is struggling sharply against crime. This should take as long as news through television as the media takes, very briefly, with strong emotions; of course, it is all foreclosed before the day of the local elections, practically changing the electoral will of citizens in this way and it is all democratic. I will come out a little more often, since I have a job as a member of the party, and I have great pleasure as an individual to expose this power that since October 5th cheers and dresses in Serbia, that I expose it across all segments, that it is naked, that it is clear to everyone in Serbia that nothing is right, that this with democracy has no idea, that these are just empty illusions to fool the citizens. Just to get the citizens to cheat, if they can at least turn one away from the SRS, they're satisfied. Now, that's the policy. That's why radicals from 10 to 18 hours each day on each amendment will make maximum use of the democratic assets of Predrag Markovic's parliamentaryism, again about the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28855	Mr. Krassic, you're out of time. Mr. Krasic, I thank you for your attempt to defend me against baseless accusations, but there's really no need, let me defend myself. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see what it looks like when you write the laws, in Article 23, already the first inconsistencies in all these rigorous members who define the deadlines and the way the money obtained from the export of goods should return to the country. National MP Miljko Cetrovic, who submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS, asks for Article 23 to be deleted, and Article 23 says: "Citizens - legal persons can grant non-residents financial credits from profits made by residents abroad and on condition that the non-resident - is debtor to the credit business in the majority ownership of residents. "In translation, this would mean that if a legal person from the territory of the Republic has a majority ownership and a legal person outside the territory of income obtained during the export of goods can remain on the territory of the country where the goods are exported. So, the foreign exchange funds that are received during export, and we need to strive to make everything that is produced, or what is exported, on the territory of the Republic, to return that money to the producer, to create a new value, to employ the capacities of the economy and so on, to keep this business going, but we are coming into another situation to keep those funds out of the country. This law, as it is, is written in the interest of banks. We will see this later, therefore, in some other members of this law where it is determined how the foreign exchange funds are sold based on exports, how the foreign exchange funds are sold in general, whether it is possible to trade them on a free market or whether a particular bank can have a monopoly on that market. How high is the power of the banks that are here right now? We can see from the current situation on the foreign exchange market. So, just before July 1st, there's a drop in the euro and someone's going to say -- you know, there's a lot of foreign exchanges on the market right now, so there's a drop in the euro. I would disagree with that, it is artificially challenged, because in the next 40 or 50 days about a million citizens living in the diaspora, or on temporary work abroad, should come to the territory of the Republic. They come now to bring some funds to family members, to maybe buy something here, to do something, so count on a head of 1,000 euros, in the next 40-50 days they'll be bought for something lower, not insignificantly lower, but 5-7%, somewhere around a billion euros, which means that the business banks will only be based on the difference in course, not to mention fees they charge, to make revenues from 70 to 80m euros. Then there's a governor who says -- no problem, we'll stop it, we'll throw out a certain amount of foreign exchanges on the market, or a dinar, and we'll iron the course. It is an interesting concern that is exclusively in the interest of banks, because all these funds that are placed will end up in banks again. At the end of the season of vacations, the euro is expected to jump, it will certainly be bigger than it was before the fall, means 5 - 7% or 10% again, as you expect by the end of the year to make the euro in three-number dinars, meaning again that the bank will earn between 70m and 80m euros without commission. When all of this is looked at, this law, as it's written, is designed, serves exclusively the business banks that have suddenly found themselves here in the territory of the Republic. Our domestic banks were abolished just as it passed from Western European currencies to the euro, and the highest credit was then the governor of the National Bank of Mladjan Dinkic. Now these banks, which have earned huge funds only for foreign exchange changes, which have reached the business space of domestic banks that have been exclusive, continue to cheer and dress and control monetary markets in the territory of the Republic. It is also interesting how our National Bank relates when it comes to loans to citizens or so on. consumer credits. It acts by constantly trying to calm this credit demand by increasing the amount of deposits the banks make when granting loans to the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. I accidentally spoke to representatives of some banks that were bought out by foreigners and when I asked why they don't pay a little more credit in the economy, why these loans are not more favourable, they say – we don't care if we do business or citizens, because interest rates are the same, and our goal is to place them to the citizens, because it's much easier to get to the placement of the loan itself. Our central bank has done nothing to separate the credit that goes into the economy, which is an investment character, from the credit that goes to the citizens. I think it's a big problem for the People's Bank, because that's why our economy can't monitor that credit policy that's being conducted among citizens. The result is that suddenly you have more money on the market than goods that can match that amount of money. If through monetary policy, i.e. the amount of deposits given for loans would be reduced when they go into the economy and if these loans were more favourable, if even with that currency clause, they were approximated by loans that these same foreign banks in their territories place, you would certainly not have problems with the credits raised by citizens, because the economy would come up with more favourable loans, and thus the amount of goods offered would be higher and the need to lend to the citizens of the banks would be reduced, because they could be through some newly created value, through the expansion of capacity, by increasing the volume of business to receive higher wages, thus reducing the need for credits. It seems that the National Bank has only one interest: how to preserve the banks that are on the market and at the same time how to preserve the dinar. The standard of citizens is not concerned, business is also a problem that has existed since you've been in power. I agree that some deadlines are short in the old 90-day law, but I would still like someone who has ever dealt with foreign trade, import, export, purchase of goods, re-romitrations for imports, seasonal goods, investments by the raw material supplier himself, under which conditions he will get that raw material if he pays it a year in advance, must be much more favourable, especially if he has free resources... So, we get this way that if he has free funds he can't place, he can't invest, and our market is limited to how much goods he can swallow and can't anymore; so, that money he keeps at some banks, they give him some interest on the means of seeing, I think that's 1.2%, and that's the most he can get; these same funds to the citizens of 10, 12, 14 and 16%, and with the currency clause he goes over 20% on an annual basis. Who's good at it? Banks. Something perhaps a little bit of a National Bank that comes through these funds to some of the funds from the bank's deposits for lending. So, by law like this and by article 23, you are only in a certain way strengthening and increasing all the consequences that I have listed. I think that when it comes to foreign trade business, especially when it comes to exports, you would have to take more account of the placement of goods and the import of repromaterials that are intended for export and that you have a little more hearing, because anyone who is more serious when entering into contracts on their business, makes those contracts for some long-term co-operation, not for the short term. The longer co-operation, the longer conditions for both sides are usually more favourable. That is the problem, so the biggest benefit from this law will be for importers and banks only. Importers because in a much easier way they will come to foreign funds to be privileged, banks because in this whole business they will charge fees, speculate with the exchange rate differences of dinars compared to the euro. Because we need to be aware that the euro is still a central coin in the territory of Europe, and I guess it's clear to all of us, although you're constantly talking, we're going to Europe, and we need to accept that fact that our foreign market is working in parity with the euro, not with some other currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28857	The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28858	Dear President, fellow MPs, it is good that in a home like this, the highest legislative body of this country, care is taken (hopefully sincere care) about the benefits of a law that the widest layer of citizens will benefit. Of course, every law is kind of specific, some are a little bit more defined by certain professions, by actions, by some a little bit wider. Of course, now that I'm not repeating it, everyone knows it, and so does the citizens. When it comes to foreign exchange law, the law is, by my assessment, and I think that a good number of people are from that profession and interested in these problems have shown that the law is very well done, to open, with certain control mechanisms which, of course, must exist in this matter, a very good level of freedom that is needed. We must slowly release, although there must be control of certain activity in this activity. Of course, it must also be adapted to the business system, the financial level at which the economy is at this point, the banking, credit and general foreign exchange sector, since the law first treats it. The law, by my judgment and what I had the opportunity to hear, was well done, the changes were made to contribute to the development of the economy in general and the export-related work. We define ourselves as a state, as an economy towards exports as a strategic definition. Therefore, in order to encourage the development of the economy, the production should be defined by the export itself. I don't see it too bad if foreign exchange law benefits exporters. Of course, it shouldn't just be exporters, I couldn't agree more. And, on the third hand, if exporters and some other, in general, state, can't have any damage and I think that's the principle that applies to all laws. The law must not be done in such a way as to cause damage. This law, and on that side, meets that condition. In this regard, there were talks about the current developments in the foreign exchange market, when it comes to banks, or when it comes to the course, if we are to deal directly with this mathematics of the foreign exchange market, things are clear. That's what's happening now. Since we have a specific swimming course, which is well conditioned by the movements of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market, if we have a larger supply of foreign exchanges automatically drops the price of foreign exchanges. It's a simple principle, that principle is established. Now really, it's real, there are more people coming to Serbia who carry their foreign exchanges with them. That's to be clear. They'll bring some foreign exchanges to their relatives, friends, etc., but they won't spend it right away, at least I hope, in the sense that they turn them into dinars, but they'll probably offer, and that's what happens to banks to convert them into dinars. This mechanism I don't know if anyone here is going to dispute now, and it's not disputed, is that a larger supply of foreign exchanges on the market is causing the price of foreign exchanges to fall. Absolutely what he said, without intending to defend or advertise anyone, the governor of the National Bank – that although he is aware of it, the offer will automatically challenge, according to the law of the foreign market, the drop in the price of the euro, that they will primarily influence in part of the reserve that the decline in the price of the euro is not great, but rather at a level where they do not cause some kind of devasting of the job itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28859	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28860	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me, when it comes to this kind of discussion, that someone is making mistakes in the footsteps. The law of supply and demand on the foreign exchange market applies when you have a surplus exchange, not because your citizens from abroad come to you here, but because you have a surplus exchange when you place more goods, so from selling goods you get to these exchanges. This is the simplest consequence of bank speculation. What about citizens who have been saving all year to go somewhere on vacation and buy Euros for 87, 88, 89 dinars? What about them, who's at a loss? These citizens who live here. Who's gonna win? Again, banks from which they bought those 88, 89 euros, and now these same banks buy them at 86, and sold them at 88, 89. Don't say that. The measures taken by the National Bank are not effective. They don't take care of it at all. One more thing, what you're talking about for 180 days, like this, solve it only by one of the most ordinary laws that can be contained in this: for every euro exported and charged within 180 days, and goods, raw materials is purely domestic, the exporter has 10 euro cents for each euro of exported goods, as serious countries do. Why don't you follow what Croatia is doing and how it speeds up its exports? You miss that 200, 300 million euros in your budget? In a budget of over five billion euros? You're boasting about the surplus. A surplus that you place in the government's interest. Why don't you place it in the economy? Why don't you define that surplus for export stimulation? What are you talking about? Obviously, you're mistaken. We've only built an Export Acceleration Agency for export and whoever wants to export has to pay that agency a commission. You know, then I don't need an agency. I'm sure I'll take more care of my money than that agency about me, but I have to pay her. Why? For someone to go out for this pay phone and say, it's only to increase exports. What's the score? Not at all. It's often counterproductive. So instead of such a rigorous way of getting to the foreign exchanges that will be reused by business banks, just give stimulation to the exporters. Give them stimulation, that stimulation, those 10 Eurocents won't end anywhere, but will only affect that more goods producers are placing, that workers are working harder and getting higher wages. I guess that's what you're worried about, not the banks. Don't worry about the banks. They know how to take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28861	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28862	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this foreign exchange law, Article 25, is one of the greatest dangers of Serbian citizens from all sides, because defining housing loans, or loans to buy real estate in the currency of the euro or the Swiss franc, is something that banks are trying to show as favourable for the purchase of housing facilities, is today the biggest danger for many citizens. They, of course, have to think for 10 or 20 years, no matter what life they're in, and they meet the conditions to get that loan, what's going to happen next with the economy in this country, with their incomes, how they're going to repay loans under these and such interest conditions. I, of all MPs, may have looked at the highest number of business banks in the country to buy housing, because I am personally interested in solving this problem, which many citizens of Serbia, millions or who knows how many of them, and I have not come across, with rational thinking and advice from people who understand banking and what can come after a number of years, no positive position on this issue. In the beginning you have the opportunity to see what awaits you and that this exchange clause is just one of the more difficult circumstances. That is why, on behalf of the SRS, I suggested that Article 2 be deleted and that the state, if it so wishes, so on. A national corporation that has made certain offers to buy real estate for people who are 45 years old, with some help from the state, to define then that protecting the national currency helps people, but by intercede with individual banks (and if they don't want everything then they will be excluded from the game) to lend loans in dinars. These banks, on much more favourable terms, have come to the capital that they offer on the Serbian market, for which they charge enormously high interest, starting with these loans, as Mr. Moma Markovic would say - you come in, you come out and you're done, through all other summer loans, wintering, buying the various equipment needed for people's households, because our people are eager to do anything and who comes to think about how one day they're going to own some real estate. I hear the President of the Republic complains that he has not solved the issue, so they announced only this morning that he had acquired his first capital; however, his beginning was until he met Trizon, one of the biggest mobsters and thieves who financed him and fled from 27m euros, but he remembers those first days and says he had a hard time making money, especially because he was a failed shepherd and couldn't keep sheep. I wouldn't have given him two drawn goats to guard, if you ask me, even those citizens who believed that those two drawings could be preserved obviously repenting, because they voted for such a president who wasn't even an ambassador to the economy, nor allowed people to live more favourably in this country. As for his thief and what he really is, Boris the thief, that's exactly what goes by his name. When it comes to honest people, with sincere intentions, who think on the basis of these propaganda videos and these offers that it's an easy problem, some banks and referents, regardless of what they do for wages and want to have as many clients as possible, they might warn them of the danger that lurks them at the beginning, and some people don't, but they simply give them an application sheet, so you go ahead and, if you understand -- you understand -- and if you don't know that stuff at all, then who's to blame, because that's how the governor, the finance minister, who made it possible for these big foreign banks to operate on domestic, much more favourable terms for them. Insurance of real estate loans, which are also paid in foreign exchanges, is very high, between 1.5 per cent and 2 per cent. Also, the commission to be paid during the processing requires in carrying out the loan, whether it is easy cash, which completely destroys people and their poor budgets anyway; it seems tempting to them, it is Djelic's easy cash, and they think it will solve some problems in a moment. But the first torments arise, and only now do many people say, after a few months, when they are getting harder and harder to pay off that amount in foreign exchanges, and especially because interest rates are unguaranteed for these loans up to five years, because you saw for yourself, regardless of what the governor pours crocodile tears, so as to give warnings through the National Bank Center to certain banks to lower interest rates, because they allegedly do so without his consent, none of it, "eats a donkey wolf", and interest increases and increases in housing loans. When someone gives you a check-up in foreign exchanges what it looks like for the next 25 years and you see an reportedly falling interest, you actually pay two and a half apartments, because it's one big scam, depending on the bank to the bank, two to two and a half, depending on what arrangement you enter, whether with a deposit or without, which is the deadline, then it's uncertainty, which is even more suspicious because of the fact that the loan is in foreign currency, and it's not in national currency. I said 15 days ago, when we talked about some other law, that the Russian State Duma is against the adoption of a law that protects their national currency, complete economic growth and the role of the state in financing and building housing, and the credit policy that that state has is quite different from this one right here. The so-called Another reading is a law that will be adopted unanimously in Russia's state-run Duma, on a proposal from their president of the state, to protect laundry as a national currency no MP, no minister, no state official anywhere can find the equivalent in any other currency, to say a dollar, just a job, to say the euro instead of laundry. And here it's so common, which is why this law allowed these banks and all those, even individuals to dare, as was the case in Kragujevac last year, and they subsequently corrected it, to give local communal taxes in the euro, and let alone banks that simply have that possibility, they got permission to work. As our people say, sheep are for haircuts, not these Tadics he didn't save, but those others who simply succumb to these influences and those propaganda offers that simply lead people into a difficult situation after a while. Look how it is in the countries around. Last year, as members of a parliamentary delegation in front of the Defence and Security Committee, a delegation led by Mr Mircic was in Bulgaria. All these West Banks that do business here, business in Bulgaria as well. We've been paying attention to those billboards and they're far lower interest rates for housing loans, with the far lower price of squares of living space in their capital, in downtown Sofia than here, and even cheaper than in Kragujevac where the price is 800 to fantastic 1,200 euros, depends on what and where you buy and what the equipment is. But those who entered those arrangements under more favourable interest there in neighbouring Bulgaria are also ahead of the uncertainty that they will be able to pay for the rest of their working and lifespan. So it would be much better if the state were to deal with how to protect the national currency, if it is of interest to it, because these days we see all these statements in favour of how stronger the dinar allegedly leads in that direction, however, it is only declarative and it is only for political and propaganda purposes. If you really wanted to do so, you would accept this amendment and thus force all these business banks to, with the interest they prescribe, give far more favourable terms when it comes to deposits and all these percentages that go along with the application for credit in dinars. Many people have wondered and for days there have been controversy over it, and even Jelasic has advertised several times, although it has been mixed, the hour has spoken one, the hour of another, why some banks want to ensure themselves, because in the beginning they only had an offer in the Swiss francs, because they themselves do not believe, as do most citizens of certain EU member states who had the opportunity to plead during last year in the referendums on the adoption of the EU Constitution, in the survival of that European community, as many citizens of Serbia do not believe in your promise that this will happen. Now you don't even know it anymore, because everything is uncertain. Citizens who live here whose commitment is to work here, to train their children, to start any work and to be in a paid position to enter any credit arrangement, certainly more interested in whether the state will make sure in the future that it gives them credit in the national currency. The fact that the NBS, and especially the finance minister, allows certain banks to be held, cannot say that they are all doing so, but some in such a poor society buy a kajamak in the fastest possible way, shows the attitude of the state, the minister and the governor towards their own citizens. There's absolutely no one to protect them. These people are, surely, in your environment and among your relatives, friends and neighbors, simply forced, many because of their naked existence, to take short-term loans, and for housing, perhaps the lady, as well as yesterday that gentleman, simply has no right to speak, because the minister is not there, there is information about how many of these contracts have already been concluded through the corporation or even information about the responsibility of citizens for housing loans only in the last year. A few days ago, our media reported that in terms of these short-term loans and these loans up to 5,000 or 10,000 euros, and most often they are several thousand, now on average each Serbian citizen owes 850 euros. That's an incredible number. On average, because there are those who haven't taken that loan at all and don't think about it, no matter what the situation is. That average is very high. I'm going to go back to that case of the sleep of an average Canadian who says that his greatest goal in life is really there, regardless of the success of the economy and the much greater income, to free himself from numerous payment cards and credits by various banks, in which people, consciously or unconsciously, fell out of torment or by some because of what they wanted in a moment more. It's all a normal human desire and reaction to each and every one of us. We are all living people and, above all, we Serbian radicals, to create a rich society and to live in a society where people who are willing to deal with certain jobs, to respect the laws of this country, to earn, to make a living, to hire, to have workers, pensioners, children in Serbia have better conditions for life, to get the unemployed into a situation that has better social programmes, the possibility of moving to another job and to have the state help them. Simply, this is not an appeal, but the only possible thing in this law – to erase attitude 2 and accept my amendment, if you want to give hope to all people in Serbia who want to buy real estate in the future, that the state will stand behind them and that it will protect the national currency to allow them to at least be certain that they will be able to through their working and lifespan this credit and return, when they are home and when they enter into such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28863	The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28864	The President-in-Office, if, in the draft foreign exchange law, which we are considering in particular today, it would be for the bank to grant a natural person, i.e. a resident a loan in foreign exchange to buy real estate in the country, I would absolutely, I think, and G17 plus, for the amendment to be accepted. In the draft law in paragraph 2, which I think is very important and this is a big difference compared to this potential possibility I just said, it says that the bank can (meaning, leaving only as an option) grant a resident - a natural person a credit in exchange for the purchase of immovable property. This is just an alternative variant to banks, which was given as a legal option in the proposal this time, that these credit operations work directly in foreign exchanges, not only accounting in foreign exchanges, but directly giving credit to a natural person - a resident in foreign exchanges. In Serbia, the dinar is close to 200 years of official coin, a means of payment. I must say that I am very glad that in the past few years, monetary policy has been retained that, unlike some other countries in the nearby environment, there remains an official coin of the state of Serbia. I don't see how we would lose that kind of autonomy of the dinar as a means of payment. Once again, only the possibility has been left here, it turns out that, it was the authority of the legislator, in some banks in contact with citizens, the interest of citizens to have loans in foreign exchanges, for various reasons. You know I don't take your time. First of all, I think of those long-term ones, those for real estate. On the one hand, it has its advantages, and on the other hand it has potential dangers. I think that in one law of this guy we should leave a slightly wider possibility that if the bank thinks it's good for her and the borrower thinks it's good for him they can make a mutual loan agreement in foreign exchanges. Otherwise, I'm absolutely in favour of any banking or any other monopoly being prevented in this country, because the monopoly anywhere, as a rule, didn't do any good. As a rule, a monopoly serves to make an exclusive benefit for itself personally and for its firm. Every bank control, in terms of limiting the monopoly, I think it's welcome. Of course, we must be very careful. If we were to ask the citizens of Serbia today whether the banks are smaller and have fewer opportunities, as they now have, to take certain loans and loans, or to abolish banks, I think we would get the answer that citizens are still interested in staying here. The ability of banks to be more quality, that more banks can provide credit under good conditions, of course, those opportunities in some law, and even in this law, I think they should stand, so I say again just as opportunities. Money is a means of payment in this country, and I think it still needs to stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28865	Thank you very much, Mr. Yaksic. Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28866	I was just about to achieve that effect, counterpart Jaksic, to eliminate the possibility of an alternative and such free interpretation of banks in Serbia. If you remember, it was only a one-time statement by Governor Radovan Jelasic at the time when most citizens were appalled by the fact that the euro billing course in some banks turned into a Swiss franc and there were interpretations of various economists that it was more, one day he said, at the end of last year, that he personally advocated that loans to buy immovable property were in dinars. But he didn't stay long with that statement because it wasn't the G17 that brought him to the governor's post, it was the banking lobby, so he had to shut up soon. We don't say we shouldn't operate banks on our market. On the contrary, I have set an example for you of neighbouring Bulgaria where these same banks, that I do not now list some of the right advertising, under the same name, offer loans but with significantly lower interest. Ask yourself, then, is it because they are forced through certain conditions by the state and above all by their national banks to give much more favourable or is it the role of a state that wanted to speed up their credit arrangements? This way, there really is a great danger here, and you can't defend it. I understand your intention to promote this law, but the fact is that people have to take it. Somewhere far more favourable, but mostly not, in 90% of cases, and especially because of this incredible change in interest rates over the past 15 days, almost all these clients are getting notices at home to increase their war and that is simply how it is, that it is their policy. It is hardly possible that some subsequent regulations, pressures on them or the governor's appeals will be able to correct it. These people have signed contracts that commit to respect the bank's business policy until the end, with a change in growth and interest, with the greatest inconvenience, because here we are talking about real estate, that 5% must start out to process this loan and a commission that is very high. In other countries in Europe, you know, that's maybe 0.5% of each other, all when you add up a little more than 1%. Here it is 4 - 5%, which is a big stake, and because citizens don't usually own that deposit, find a bank some model to overcome it, but first of all because these mortgage claims are very high and the mortgage law didn't help much, because all banks still require that the property be registered exclusively, or if it's only to be built when they get a potential client's license, or the one who buys the property can make a contract, because they are provided in any way. The value of the mortgage is indeed, which is asked of the bank, incredibly high, and people who have no settled housing issue usually possess nothing and cannot provide a first-row mortgage, which is actually the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28867	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28868	Thank you, National Assembly President. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I did not know that another brilliant intellectual action is under way by G17 plus and DS, the so-called thief's block, as they are called together by these parties; they organized an action called Tomislav Nikolic's lunch, and they brought in that handful of misery signatures and who knows how many of those customs officers, health homes, etc. I'm just saying, it's not a good time for lunch, and since it's not a good time for anyone to eat, they can't get eaten somewhere with morning coffee to eat it at 8:00 a.m. for some light breakfast, because when we're ready, they're going to eat for years how many signatures will be against the thief's block.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28869	This was, I guess, by Article 225. Important notice for the work of the MPs. I totally understand, because I didn't have breakfast either, but we have to work. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would still not agree with many statements this morning about banks not taking care of their committees. And how they lead. Remember how much rush it was to get credits. Credits and hands and hats were granted, and now that citizens are in a position so that these loans can't be returned to the bank again, she gave credit to pay for the loan. Thus, credit for paying credit for paying credit, then credit for paying credit for paying credit for paying loans, until Serbian citizens are expelled from their houses, they take all the property and drop out of shoes, and then Serbia's citizens "first time with their father in the morning" as in that folk's proverb will go to church. Of course, this does not apply to all citizens and does not apply to so-called citizens. foreign banks, because they are not foreign banks, at least 60, 70% of the capital in these foreign banks is held by tycoons from Belgrade, capital that went over various exotic islands and returned to the banks. The tycoons from the Alibaba Cave across the street from the National Assembly building and those across the street from that building are very well undermined, they don't need credits, and they don't need credits to repay credits. After all, only one piece of information, which the citizens of Belgrade certainly do not know: the contractor of the work on Nemanja Street had no employee, no worker, so he took subcontractors and, of course, took a cock, and the kamak had to share with Bogdanovic. Now it's clear to me, according to that graduation yesterday, why Bogdanovic is the vice president of the Democratic Party. So, up to 3.5m euros a man who steals can be the chairman of the municipal board, out of 5-6 million, the president of the city board, about 27 million could be some vice president, otherwise over 35 million DS vice presidents, and the president has no limit, he can steal until he's caught. Besides, Bogdanovic... However, in yellow, Ali-baba and 40 yellows, among which Bogdanovic is one of them, in municipalities where yellow in power changes asphalt every six months, says his asphalt is dirty, he has to change it. That's how the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia spill out their money, and there are the surpluses coming out of this. Now let's move on to the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 27, and I request that Article 27 be deleted, which states: "The bank, without restrictions, keeps foreign exchanges on foreign banks' accounts. "Station 2: "Residents can hold foreign bank foreign exchanges under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the NBS." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 27, as regards Mladjan Dinkic, is the most important member of this law. Remember the Euroaxis Bank, when he was governor of the National Bank, so he kept the money at Euroaxis Bank, and then Euroaxis Bank's capital at the National Savings Bank, and then it turns out that it's not the National Savings Bank but the private bank, so it turns out that the biggest shareholders are just some of the ones out there from a coded interest group, not to cause a replica. Then it turns out that a dowry has drawn in along with that National Savings Bank, which has been sold, of the 7,200 square meters of the most elite and most quality business space in Serbia, and says – we have profited. Yes, Mr. Dinkic, you've profited, the state has lost. The question is how many banks like that are. The question is what lies behind all these banks with foreign names and the question is, where is this capital that the bank achieves in this market drains, in whose pockets. We won't let them sew their mouths when they go where they're supposed to go, they'll have lunch. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have received, the Legislative Committee has said that my amendment is legally possible. Well, who else writes a legally impossible amendment? Of course, I took care when I wrote on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that it was legally possible, that at least I wouldn't put the Legislative Committee in a position so much trouble. As for the government's response, the matter is like this, he says, "Amendment to article 27 of the law submitted by MP Momir Markovic, which reads - Article 27 is deleted. The amendment is not accepted because the funds are not drained from the country, but are located in the correspondence accounts of banks abroad," it is the Euroaxis Bank, "and according to specific business (execution of investment works abroad and others) residents can only keep under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia. "The National Bank will refer to residents - companies that will keep abroad, say, perform foreign works and hold foreign exchange funds there, foreign exchange funds must be paid by workers, accommodations, nutrition, construction materials etc. – to prescribe the conditions under which they can hold, and the conditions will be: they can, bro, but you have to give a little bit and a little and what became a deputy governor, and then they become a citizen of Serbia. Otherwise, he lived and worked in a neighboring country, and I expect that as soon as he finishes here, at least two suitcases go back to that country. I suggest that in the voting day, you adopt the amendment to Article 27 and that we delete Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28871	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28872	I'm going to explain a little differently what Mr. Markovic has done nicely, vividly for this amendment, in a way that makes it very clear to everyone. At first, Canadians don't only have a problem with payment cards, but also with snowflakes, you know, it's their much bigger obsession than their payment cards. Since I have promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this transmission that I will bare the whole scenario of this law, you will now see: Article 27 is in a chapter called Depositary Affairs. I have to remind you it's banking business and it's already prescribed by our Bank Act. That stuff's already been regulated. Now we will go back to the definition used by the promoter, that is, in Article 2 paragraph 22), it is said – deposits transactions, within the meaning of this law, are transactions based on a deposit agreement between a foreigner and a bank, are thought of by our bank, as well as between residents, our own, and banks abroad. So, very precisely defined, the combination: our -- foreign bank, foreigner -- our bank, and that's deposit business. As regulated by the government, as she suggests, it says – deposit operations of residents abroad, our legal and natural persons abroad. It should apply, as we have seen here, when it comes to our resident, to a foreign bank. Now, you explain, to be clear, in that part, we can only regulate certain things that concern our resident, but as far as foreign banks are concerned, we do not have that right and we do not have sovereignty in that territory, we do not have sovereignty in the territory of Canada, so we can prescribe what kind of way it will be. By drawing that authority from our foreign bank, what our government wrote: "Banka, without restrictions, keeps foreign exchanges on bank accounts abroad." What does this have to do with foreign exchange business? This is our foreign bank relationship. Why are you putting our bank in? Contorent accounts are regulated by the Bank Act. It's not the subject of this law at all. But it's got to get stuck, it's got to be dark, it's got to be out of sight. Item 2: "The residents can keep foreign bank foreign exchanges on account under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia. "This authority stands in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Why are you putting it here? You can see how designed this is. Now I'm going back to the previous amendment, regarding Article 25(2): "The bank can grant a resident - a natural person a loan in foreign exchange to buy real estate in the country. "As far as possible, I don't understand. Why do we have a dollar as a means of payment? Why do we have exchange offices? Why do we have banks? Any normal state that holds to its sovereignty insists that internal payments be in the currency in force in that country. You're wrong, you don't use your notions about payment funds, it's a dinar and foreign payment funds, and foreign payment funds are held as foreign exchanges, these are claims and as effective foreign money. You've got it all wrong. Then what's with the gearbox? Why trade business as a banking business? Here you have drawn out in article 25 as a special type of business regulated by the foreign exchange law – crediting in foreign exchanges between residents in the Republic. How is that possible? Why are you throwing out the money? You want to bring in the euro as a means of payment? It is not in accordance with the Constitution, not in accordance with the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Money is a means of payment. To return a little to Article 23, which we also asked for to be deleted – based on the profits obtained by a legal person in the export business, that profit abroad can be placed as a non-resident's loan abroad. What are you talking about? For such a thing they barely fought a few years ago, the state of EEZ. What are you doing? A builder who works in Russia, there's supposed to have earned something, there's some positive difference, some profit, he's got no obligation to get back into the country, but he can place that profit as a loan. And where's the bank? Could a legal and physical person be a creditor under the Foreign Exchange Act? Where are the banks? Why are you repealing the Banks Act? Credit transactions are bank business, not legal entities, residents and non-residents. You're even pushing that into the Foreign Exchange Act. That's unnecessary. But it shows what the point is, what the intention is, why the law like this is proposed. Under the cloak of absolute freedoms and liberalisation, you destroy what little we have left. Euro, the dinar is nowhere, he's lost. Anyone can borrow. You'll give the citizen a chance to go to the bank, take a loan in euros and go buy a real estate for those euros. How can you not be ashamed to do these things? In that case, we have a law that says that a dinar is a means of payment. How is that possible, explain it to me. So, the internal payload uses the dinar, and now we're opening up the story of interest rates and so on, and that's something that's completely unnecessary. So it's a matter that doesn't touch the foreign exchange law. Where did the idea of making an internal payment through foreign funds and whose interest would that be? That would be the interest of the banks. Now I ask the citizens to return the picture and their memories a few years ago when the spectacularly open National Savings Centre, national pride, the impact picture on television was: Zoran Djindjic invests some 100 euros, the second was Labus, who was smilingly satisfied, and the third was Mladjan Dinkic, so pompous, that it was a serious job, and that drummer Đuričić, and now advertises the pan. From the bank commercial, there was a pan; the cabbage is brilliant. What else are you going to make up to fool the citizens, explain to me what else can be invented? Time usually allows the truth to come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28873	I agree, thank you very much. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the principle of attitude and opposition of the SRS, as you've heard so far, is that the bill, as most of these laws so far, has been done for someone else and not for the citizens of Serbia, in this case for foreign banks. In principle, it's all done for some foreign people, for some foreigners, mostly to avoid being a people, but it is seen by citizens of Serbia, as you know, and it will punish you in the next election. Here is also the help of an import lobby that has recently been reigning in Serbia, so everything here is imported, and wine, and milk, and meat, and water, and apples, tomatoes, medicines, whatever comes to mind, everything is taken and everything is imported. When imports of any goods here have no protection of domestic producers, nothing, anything is allowed, just let certain tycoons work, so your business friends don't feel neglected, but when something needs to be exported, then we get chaos. You all know that's true. I'm convinced no one can say it's not because there are a million examples that it is. The question is why are you helping banks to give citizens foreign exchange credits, because banks have eaten citizens with their credit policy in Serbia, as you have heard, in the past, and as we all know, this amount of credit they have here is nowhere else. Why do people take it? People are poor, and our banks have been destroyed by your policy over the past period, there are no favourable credits for the economy, and people are forced to take loans. What's the system you're using, not to say there's no favourable loans for the economy, for everything else. First of all, companies become government policy, due to outstanding claims, due to large taxes, indivisible. Then what is it? In order to solve current problems in the short term, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises and liquidity, you have spent five years and told us about it, they are forced to take expensive loans and interest rates are about 2.5 - 4%, so your inflation, plus your banking commission, is increasing their costs further. Also, you say, there are development funds, I don't know what you call them, that help businesses, but development funds have short-term loans to offer, which, for crafts, to boost competitiveness, the liquidity of the domestic economy, which is given at acceptable rates, but need a bank guarantee on a certain amount of credit, which is difficult to obtain and is a more expensive starting amount. So you didn't do anything with it. What's he saying? He's saying that in order to solve a company's liquidity problem, every firm can try to take credit, since we're talking about it, from a bank and try to cure it in the short term, but that drug is very bitter, because people are in charge and they can't survive afterwards. An unlicensed company thus gets involved in an even bigger problem. Short-term banking loans are very expensive, as you know, while something is more favourable from state funds, and it's very difficult to get if you're not in the mercy of the ruling set, especially G17 plus and others, but then you don't need it because you get it on a gift. You remember that former agriculture minister who got 13 million dinars and then split the money, no credits needed. I don't speak for them. That's why our economy is ruined, that's why our foreign trade deficit is huge, I don't think it's ever been that big, and it's never going to be and it's impossible. The debt is huge, the prices are going up, inflation is going up, and that's why we have a monopoly in the economy where some people get rich under these laws, and that's why the law isn't good for you, and in principle, let me tell you something, that's why the government isn't good for you. I think it would be a good idea if you adopted the amendment, and the best thing to do is to withdraw the law, and even better to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28875	Mr. Krstin, I know you're a gentleman, but there's more from the same parliamentary group. So, MP Zoran Krasic, according to the same amendment. We always take the order from the parliamentary group from which the amendment was submitted, then the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28876	Mr. Markovic, you take care of yourself, not me. He wants to be a gentleman, and I want to be a gentleman, so he makes some order, wants to advertise with some ladies, but well, he can because he's the president of the National Assembly. (President: Mr. Krasic, compare our beards. Mr. Markovic, I confess and appreciate, just put your tie on, something's wrong with you. The amendment to Article 34 aims to delete points 1, 4 and 5 in point 4. Of course, we had to submit this amendment because it is directly related to the amendments that we have submitted to Articles 25 and 27, but to see how contradictory the scenario is or, to be precise, the synopsis. Article 34 begins with the first position that reads: "Citizens and non-residents use foreign exchange payments if this law is not different. "Station 2: Payment, charge and transfer between residents and non-residents in the Republic are made in dinars. "The government finally hit one provision in accordance with the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, and then the exceptions move. So now there is attitude 4 – charging and transfer can also be done in foreign exchanges based on... Now we have to go back again, because when you say foreign exchanges, those are claims abroad that are foreign currency. Put that definition in the context of what you wrote, and if it has any slight connections, it's an honor to you. Now these foreign exchange claims, which are so said, can be used for foreign exchange lending in the country for, Article 25, the purchase of real estate in the Republic of Serbia by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's terrible. Next, the insurance premium. So the traffic of immovableity, insurance companies and all that Mladjan Dinkic gave as leader of a group according to the system -- here you go, apparently, to foreigners, probably just by company names, probably ours hiding with registration companies at airports or free zones. We have a large free zone here where performance is performed – me, president of the Republic of Serbia. Michelle Platini is the best goalie. That's what he's famous for. Michel Platini was the best goalie, as the performer said on the subject – I, President of the Republic of Serbia. This doesn't matter. If you could take this to some man who's a bank clerk, some freighter who's doing these regular jobs about this, he'd laugh and tell you right now what the script is, what's behind this, who's protecting his interests with this bill. So real estate can be in foreign money. Choose a reason. Do you have any favors for your real estate agencies or for those strangers who are supposed to buy real estate? What can all be real estate? It could be land. What kind of land? Construction, agricultural, forest and not order any further. What else could be real estate? It's a residential facility. What's that? The Mercator guy, 10 floors, the mouth business building, the little building, all that can be. Here someone realized that foreign exchange law should be an expression of the pathological desire to secure foreign exchanges and to find themselves in traffic, and where is the interest of the state, where is the interest of citizens, of our citizens? He's gone. What's it for? To prove to strangers that he can do anything here. Here you can be charged with withdrawing the indictment, then leading the delegation and kissing the president of Serbia, President of the SRJ. Anything's possible with us. You can imagine, the Humanitarian Law Fund is advertised on Radio Belgrade and calls on citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, who had to flee to save their heads, file reports and report victims and criminals from Kosovo and Metohija. That's what those who have done everything to persecute Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are asking. We can have it all. Natasa Kandic became a patriot, you see. A few days ago, you saw, even some objected to a verdict in The Hague. Who was the most rebelling? The ones who kept most of the paperwork and the truth from being made known. There, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what's going on. As of October 5th, you are the biggest victims of media manipulation and fraud by this Dosmanian government, which, for some time, changes the way some of its composition, but does not change the essence. Politics, ideology, it's the same to them and it goes as a constant, it says -- coalition capacity, a democratic bloc. If anyone lives, they know what that means. You know, even the dude mare in Serbia doesn't eat, the meat is sour, so our people say; and they teach us that sour meat is the best meat and performs daily some performances, entertains citizens, and they don't want to get caught for the essential issues that mean reality, life, etc. It's a good Rules of Procedure, we can explain now, you who follow the transmission tell the neighbors what's going on. In all the stitches and all the aspects, this is bad authority. She's so bad she's not even able to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28877	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic, and then, after the amendment, MP Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28878	People's MPs, for the sake of the public, I am obliged to tell you what is happening in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I already announced, I didn't know how it was going to be organised; those who collected signatures against our party, the only national party, the SRS, brought signatures, that handful of misery signatures, gathering in the customs office, through the director of the vault, director of apothecary institutions, health homes, etc. So, they forced people to bring 70,000 signatures and they said, they're very expensive. They're still bragging about it. Picked up, brought Tommy Nico for lunch to eat mustard, ketchup, and I don't know what. I have to say, they were so funny, it wasn't enough for breakfast either. So, maybe my Daniel's enough for lunch, he's eight years old, but don't, people, it's not enough for me even for breakfast. A man two metres, 100 kilos, he's got to eat something. No, you brought 70,000 signatures, a little mustard, a handful of misery, and let's eat that man. Come on, if you're already so in power, if you're already stealing 27 million euros, so buy that regular mustard of half a kilo, a kilo, that a man has something to eat, a little more ketchup, some sausage, not 70,000 signatures, some little paper, let's get that man to eat. Shame should be upon you. Let me inform you, soon the people will be pleading in one way or another against the thief's bloc in Serbia. You'll see, it won't be for lunch 70,000; it'll be for you to eat, eat, and I don't know how many of your members will be able to eat, and certainly not one hundred of them will eat. Thank you very much. Anyway, next time a little more and a little better care for radicals to lead. Instead of mustard, please bring mayonnaise. They make both Vital and Star, whatever you want, good mayonnaise as much as you want. This mayonnaise brings us, and we're going to make nice arrests to all those who robbed these people and these citizens and to show you in the finest way where you belong and not to do it in front of the National Assembly, but within Central Prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28879	Mr. Wolfie, I didn't warn you about your private life data, because I realized it was a metaphor. Mr. Ambassador you spoke of is neither chubby nor tall, please. But I also asked you to take care of each other's dignity and not to mention the spices for the reasons I said. Here's another sentence, but I hope there's only one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28880	You didn't understand. I was talking about myself, Mr. President. It's true, I don't have two meters, I have 199, and I have over 100 kilos, I have to admit, you don't care; that's why I like mayonnaise, not this mustard, the cheapest. That's how much money we steal, and they save on mustard.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28881	It's a misunderstood understanding. Here you are, MP Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28882	I just wanted to say a few clarifications about the import lobby or the export lobby. So imports are mostly what the country needs. It's nice to talk here about the import of repromation and the fact that the import of repromation should be further stimulated and that exporters should have additional stimulations. However, not everything can fit into one law. It can't fit into this law and these amendments or everything that applies to other areas governed by the Banks Act. We're all completely in agreement here. When it comes to exporters, these laws give them more serious opportunities. We mentioned an extension of the duty rate, so when we say 180 days, we don't say the sea on the 180th day, but up to 180 days. When it comes to importers, those other members of this law get a serious opportunity and get incentives to export. They are clearly highlighted to other members of this law and not all deadlines for the entry of foreign exchanges are defined. Of course, the G17 Plus party will support this law as proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28883	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. No more time, you'll get when there's two minutes, but no more. Mr Arsic, I wouldn't have given a word from another MP's group if there was more time, but it's not a dispute, you'll find a way. Now there's no reason. National MP Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35. Proposal for a foreign exchange law. I ask that in the second article's position, the 35th word "he" be deleted. In Chapter V, payment traffic with abroad is regulated. Article 35 regulates the way in which foreign exchanges are held, the conditions under which foreign exchange accounts and the conditions of business between the bank and residents are opened. Article 35 reads: "The bank also holds foreign exchanges with another bank, i.e. the National Bank of Serbia. The resident - legal person and entrepreneur keep foreign exchanges at the bank or sell them to that bank. The National Bank of Serbia prescribes the conditions under which banks open foreign exchange accounts and how these accounts and foreign savings roles of residents. The level, the method of accounting and payment of interest, as well as the currency in which interest and principal are paid, are determined by a contract between the bank and residents." The amendment to the SRS that I represent requires that the word "he" be deleted in the position of the 2nd member be deleted. The essence of this amendment is that residents can freely dispose of their foreign exchanges, regardless of where the bank has an open foreign exchange account. The opening of a foreign exchange account with a bank does not require a resident to necessarily sell foreign exchanges to a bank with a foreign exchange account. Our proposal leaves the possibility for the resident to sell foreign exchanges to the bank that has the most favourable course on the day of sale. It is not necessary to link the opening of an account to the mandatory sale of foreign exchanges to that bank. The resident must be left free will to whom he will sell his foreign exchanges. If the Banks Act regulated the situation that all banks work under the same conditions, which means they have the same exchange rate, that they have the same interest rates, my amendment might not make sense. This is how I suggest that you accept my amendment in the voting day, because I hope that it will regulate Article 35 in some ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28885	One notice from what you asked. We'll work today until this point is over. Since I expect us to work effectively, the next item has two amendments, that's point 12, and if we start paragraph 13 by 18, we don't extend the hours, but as much as we do the 13-point amendment and we'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. If we don't work, we'll have to make a decision 16 hours ago, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I sincerely hope that we can organize time like this. We'll see how the session goes, so you know you're doing your job. This was at the request of the MPs. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it often happens that, past the government's authorised representative, a minister reveals the true intentions of the ruling majority. They don't seem to be well-coordinated, synchronised, so some Serbian government minister took out something at his press conference, so he says what the opposition is saying. Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs Milan Parivodic said he would allow Serbian businesses to invest freely abroad, stressing that this would lead to a drain of foreign exchanges, reduce pressure on dinar growth and improve the investment environment in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, if this minister were from Germany, it would seem to him, if he were from the United Kingdom, the United States, from Israel, but something like this to say to the Serbian minister, who will say that the foreign exchanges brought here by Serbian citizens from temporary work abroad, the foreign exchanges that our workers have earned by working on factories, investing abroad, that some other workers are working there, that some other workers are working there, and that people are left out of work... In the past 15 years, especially in the 1990s, a single lobby has been created, an import lobby. Should it be said that the import lobby speculated on the course of the dinar, influenced the course of the dinar, and that it was a sponsor at that time of opposition or DOS parties. These same sponsors of the Democratic Party, and since you are negotiating with it then your sponsors, have accumulated quite a large amount of capital measured by billions of euros. They do not find here that they can make good enough and safe enough to make money, and that money has been obtained by various financial speculations in the foreign exchange market, in co-operation with Milo Djukanovic, who was then the president of Montenegro; they have come up with huge capital, and now they will invest in abroad, capital acquired by robbing Serbian citizens. That is the problem, and when you write such laws, I really ask whether you write them for other countries, on behalf of some other countries, on behalf of some other citizens or most of Serbia's citizens. I guess that law should be in their interest. So far, there have been stories about how it is in the citizens' interest to buy real estate for foreign exchanges. Let's take a look at whose interest it is. In the interest of the bank, it is in the interest of those who sell, which is this construction and urban mafia in Belgrade, which is decorated in the Democratic Party, which makes five dinars on the money invested, and now it will not be on the dinar but on the euro of five euros in earnings. They benefit from that. Who else can benefit? Banks. Who doesn't? That citizen who's in charge for 20, 25 and 30 years to secure his family's roof over his head. He must be returning to foreign exchanges. There is one practice, though old, and you have suspended it by law, that is, if a contractual relationship of debtors and creditors in foreign currency is achieved, at least before, and if that contract is not met, the damaged party has the right to seek protection from the court, and when calculating interest, the interest on foreign currency assets that were in place in the country from where these foreign funds came from, at the rate where the money comes from. Is that gonna be in this case? He won't. Are loans residential, consumer? I don't think so. It buys permanently well. Would you like to cut the deposit? You won't. Will the bank cut interest? He won't. Is there going to be more damage to the one who's taking the loan? It will. Is he gonna make more money for the guy who sells the apartment? It will. That's what you've legalized. Is this mob in Belgrade, urban, construction, etc.? Yes, it is. Is that the DS mob? Yes, it is. Do you work with them and negotiate with them? You're negotiating. Are you the same as them? You're the same. That's the problem. Then why are you writing these laws? Did Bogdanovic's friends write this bill? Have you written this law for them, for those who build in Belgrade, where even the sidewalk is being built, where criminal charges are being written because the Law of Planning and Construction is being violated, and even the prosecutor does not act on that criminal application, where there is no permit, where the building permit is withdrawn from the floor, in the gauges, there are no accompanying areas around housing facilities, etc. He gets a permit for five apartments, he makes 50, and he pays five. Some of them sell the apartment five times. How much do you steal like that? So far, there's been theft; maybe they'll come and radicals to power (and it's not possible, it's safe), so let's make sure we don't go to jail, so we'll make sure that what's been thieving and stealing is legal now. That's your problem. From what I can see, we're about to have laws that suspend the positive provisions of some laws to protect ourselves against some justice that awaits you, I'm sure of it, by the end of this, if not by the end of this year. I propose to MPs who have not participated in these criminal acts to vote in favour of this amendment. We'll see for those who don't vote, whether their conscience is as pure as that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28887	That's 250. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28888	Article 41 has the title: dinar course. I have to say, it's in the section of the foreign exchange market and the course of the dinar. Article 40 stipulates that the rate of the dinar towards foreign currencies on the foreign exchange market is to be freely formed, in accordance with the offer and demand of the foreign currency. Article 41 reads: "The official middle course of the dinar is formed in the manner established by the regulation of the National Bank of Serbia". It doesn't have to stand here because it's in the NBS Act. Item 2 says, "For the purposes of bookkeeping and statistics, the official middle course of the dinar is applied." It's a bit of a problem with accounting, and as far as statistics are concerned, it's a different situation, because you can't treat accounting as something imaginary and beyond real flows and beyond what's called value. Okay, that's not covered by our amendment. We have amended heading 3. The government proposed that item 3 reads: "For the calculation of customs duties and other import duties, the official average rate of the dinar established on the last working day of the week preceding the week in which the amount of customs duties and other import duties is determined, in accordance with the law governing customs duties." If the last week's workday is, say, Friday, the official middle course will be valid next week when determining obligations concerning customs and import duties. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic suggested that this position be changed and that it reads: "For the calculation of customs duties and other import duties, the official average average average rate of the dinar is applied in the week preceding the week in which the amount of customs duties and other import duties is determined, in accordance with the law governing customs duties." The difference is obvious. The average for the previous week is taken here, and with the government it's the last established daily, if I may say so, official middle course of the dinar. We think this is simpler and fairer. When the average is said, it takes a daily change for the five or six days, so different oscillations are possible, so there can be one official middle course on Monday, and on Friday some others that are applied, etc. If you went on average, you'd avoid these oscillations. In the case of the daily shift of the official course, it does not reflect much different from what the government proposes, but this solution still covers all possible situations. I don't think it's any problem for this amendment to be accepted, because it doesn't change the essence of what it wanted to be regulated by Article 41 of this bill. However, I have to go back to the previous amendment, as I want to show the continuity of the Dossmanian policy in the Republic of Serbia. You are in Article 35, which we covered by the previous amendment, wrote that a resident - a legal person and an entrepreneur keeps foreign exchange currency at the bank or sells them to that bank. You see, it's contrary to a whole chapter called the Foreign Market, where, besides trying to define where that foreign exchange market is located, you tried to taxively specify all transactions that can be made on the foreign market by banks, residents and others participating in the foreign market. If so, and these are the provisions of Articles 38 and 39, then this is the provision given, to sell to that bank, it loses its meaning. If you wanted to point out something else – that from your foreign exchange account to a legal person, unless he wants to trade on the foreign exchange market, he wants to turn it into dinars, then he sells it to that bank, because he has a dinar account with that same bank and shows that value in dinars and these dinars wants to put into payment traffic, because of some of his obligations – it is not regulated by such a formulation, but by a formula relating to the provisions on the sale and purchase of foreign exchanges, where the right to free use of foreign exchanges is guaranteed. Based on this, the owner of the foreign currency that is on the account, I am talking about foreign exchange claims in foreign currency, which he can target, sell and, on that basis, make certain dinars that he throws into a completely different dinar account. It is a methodology, and this is the only way to say "it" to the bank can create a confusion in relation to all these later provisions aimed at regulating the behaviour and transactions on the foreign exchange market, as it can be directly, and we also have this meeting of the interbank foreign exchange market as a specific kind where only certain legal entities can trade. It does not have its width as foreseen for this direct form of foreign exchange trade. I think this provision of article 35 and this word "he", which exclusively indicates that it's about that particular bank where the foreign exchange account is located, is not good, can create confusion, gives priority to the bank, forces one bank. On the basis of holding a foreign currency at a bank, a dinar monopoly is also created in relation to that amount of foreign currency that gets its dinar expression, which I don't think is good. As soon as any legal person and entrepreneur can have more of their current accounts in several banks, etc., according to existing payment rules. I don't think that's a very good solution, because in practice it's going to be interpreted as a monopoly bank where there's a legal person's foreign exchange account that needs to be sold, converted into dinars and shown in another account, which can be interpreted as a kind of restriction on the right of disposal. I have to say, this kind of restriction goes in favor of the creation of a monopoly, and that kind of restriction of availability doesn't deserve judicial protection, and this can't be in the law. So I would like to warn you that the amendment that we have submitted to Article 35 must be adopted, and I would also invite you to adopt this amendment to Article 41, because the average middle rate of the dinar is something much better explained, explained and showed the value of the exchanges in the previous week, which serves as the basis for the calculation next week, rather than if you take a course that was valid on the last working day of the previous week. I hope that amendment will also be accepted, because then this law makes some sense, by thinking that what's stated in paragraph 3 shouldn't have a place here because there's something like that already in customs law, you know. There is already such a provision in customs law that regulates this course and the way of reckoning. In the end, let me just remind you of one more fact. Before, we had a big problem with these exchange rate differences, positive and negative, the way of the calculation, and then when there was clearing to some markets then there were even more problems, so at one point there was a virtual value for both the job and the virtual showing of our economy completely. On that basis, we have some claims and some obligations to Eastern European markets, and this is not the story for Arab countries, it's quite similar, although it's not a classic clearing. Those are unexplained questions still. I have to say that when accessing this problem like this, then there's a possibility that there's always a difference; for now I don't expect a big one, because there's still a course, but in the case of a disorder, there can be a big difference that significantly disrupts actual statements of values, work and business results of legal persons. And this is possible to be done in a given period for some indicators, business of some companies, again selected enterprises, I have to remind you, because it's theoretically possible to keep foreign exchange funds in the account, to apply the official course established, it is accountingly shown, and after a few days a transaction is made and that course gets completely other dimensions. You can see for yourself what the situation will be like if this is followed by an inadequate methodology with the positions of obligations that exist on the basis of these assets and those transactions towards the State. A kind of catalyst for these things is our stock market and these markets where foreign exchange is traded. That is why, among other things, we wanted to draw attention with this amendment to the need to intervene in paragraph 3. This formulation that Mr. Sarovic predicted and proposed and how fairer it is, because it takes into account the overall process that took place in the previous week and which is of an impact on the determination of the official course.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28889	Any other MPs? National MP Goran Jaksic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28890	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a matter of seeing, of course everything depends on one side or the other when you look when it's more suitable and what's more convenient. At the same time it can be accepted and the variant of each other. The variant given in the bill means Section 3, that the middle course is determined for the next week practically the last working day of the preceding week, is the thing that will be, you can ask people who are importers, for them much simpler. For them it is often much more important to have more accurate insight into the obligations they have towards the state, and that is the thing that is generally known, because time is the most common problem and time is very important to them in the work they do; of course, the more serious it is to them and the more important that time. I say, it has turned out many times that it is very important to them that they can, almost minutely, get a calculation of what is the obligation when it comes to customs and other import duties. The variant proposed in the amendment can, of course, also be one of the variants, but the issue of fairness there may be a little debate. In what way? In the sense that sometimes it's more convenient when you take only Friday as the last day or some other working day of the week, depending on the variation of course, and sometimes it's more convenient to take an average for the previous week, so it's a matter of seeing. I think the position here was well-chosen, that it is clearer, clearer and much more convenient for the importers to see exactly on the last day of the previous week what is the course they can count on when it comes to obligations to the state they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28891	Thank you. According to the same amendment, MP Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28892	The resident - legal person and entrepreneur keep foreign exchanges at the bank or sell them to that bank. So that certainly doesn't mean any restriction on the availability of foreign exchanges. Exchanges made after export may be used if they are held in a foreign exchange account for payment of foreign exchange liabilities or are allocated to a dinar account by selling to the bank. Since entrepreneurs have the full freedom to hold their assets, they have current accounts with as many banks as they consider necessary, this is no limit available to foreign exchanges, but simply a business decision by entrepreneurs. Since from the time the order for payment to the foreign partner is given to the moment when that money comes to the foreign exchange account most often runs around 24 hours, there is no reason for something so spectacular to happen in that time and that the entrepreneur must sell foreign currency to another bank rather than to that bank. So this is defined -- he's holding foreign exchanges in that bank, or he's selling them to that bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28893	Thank you. I'm sorry, please, she didn't, she talked about the amendment and the examples, I follow closely, let's be correct. I closely monitor the presentations, the information is provided as to why someone considers it necessary to accept or not accept the amendment, the practice data and the law, and in this regard it is not possible to respond. I'm using my right, be kind, you'll get a chance to cover it. It is the right of the President to appoint, under Article 104, paragraphs 1 and 2 to give a replica. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric, and after that, Mr Krasic will explain. We need tolerance and understanding. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28894	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, studying this law, working on making amendments and preparing to defend these amendments, I can conclude that whoever wrote this bill in the near past or near has had a stroke of the brain. I'll try to explain it in the amendment to Article 42 that I filed. In fact, article 42 is found in chapter VII where protection measures are spoken of. Given that there is a possible disturbance in the balance of payments, when the movement of capital causes or threatens to cause serious difficulties in the implementation of monetary policy and foreign exchange policy, which is the result of excessive inflow or outflow of capital from the Republic, the Government, on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia, can react in the following ways, so 12 cases in which the Government can intervene to prevent this situation, i.e. to overcome it. This time I will not comment on those ways that we in the SRS, of course, consider, if the other amendments submitted by fellow SRS MPs are accepted, and this intervention too, this law will be improved and I will not comment on nine cases which aim to resolve this situation, but three cases of the numbered 12 who should in no way be allowed to stand here and thus try to overcome this situation. Here's why. I suggested that point 3 be deleted in point 1. Point 3 says to limit the payment and collection of payments made on the basis of obligations and claims in foreign affairs. To limit payment – imagine what kind of situation we will bring our partners who are doing some business with ino-partners, i.e. companies that are based abroad, if there is a suspension or payment restrictions, or if our company, or if our business entity has realised certain exports or services, so it says - don't pay me now. This points to inconclusion in the thinking of the legislator of this law and it is simply inadmissible. In which way it can be intervened to prevent certain things, the proposer gave at point 7 of this article and said – to limit the provision of guarantees or guarantees, deposits or other means of security in favour of the non-resident. It is also possible to intervene in such a way and then this disorder will be prevented. Then I suggested that the point 8 be deleted, in which the proposer says it is prescribed, i.e. to introduce a mandatory deposit of a certain percentage of the foreign currency deposit at the expense of the National Bank of Serbia. What is being achieved here? Here we will put into a situation where there is an agreed, agreed or dictated market business, and no market business is encouraged here. Point 11 provides – to prescribe the obligation to enter profits to residents who carry out economic activity abroad unless it is reinvested abroad. This can't be prescribed. We must continue to develop with our businessmen a sense of belonging and love for our country, for our people, and in such a way that we can create feelings about them and how they should behave in business with abroad. Furthermore, it is very interesting how the Government, not accepting my amendment, explained, and this also stands in the position of the 2nd member, it is said - the measures set out in Item 1 of this article can be applied as long as the disturbances that have led to them are brought, and for the longest six months since their adoption. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you remember that at the time of the "Sabbe" action, Vladan Batic suggested that only 15 minutes of death be imposed and that he completes what he intended, or what he intended to do towards his political opponents. Imagine, it would take 15 minutes, this would take six months, and what are the consequences, the consequences that can never and in no way be removed again, and it would be a great damage. It is inadmissible, but Serbian citizens have won such foolish thinking in the last elections, and certainly those who think this is how this area should be regulated and this attitude towards Serbian citizens will win the next SRS-led elections. In addition to the fact that the government and this bill don't care enough about the citizens of Serbia, I have to give you one example, I hope you won't mind me, from where I come from, from Love, where the production of raspberries is one of the more serious actions, and what problems the producers of raspberries face. In fact, with 50 dinars and 60 dinars today, the price has fallen to fantastic 35 dinars. And let me tell you who goes to the raspberries and who reads them – children who didn't go to school go to the pensioners to, because pensions are the way they are, a little bit of their home budgets are fixed, but they can't fix the conditions there. On one occasion, the Minister of Agriculture, now vice-president of the government, recommended that raspberries producers be able to solve these problems, and said – you need to introduce more modern measures in the system of production, you need to increase your raspberries. As if it were in the areas of Love, Little Zvornik, Loznica and Krusnja. What they could do, they did it. You can't put that in a factory hall there, so you do that production. One more thing, we MPs, will agree and the President of the Assembly, he has said it several times, we do it in difficult conditions; of course, those who work here, who are here from the beginning to the end of the working day, who submit amendments, explain them, talk to citizens and try to find the answer and some solutions to their problems, but here we are in this air conditioning room. Those who deal with the production of raspberries and harvest do not have such conditions and opportunities; often they go out to their raspberries at four or five o'clock in the morning and stay there until the end, until they break down. Then there's someone who offers them a fantastic price of 35 dinars. What's that gonna lead to? It will lead to even greater poverty, but it is not the biggest problem, but it is a bigger problem that we will be in a situation that next year we do not have the production of what is safe for the country strategic product, or we will have it, but to a significantly reduced extent. It is known that this price is different in buying places in Serbia, but raspberry is a highly sensitive product, which can only last one day in such a way and unless it is satisfied with the price it has in Krupanj or Mali Zvornik cannot drive it to Sabac, Merošin or any other place where it could achieve a higher price. I think these are the problems that this government should be dealing with, and all of this could and probably farmers from other areas could be protected by the fact that that Trizon, buffalo or whatever it is called, that Simonovic and a number of other frauds returned the money they robbed, certainly Tadics, and those who took millions of euros on the highway payment ramps in one month. That money should come back from those who robbed, they should go to the jail for the fine they deserve, and those money to help those who sell the cherry today at the price of 18 dinars, because the price of production and cherry and raspberries is far higher than the one paid for it without talking about needs. These citizens tend to reconcile their obligations neatly and honestly, very correctly to their country, because they love and try (unlike this government and Tadic's party, who wants to ruin everything left) to put this country in order, because they want to keep it until the SRS comes to power and we promise them that it will surely go better from that moment on, not suddenly and not immediately, but it will certainly be better day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28895	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28896	I didn't mean to, but when you called me out... No, please, I'm listening to you, Mr. Markovic, I understand what you wanted. You see, it's not good when MPs... But I really appreciate it, everyone has a right to their own opinion, and this pay phone is a place where opinions should be presented. In that context, I just got off the phone, because I just can't figure out that someone comes out and doesn't see that there's a word in Article 35 of Section 2 -- that, that, that. It's about something very specific, it's about the bank, but it's just that bank, that bank. Then it came out here with a repeat of what the Radicals have been saying since this morning; there could be error among some viewers, and they would say, "Is it possible that radicals have increased the number of messengers in the People's Assembly?" That's why I had to react, because the law here is defended by not challenging the attitudes of the SRS, but it's kind of showing up. We want to make a clear difference because of the voters, so there are no confusions. To go back to what Mr. Sreto Peric explained. Article 42 of Article 1 contains 12 reasons why the Government, on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia, can bring, to set a safeguard measure, or 12 types of safeguard measures. I have to tell you that at least seven of the measures proposed here represent, which would be the usual regular work to be done by the NBS. Why did you raise it to a level of protection, something that needs to be prevented from being introduced in order to prevent far more severe consequences because of some unfavourable movements on our market, it's not clear to me at all. In the general tendency to release all shackles, disciplines, approaching Europe so quickly that I'm just afraid that it doesn't skip England, so it doesn't fall into the Atlantic, these restrictions are now being introduced, and that's still being done for six months. Now you tell me whether these six months from the day the government brought it, so it can last, either in the year six months or only six months for each measure; there is no precise solution, but broadly to the corners, so that it may be applied by the pot. That's the whole point of private law, absolutely private law. First, what you stated in article 42 in the introductory sentence or several introductory lines of the first position is one situation, and you're saying in practice that this will never happen while you're in power, but well, let's take theoretically that it's possible for that to happen. He says, limit the payment and payment of payments incurred on the basis of obligations and claims in foreign affairs. Just to remind you, at the time of the sanctions, NBJ, in the first part when the National Banks were republics and provinces and when some measures were taken, you wrote even whole books challenging this right of the state at the time and saying that you were simply amazed that some of the liquids of the market economy in Serbia that was bombed, even the Pope said -- when you were going to bomb Serbs, and so on. You've been virtually acting, how the market economy should live, can bombs, and can market economy. Now you're making a reservation. Point 8: Preserve the deposit of a certain percentage of the foreign currency deposit on the NBS account. It's the real NBS and she can always use it. So there is a course, whether the state is able to service its obligations to abroad, because it's all regulated by the NBS Act, but this last point at 11) is recognised that the Serbian Radical Party was right when it submitted the amendment to one of the previous members. To see what a safeguard measure is, therefore - to prescribe the obligation to earn income to residents who carry out economic activity abroad unless it is reinvested abroad. You see, you're now going with a broad formulation, a reinvestment, and I'm connecting you to that member where you said that a resident of the Republic of Serbia can, on the basis of a profit he has done abroad and with the foreign exchanges he holds there to deal with credit operations towards a non-resident abroad. You see how that changes, how attitudes are expressed, how everything and everything is inserted in order to put up with this paper. This law depends, as does all the regulations that come from the area of finance, from the finance minister and from those dear and close to him, especially business partners. Mr. Markovic, the public wants to know if you're sure, since you ordered Dinkic to go to Ireland yesterday, that he will return? Look, there's a great danger, please let me finish, so answer me, I'm seriously distracting you, because yesterday we had some papers, and there's a very thorough story, although the journalists don't report anything, but there's a story about some Trifunovic who, during the trial, wanted to go to the toilet, and when they turned around, there are 27m euros missing, a close friend of the gentleman who pretends that the President of the Republic is in this free zone across the street, the building of the presidency, where the performance is -- me and democracy, the President of the Republic; he's distracting the people, exulting everyone in Serbia with some of his views. It was an expert on Trifunovic, but he's gone, he's gone, the money's gone, everything's gone, and we still can't get a notice. As I had the chance to hear yesterday, it is forbidden for the media to write about it and I simply fear, given that there is continuity in these flights, it is a little geographically disturbed Cyprus - Ireland, and there are some islands in Ireland with strange names, you can expect anything when it comes to Mladjan Dinkic. After all, you felt it best on your skin, so you made a clear distinction and said that you and that mob had nothing to do with it, you left that party. I commend you here, since you were right, but I am expressing concern about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what will happen if Mladjan Dinkic does not return from Ireland, what will happen to these people who swear to Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28897	Please, Mr. Krassic, we're not talking about oaths. We said a few times, people swear in church, and then after they changed their minds, at least we looked at each other. It was a clear question whether I was expecting everyone I sent back somewhere, I'm talking about official records, of course, to be expecting it. Otherwise, nothing has changed in geography, I guess it's not possible, as it was said during the exposure before that, when you skip England to be America, no, the next one's really Ireland, so since nothing's changed, it's going to come back, Atlantic, I'm sorry. I take this as an additional political argument, not as a professional question. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28898	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the Serbian people and hundreds of thousands of victims, millions of victims who suffered during the unremembered economic sanctions of the UN against our country and our people and here in Serbia and west of Drina and Danube, Mr Milorad Mircic has submitted an amendment to delete Article 43. This amendment allows the NBS, if it is the will of the UN organisation, which is a mere instrument in the hands of the United States that implements an incredible military and economic force against all humanity, to respect those sanctions applicable to other countries and nations, and introduced by the UN, or the UN Security Council. I have to get you back to 1992, but these are the tragic pages of our people's history here and here, and in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and in May of that year, when more Banja Luka babies were forced into sanctions against our country and the people lost their oxygen and, unfortunately, the last girl who survived recently died. Not to mention thousands of victims, sick people, those who lost their jobs, who got sick and today are being treated for the most serious diseases, the inability for doctors to do their job without medication and without basic medical means to protect their patients, to have children normally go to school, to have their parents school them, to feed; about the position in which the entire nation was found because of the military force. The fact is that America's administration and today, through the process of globalisation that's going on all over the world, resisting righteous humanity, is trying to induce and create crises on the hotspots where it suits it, primarily out of economic interests, or where it simply doesn't suit the regime. The same administration, with the help of all those who sided with such a policy, was particularly anti-Serbian, did so systematically during the sanctions, and after the recognition of US officials, and especially after writing one of their well-known publicists, Tim Marshall, who described it all in his book "The Shadow Game" published after the five-octobaric coup in 2000. The U.S. administration, headed by then-President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Madlen Olbright, who testified to the Serbians, as well as the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, last year during the testimony of the murdered Slobodan Milosevic, and pointed out that for years before and before his departure in the Hague show, she systematically prepared certain political structures in our country to take over power in order to blindly listen to what this greatest and economic power requires of them, which should lose that power and that all people oppose it, has done everything today as a country to be worth destroying; which is worst of all, to occupy us one part of the territory, that our people cannot return to their eternal fires, to bear so many human casualties. Because, remember, what we lost as a people by losing so many children, so many young men, so many mothers, mothers, wives, who were killed by disease, the direct consequences of sanctions, bombings, we can never make up for. We must fight and not accept such a member of the law and fight for our place in the world where they will respect us as equal partners and make co-operation with all countries and nations in the world, but without conditions and without such humiliation to all citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people and everyone else who lives here, because it has brought us many torments and many evils to the citizens of Serbia. Recently, almost two months ago, a third congress of world patriots in Moscow, where I participated in the work of congresses as a member of the SRS delegation led by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, participants from 17 countries in the world. There were representatives of the most human countries, I mean China, India, Indonesia, of representatives of the Russian Federation from almost all former Russian republics, participants of countries from the West, France, Belgium, friendly parties from Japan. Our common conclusion and the first point of the resolution that we have made was precisely that: that every nation and every state that does not want to interfere with any military force in its internal affairs and refers to countering the policy of globalisation, which today is the greatest evil after fascism and communism that happened to man in the 20th century. If we don't stand up to it the way we want it, through cooperation with everyone in the world who is willing to work with us in a business and political way, if we don't keep our national dignity and watch above all our Serbian business, then it won't lead to anything good. Because you can see that even today, many obedients, above all America and certain Western forces, but as their rejected puppets, have long run out, ready for one reception, for a handful of talks, for a coffee shop with an American ambassador, or for some of the officials with whom they plan to make some suspicious business, sell the interests of the state and the people, and to humiliate us in the worst possible way and mud wherever they arrive. You saw that this mobster, who is a close associate of Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, was a certain Trizon who robbed Serbian citizens of 27m euros, in addition to funding thief Boris Tadic and the DS campaign, participated in paying for Serbian coke in the US Congress, what to do – to fight SRS policy, a policy that is the only perspective in all respects, and in international-political, for internal stability, for peace in the state, for economic prosperity and social justice. We are fighting thieves such as Boris Tadic and DS, and all other peoples in the world who see that the UN Security Council, which is against the law, has decided against all international legal norms to form an anti-Serbian Hague case where only judges of Serbs are being tried, and Serbs such as Naser Oric, Ramush Haradinaj and others are being released... You've seen that this world injustice that America is directly conducting through the U.N.'s organs is actually something that we need to raise our voice against. It should be done by every honest man, every Serbian patriot, a Serbian citizen who doesn't want that kind of evil to happen to us again. They go one step further, along with the fact that they bombed the Iraqi people, after the bombing of our people, that they destroyed one of the oldest civilizations in the world and are ready to continue threatening Iran and all those who disobey. Here, today, some daily newspaper in Serbia, passing on the writings of Western commentators and analysts, reported that George Bush, the current US president, had given the order to the State Department and directly to the US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to make a plan for the so-called State Department. The economic recovery of Cuba after Fidel Castro's death. We must, if they don't know it already, and they have been informed by a colleague of Mr. Markovic, Mr. Ricardo Alarcon, the President of the Cuban Parliament, that Fidel Castro is alive and well. In August of this year, he will turn 80, jubilee birthdays, 80 years old, is a friend of the Serbian people and states. And, most importantly, after 40 years of incredible economic sanctions that the United States is carrying out against the Cuban people, and Castro, and all other Latin American countries, such as Bolivia, Venezuela, as well as all those numbered participants of congress that I mentioned, want only one thing, and that is that peace, economic prosperity, and that all nations can normally live in their own country and territory. We Serbian radicals, who have expressed fighters for the protection of national and national interests, because of this consistent policy, and above all because of the fact that we have always been prepared, after that people's "pop pop, Bob" to tell everyone what kind of person, who serves whose interests, who works for whom, to predict, unfortunately, tragic events because we have recognised such a role above all America, so today we enjoy the greatest trust in the Serbian electoral body and among other citizens who are not Serbian national and who are also ready for the next elections to vote for SRS policy. Only the wise state policy and what Mr Tomislav Nikolic does, in collaboration with all those who wish us well, which has shown numerous meetings with representatives of Asian, African, Latin American countries and with many others who wish us good and progress in the world can bring prosperity to the state and people. This would be a humiliation if such a member remained, which is a sort of alleged international obligation, but the system may or may not, as stated here by a university member asking for Mr Mircic to be deleted, Article 43. Because we are the most suffering people in this area, perhaps in the whole world, you should accept this amendment, in order to help others who resist, above all, the military supremacy and force that America wants to carry out, especially with economic blackmail and sanctions, to help them exercise their rights and live freely in their own country, which is what we Serbs have always wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28899	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must return with only a few sentences to the amendment submitted by MP Mircic and ask if it is possible that we who have suffered so much suffering under unjust sanctions... However, the whole population of Serbia did not bear the burden of sanctions, some had to do with abroad, went to Segedin for seminars, courses on how to bring down the regime, received suitcases of money, and hence the institution "coffer". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to go back to another law that is still in the process and we haven't voted on. Today, I have the hand of the journal Eparchya "Wissy Blesser", where the Holy Serbian Orthodox Church, His Holiness the Patriarch Paula and Mr Episcopal wire warns us folk MPs who will press one of the three buttons to bring or challenge the law on ID cards. Holy Mother Serbian Orthodox Church can only warn, His Holiness Patriarch Paule can only warn, and it is up to us to decide whether we will remain human or become numbers or become chips; whether we will have at least a little privacy or whether everything will be controlled by the state and those who can at any moment abuse and the opportunities that this chip provides them. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your consciousness and your conscience to close the door to Orwell in 1984, not to allow us to be placed in a tower and literally counted as sheep. You have no right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to make slaves of the citizens of Serbia. I'm talking about the ruling structure and the furniture, the ruling coalition, because it's going to depend on them. The SRS will certainly vote against this law, but if you disobeyed the advice of the SRS MPs, if you did not obey the amendments of the SRS MPs, listen to his sanctity to Patriarch Pavel and the Serbian Orthodox Church until it is too late. On behalf of the SRS, MP Bozidar Koprivica, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment to Article 52 requiring that Article 4 be changed and that it reads "against the solution set out in Article 3 of this article can be lodged with the Ministry of Finance's tasks within 15 days of the date of the delivery of the solution". After Article 4, a new position 5 is added, which reads: "The appeal does not delay the execution of the solution". Position 5 so far becomes item 6. In order to make it clear to the Serbian citizens what this is about, Article 52 provides for foreign exchange control: "The foreign currency control of Article 46 of this law is carried out by the foreign inspector. During the exercise of direct control, the foreign exchange inspector must have official legitimacy. The foreign exchange inspector shall take into account a solution requiring the correction of irregularities, i.e. illegality and order the enforcement of measures, under the threat of forced enforcement. "Station 4 says: "The solution of Article 3 is finally. "The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica requests that attitude 4 be changed and read as follows: "The decision of the 3rd member may be filed against the Ministry of Finance's decision within 15 days of the date of the delivery of the solution." The reason is very simple, wherever you find thieves, criminals, secises in many of the services that are in the state's apparatus, because you recently found that thirty and something just in the first run-in on payment payments robbed the state for billions of dollars, these are government officials, these are officials of the Ministry of Capital Investments. As far as I know, they're all from New Serbia. Who guarantees that this inspector will be so honorable that his solution can finally be? You don't allow a man to complain about a solution, so that any abuse by an inspector can be corrected at some higher level in the ministry. I think one man can be dishonest, I don't think the whole Dinkic's ministry is unfair, on the contrary, there are very honest people there, so someone's gonna get that appeal in their hands, so they're gonna check and say the inspector was wrong. If you give this much authority to the inspector, the question is how much they're going to ask for a racket to keep him from giving him the solution that he's finally given. The question is whether you're opening up this way of robbing those who were forced to the next day, when the inspector knocks on the door, to open it. You know, at the time when they were blue coats, he takes off his coat and hangs on a chivalrous and if there's no envelopes in the pocket of a blue coat, there's a solution that's forbidden, etc. Where is the certificate that all inspectors are honest and honorable? Since a lot of inspectors came from the "bulldozer revolution" to various inspectorates and services, almost everyone who came like that I don't believe, and there's no reason to trust him with this one that's addressed to these jobs. So, let's adopt this amendment, let's let the man complain about the inspector's solution, so that the solution can't be final, so let the ministry then make a decision on the solution. He can't cut a first-degree organ right now. You come into a situation to literally fill in the inspectors and they won't ask for envelopes anymore, they'll look for suitcases, they're used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28901	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28902	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the proposed amendment requires two-stage decision-making. One of the reasons for submitting such an amendment and this two-stageness is that I am a minister, i.e. the ministry has insight into how their inspectors work, that this is not the case for the court in the administrative dispute, but for the ministry to do so. It looks very nice, I guess Dinkic thinks it's a success, when he comes out to a press conference and says the tax police have closed down for example in controlling the fiscalisation of shops and facilities. two or three thousand objects, banned work for 30 days etc. If the law is passed, is it good or bad, it must be respected, but did you ask the question whether all these solutions were made in accordance with the law. During these inspections, I received a large number of complaints from persons who felt that beating of the tax police, that the tax police were in the process of controlling the direction of workers in the facility to commit a violation, or to act contrary to the law. Do you know about that? Such a custom exists and is done by a group of inspectors. They're being transferred from Kragujevac to Nis, Nis for Pogorec, Pogorec for Smederevo, etc. So, it's important to move out, not to be among its citizens and then to move that harasser who conducts the tax police, closes the facilities, sentences are drastic, and thus leads workers in these facilities to break the fiscal registers law. I'm sure it is. It was enough to ask which inspector he was, this and that, the records are identical, is the same way that this procedure took place to break the law. It is clear that the field inspector makes workers do something like that. Who works behind a fiscal register or is a slave manipulator in a trade store doesn't have to know the law in detail. He knows he has to issue a bill. If he's going to issue the bill first and take the money or if he's going to take the money and issue the bill, it doesn't matter to him. It is for your inspectors. As soon as he takes the money and doesn't print the bill, it's over, even though he hasn't put that money in the register yet. That's what your inspectors do. When the law makes it possible to refer the complaint to the ministry, and you find that a group of inspectors are doing so, then you'll have those bastards working for effect to get out of the inspection service. As it ends in court, who knows when and how it will, and often asks the question of how effective the courts are, is anyone at all ready to engage in that adventure, because what they will experience – they will only experience charging various court fees, paying the person who will represent it before the court; and even when they get a judicial solution, the question is whether they will be able to implement it or not, because often there are no judicial solutions that courts can't implement, again because of some different circumstances and situations relating to abuses, especially when it comes to DS. I'll just remind you, when it comes to Kljajevic, that he was in front of a court president in 2004. That's when Boris Tadic signed his first abolic. He asked Kostunica not to get rid of Kljajevic. It took you two years to arrest him, when it got too bad for you. So that oligarchy is in the Democratic Party. You're negotiating with her. Who you're with, that's who you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28903	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28904	Ladies and gentlemen, the chapter of the Penal Code provides for two criminal acts that regulate this law. The SRS amendment intervenes for both crimes provided for in this law, because we believe that all crimes should be in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code should be the only place to regulate criminal matter and define what are crimes, which are not. This is not the only case that in the bill, in addition to the violation provisions, criminal acts are contained. There are certainly over 50 laws that were passed in the term of this assembly, where there are crimes scattered into 50 laws. The point is that crimes, because of their social dangers and the importance they have, must be united in the Criminal Code, whether we change that code once a month or twice a month. It's just that all crimes need to be in one place. After all, the Constitution itself in defining criminal acts defines that the only crimes are the acts provided for by law. So it introduces the principle of legality. However, the Constitution does not say that criminal acts must be covered by the law, meaning in one place, but from a broader interpretation of the Constitution, that's exactly what he meant. At the very end of the line, we have adopted the Criminal Code as parliament and it obliges us that all crimes must be contained in one place, so that citizens can, in an easy and fast way, learn about what they are, what they are not. Such a methodology and legal technique, where almost every other law that comes before this assembly for adoption contains criminal provisions, you create confusion and inability for citizens to know what is a crime, which is not. The Government’s explanation for why this amendment is not accepted states that the Criminal Code does not provide for this criminal offence, and this particular criminal act refers to the sale and purchase of foreign exchanges by natural persons, and to checks that are foreign currency, without the authority of the NBS. We do not dispute the need for this criminal act, so this crime should exist, but not in this law, but in the Criminal Code. The government, and the government did not understand this amendment, replied – the criminal code did not provide for this crime, so we put it into this law. So he's playing deaf phones. The point is that this crime and this member should not be contained in the foreign exchange law, but in the Criminal Code. Almost all the laws that are proposed, including for this law, the Government and the Proposer always cites compliance with EU standards, in particular with the IMF, with various directives, EU recommendations, or I don't know all of which organisations. However, when laws are proposed, they must comply with real living conditions and the needs of citizens. Not all countries in Europe are at the same level of social and economic development so that all norms and legal systems can be uncritically rewritten and applied to each country. There are also considerable differences within EU countries in their internal legislation on various issues from various areas of social life. There are great differences between EU members themselves in their social and economic development, and then they themselves adapt certain regulations to their needs. In principle, we should do so, too, but there is a clean Resavia copying school here, everything is prescribed by directives, instructions, orders, whether the OSCE, the EU, whether the IMF, the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development is irrelevant, depends entirely on the law to law, but no one is trying to bring certain social and economic relations into line with the needs of the citizens of this country. The essence of law-making is to regulate certain social relations from certain areas in the best possible way, where they will meet the needs of the majority of the population. So, laws are passed according to the needs of most citizens, not one group or one stakeholders group of people who, through legal regulations, want to achieve some of their own personal or group interests. I think there is a persistent and non-critical tendency to go to Europe, as if we are not in Europe, but I don't know where, and the desire to open windows wide open towards the EU, and I'm afraid that these wide open windows will not only give us ishias or make us miss. It should be taken into account when proposing all laws what the country's concrete interests are, not about EU recommendations or some international organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28905	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, thank you. After a break that will be up to 15.00 hours, we will continue to discuss the amendment submitted by MP Petar Jojic to article 58. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 58. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28907	The provisions of Article 58 in the draft foreign exchange law are contrary to the provisions of our criminal law. This could be called secondary legislation. You have the main criminal law where the Criminal Code has been codified by all essential crimes and has provided for a number of sanctions for all crimes committed in the Republic of Serbia. In Article 58. The proposal was proposed: "Whoever executes the payment, payment or issues a payment order, i.e. transfer the non-resident of the amount exceeding 100,000 euros, on the basis of a contract in which no real price is indicated or on the basis of untrue documents, will be punished for the criminal offence of prison from one to ten years. "Article 58. The bill is wrong, incomplete, inaccurately defining the crime. Why isn't a title put here above article 58, to be said, a crime and give him a name that's a crime. This is the area of secondary legislation, as I said, as foreseen and proposed in Article 58. Our legislation is so judgmental, it's so broken the legal system that criminal sanctions are prescribed and in regulations where absolutely no place is available. What does this provision of article 58 have to do with what is proposed? You have provisions in the Criminal Code that regulate abuse of official office and other criminal acts. Therefore, the provisions of the Criminal Code must be applied, and since we have 555 members in the Criminal Code, 550 of these names and types of criminal offences are foreseen. Why prescribe such a punishment in this law? As a provision falling under the secondary legislation, the proposer suggests that this crime which has no definition, therefore there is no title, is not specified, incorrectly, contrary to the provisions of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, envisions a prison sentence from one to ten years. Then why do we need the Criminal Code, and recently passed the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia? If we have a new coded Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, why do we now have these brochures, this looks like a brochure, one rulebook, and not a good and modern law, we're predicting in the secondary legislation for 10 years in prison? The professional public, legal, therefore there are lawyers, lawyers, judges, prosecutors and other qualified lawyers, when they see this in practice, they will be baptized and they will not believe that this assembly has no lawyers, no professional service, that the promoter has no expert team who could prepare a good law when it comes to foreign exchange law. I repeat for the sake of the public, professional, legal, since I've been a lawyer for many years and I can't agree, the experts of criminal law when they read this and the draft of this law is published, and it will probably be, you will adopt it, in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", unless the amendment of the SRS is accepted, will indeed have numerous objections and will say – this is not possible to accept, and to believe that it was brought by the National Assembly. We have experts and lawyers in this House, and I am sure that they share my opinion, if the almost new Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia has been codified, I repeat again, in 555 members provided for certain criminal norms, gave the definition of certain criminal acts, and now we have in the secondary legislation a sentence of up to 10 years in prison provided for in Article 58, this is an absolute failure. This is inadmissible. Imagine now, who's going to impose this sentence? Who will impose this penalty if someone makes payment and payment, in this amount provided for in Article 58? Court, or is it going to be another organ? And whoever gets even criminal charges against a person will take that criminal charges and will compare the standard that provides for a sentence of up to 10 years with criminal code norms that provide for entirely different criminal sanctions for such and related crimes. You see, it's not enough in this law to say - a crime. A criminal act must be given a name. This is indeterminate. A criminal act must be defined to perfection, to make it clear to anyone who reads this law and to whom this norm applies, therefore to an ordinary citizen. Therefore, the SRS places a number of objections in the case of criminal provisions in the secondary legislation. We absolutely disagree with such a criminal policy, because we believe that the Criminal Code is the place where sanctions for criminal acts should be provided for. Finally, after 200 years, Serbia passed the Criminal Code. The Criminal Code and its provisions are not only codified, nor are they harmonised now that we have adopted, I will remind you that Serbia has aligned with EU countries and Europe's 12000 laws. So, this is nothing new to pass one law or one law and to say - it is a code and these are the norms of the innovation of political parties in power in the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you that our criminal legislation, and even civil law, has been built up quite well for decades, harmonised, and many laws have been written by our experts, professors and academics and experts from Sorbonne, who have completed their studies with tens of them at that French university. No one should be so smart as to say – now we've invented this, it's all new since we came to power. So, the coalition of the democratic movement, which calls itself that, thinks all this is now the best thing in the world. Secondly, it bothers me, as a lawyer and a member of the SRS, especially when the draft law sets out and indicates – this is a alignment with European community regulations and a European Community dictatorship. This is not good, according to the European Community's dictatorship; I believe that no one's dictatorship should be acted upon, and especially by the dictatorship of those who have such a relationship with Serbia, they also have double standards in the area of legislation and in other areas. So why do we have to at all costs, if the minister came from that and that party, he is now invited to make one proposal and everyone in his coalition say, well, that's a good proposal, because he gave our coalition partner, so let us adopt him. On the contrary, we don't need to adopt everything and everything. Good laws should be proposed. Of these 230 laws that have passed for this term of office in this assembly, which have been adopted, in practice it happens not to pass for a month, interventions are immediately required to access amendments and additions to these regulations and those laws. Many laws will not, and there are lawyers from all political parties, and I am confident that they are thinking quite logically and correctly, many provisions and many laws will never apply in our legal system. We have extremely good experts on all areas, and criminal and civil legislation, experts who can pass laws, but not by dictatorship. The SRS is against every dictatorship, therefore, at all costs. We had a case in So Panchevo today, they say, this is a compliance with European standards. Okay, which one? When we asked the question -- which European standards, where it says it, where the warrant, the local authorities are silent because they invented it and tried to trick the council that it was someone's dictatorship and that it was the European community's intention. That's not good. It should not be falsely represented and falsely called to the European community and when and when it is not necessary. Here, when it comes to this law, I've had more questions for the government's representative, so the promoter, and the minister in charge of this law is gone. It is necessary for the minister to be in front of MPs, it is an obligation, regardless of what is done by the Rules of Procedure as it is, but the MP for the minister is a god in parliament, because the MPs of all political parties in this parliament are passing laws, not a minister, depending on whether one law is passed or not. So it depends on each individual, the MP. What kind of humiliation is parliament, what kind of practice is that? You have ministers who come and explain the bill, and you have one number of ministers who have estranged from parliament, they think they were elected by someone third, not parliament. It's a void and a flaw in our Rules of Procedure. In our Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, it must be foreseen that when the minister proposes the law, he must sit down and answer the questions of the MPs. We cannot allow this parliament to become a voting machine. The minister wrote this through his trainees or his advisers and delivered it to the president of the Assembly, the president of the Assembly multiplied and divided the MPs and now the MPs should ask a question, but they do not know who to ask. The President of the Assembly is not in charge of this, does not belong to his authority to answer the questions raised by MPs, as this exclusively falls within the power of the minister. If I am allowed by Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, I am taking the opportunity to address the citizens of Panchev, and also to listen to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that tonight was such a disastrous situation in the town of Panchev, because there was a haiarium in the southern zone, they cannot establish, and they have three factories, which polluted so many cities that the citizens were preparing to move out of the city. Please, there have been so many harmful substances and dangerous poisons, and waste for all of Serbia, it is even assumed that in the Panchev waste refinery, dangerous matter, and from other countries in the environment. Nobody knows that. So no one takes measures, and 1,500 people die of cancer in Panchev a year. Government representatives must act. Here, when it comes to foreign exchange law, if you'll excuse me, only two more sentences. From Pancheva Petrochem, it's $170 million a year. There's nothing left for Panche. The refinery was relocated, or its headquarters in New Belgrade, and 20 million dinars of employees' salaries also go to New Belgrade; Refinery headquarters in New Belgrade, and the Pancheva Refinery. See, now they can't match it, he says. We can't. Why don't you coordinate to be the seat of Petrochemy, Azotare in Pancheva? And it could be the headquarters of the Novosad refinery and the Pančeva refinery at a distance of 115 kilometers, and the citizens of Pancheva die, and the local authorities in Pancheva... The local government didn't break either, but the Republic of Serbia and the government are not helping the citizens of Panchev save the lives of citizens. 130,000 people have been threatened that they can no longer live there practically without government intervention. And let him not draw foreign exchanges from Panchev, but leave one percent for reconstruction and modernisation. Now the preparation and privatisation of this refinery, while the privatisation of Azotara, is still unknown. Citizens and workers of the industrial zone pay a fat price.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28908	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28909	Mr. Mihailovic, instead of the Government solving life problems and proposing normal laws where anyone reasonable could, by simple observation, understand what the writer meant to say, we have here one insidious form of demeaning the National Assembly, which is all and all things in this format and in this font letter being delivered to the National Assembly. At first, it's written that it's a proposal, so it's thrown away as some kind of bone that people are gnawing and considering, and whoever came up with it somewhere in a sink sitting, is thinking, maybe counting illegally acquired funds or something else, making fun of the National Assembly in a way that makes fun of it as a legislative body. That's why these socio-political workers and journalists are catching other topics that would be interesting for their readers, but to be as far away from life's problems as possible, so that citizens don't pay attention to this demeaning that the government is doing. Article 59. The bill regulates violations. In that article, there are 75 points of view, believe it or not. There are prescribed actions that need to mean a violation for which a fine of 10,000 dinars is prescribed to 1,000,000 dinars. I'm surprised he's not in the exchanges, but well, I guess that's what he has to do, so they agreed to be in the dinars. This applies to the resident (it is from the beginning of a legal or natural person who deals with these affairs), the bank, the non-resident - legal person. First of all, he refers to the legal persons of the residents and the non-residents and the bank. Of the 75 descriptions of the infringements' actions, 75 special offences, Mr Milan Stevovic, with an amendment that submitted an amendment to this article on behalf of the SRS, requested that points 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28 and 29 be deleted. I would now go in this order to explain why the delete is required. I shall immediately state that if this amendment is adopted, then by eight offenses, the provision of the infringements is generally reduced. Here's what's meant to be a violation, and it's about what's covered by the amendment. Point 19), special infringements, if they make payments for purchase abroad from the values of direct investment, as well as debt long-term securities of values other than those of the OECD State and the international financial organisation, and of course a call for Article 13(1). It's a bill of law. Now if you think about it to turn around and see, then you can see that there's only a difference in formulation, but you have to consider the position of Article 13, which simply makes the whole with this previous one and then you can see that there's been a leap. The question arises why only these countries would be covered, which are OECD members, why not some other financial organisations. Then the general question is for all these violations. It's hard for you to find a responsible legal person in the sense of the perpetrator of some offence, because there are several elements here, if I may say so, of the beings of the offence. He says, "If he pays for the purchase." What's paying? Who made the payment? Whoever has the foreign exchange account gave the warrant and the bank that transferred the funds by order. Who? Who's responsible? Both. What if the bank warns its client that he cannot dispose of foreign funds from his account, and he says – I insist, I own the funds, I issue you a warrant, the warrant obliges you to do. He's hitchhiking. This one says, "Goodbye, I'm changing banks, and he's gone and he's done business with another bank." Think about it. Point 20 says – if he makes payments for the purchase of debt long-term securities from abroad whose degree of risk (rejection) and the country of issuers is not prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia (Article 13(2)). What if the National Bank didn't prescribe it at all? That situation is possible. So, selective application. Point 21) — if he makes payments for purchase in the Republic of long-term debt, as well as property securities of value, contrary to the law governing the market in securities of value; that is Article 14(1). When you look at Article 14(1), there is nowhere to talk about foreign funds. Well, then, if you do dinars, you're breaking the foreign exchange law. You have violated the provision, you have committed a violation under this law, and the material provision on the offence is found in Article 13, and Article 13, is referred to the second law. Under that other law, you've also violated it. Then it turns out that for one of the same stores, you're trespassing by two laws. That's exactly how it works out. Read Article 14 paragraph 1 and tell me where the words "devision" are used, "stranger payment" or something that would be related to the foreign exchange law. There's nowhere to go. He says, "Neighbours can make payments to buy in the Republic of long-term debt and equity securities in accordance with the law governing the securities market. "What would be applicable to this area to the foreign exchange law when the Securities Market Act is applied, when the Law on Payments is applied? No, that when Dinkic and his crew say it's a really funny Olympics. Point 22 – if it purchases short-term securities from foreign and domestic values contrary to the NBS Regulation (Article 15). And Article 15 says this: "Paid for buying foreign short-term securities from foreign and domestic market values is made by NBS and by banks under conditions and in the manner prescribed by NBS. "If the NBS doesn't pass regulations, what are we going to do? There's no such thing as a job. If someone does that, do some co-production, here, let's take your Nekerman, he had an unsustainable dinar bill here; after he collects the postage, he collects the amount he needs to Nekerman, he transfers his account to the non-resident dinar account of Raiffeisen Bank, they file a simple application, they make the purchase of foreign exchanges, transfer the foreign exchanges nicely to Varazdin, Austria, etc., it's all clean. Now you're telling me that you've just introduced it as a violation. We're dealing with it, and no one's gonna ask where customs is, where's the tax. Let's see what experts say about point 23 – if he makes a payment to buy foreign short-term securities (Article 15(2)). Article 15(2) says: "Citizens, other than residents under Article 1, cannot make payments to buy foreign short-term securities of value. "Point 24) – if payment is made for the purchase of domestic short-term securities (Article 15(2)). What does that mean? There's no mention of any foreign means of payment. It falls to a judge for violations, and you know what the judges are like now, since Stojkovic is preparing to transform municipal courts for violations, somewhere he's going to shut down, somewhere, uncritical, but very deeseski, what's going to happen? The infringement judge will in Article 15(2), where there is no word on the word "devision", "side means of payment", etc., to punish for the violation of the Law on the Market of Securities of Value. You will again be warned by judges and court practice about the inapplicability of these rules to be adopted. Why didn't you at least put the word "devis" in article 15? It's probably supposed to be. Dinkic's guess is that the one he hates must disappear by all means. Point 27) – if it makes payments for the purchase of financial derivatives in the Republic against the regulation of the National Bank of Serbia (Article 16(4)). There's no mention of foreign exchanges again. There is no buckle anywhere to see that this refers to foreign payment funds and to the availability of foreign payment funds. Point 28) – if it makes payments for foreign investment contrary to the provisions of the laws governing transactions with investment and voluntary pension funds. So to see a violation, you have to take these two laws. You're not in line with those two laws, you're in line with the foreign exchange law. However, no wonder, since you prescribed a sentence from one to ten years in article 58, prison time. If Batic were here, he'd probably have anticipated a death sentence that's being realized within 15 minutes. That used to be the death penalty of us hanging and the death penalty by firing. No one knew what the difference was. From the victim's point of view he didn't get any satisfaction and satisfaction, the man was killed so he was killed, whether he was hanged or shot the same, but he shows the malignancy of a lawmaker who enjoys torture and talks more about him than he should answer. A similar law was proposed by the one who wrote, apparently there are some frustrations. Professor, I see you laughing, you understand what this is about. There's a patient here who's escaped and thinks if the burn documentation is that he's cured. No, the file's just one clue, and if anyone's cured, it's already a state of action, it has to be examined. Point 29) – if he makes payments for investment in investment funds and voluntary pension funds in the Republic, the opposite of the law governing investment and voluntary pension funds. Who's messing with us in the National Assembly? Does this mean that these two laws don't apply, about investment funds and voluntary pension insurance? If these two laws apply, why do you impose a violation of the foreign exchange law from that law, and you said in Article 17(2), the material provision which has been violated. Who's crazy here? We're passing a third law saying there are two other laws. It's a violation under the third law if you've violated the provisions of those previous two laws. I don't know what that Balinian's doing. Does he look at these bill proposals or maybe he can't? I don't think Balinovac should object to this, because you know what Dinkic's like: if someone confronts him, what Dr. Paja would say - screws you; you're not in a transfer, your quota isn't set, the inspection goes immediately and the job is done. That resident doesn't exist anymore, it's Junior's logic, and you see because of that logic what's in the law. If Vučetic is watching this transmission or these judges who do not like radicals very much, let them take this proposal and let them read and say how many normal articles there are members. These normal ones are far less than the other ones. Of course, they send us these ladies from the professional service, those poor girls have to listen to this, they can't respond, and whoever needs to answer went to mating in Ireland. What do we do now? If Mr Dinkic were here and he had listened to these things, he would have come out and said that he was not behind it, I am absolutely sure of it, as he has repeatedly been, when he was a representative under some law, going out for a pay phone and finding an explanation, and he often shared his opinion on the obvious gaps that are happening. I know that once, over a similar objection, he said – those in the legislation told us that it was the sea, and the second time he said – we consulted these police officers, so they determined that formulation. It's not an explanation, it's more of an excuse and an excuse. This law is completely bad, and based on a few points from article 59, I've shown that lawyers will work, both the ministry and the judges. The judge can't wait for a problem like this to come up where the concept can't be interpreted. Even if the college provisions of these two laws are with this third one, the judge just folds the tab and sends it, because he doesn't know if any smart mind is going to see lustration, as Batic would say - castration, because he didn't distinguish between those two things.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28910	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to submit myself, since we are in the same article 59, as my colleague Krasic explained, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on foreign exchange operations, and that is precisely the same Article in Article 59(1) but point 65) – the word "he" is deleted. This article reads, "The fine of between 10,000 and 1,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of the resident -- a legal person, a bank and a non-resident -- a legal person," and at that point 65) says "if he does not hold foreign currency at the bank or sell them to that bank". Again, we have a principled remark that between 10,000 and 1,000 thousand fines were left with the possibility of abuse. Who's going to judge whether someone should be punished with 10,000 and someone with 1,000? So our view is that this is inadmissible, such as the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party, that all the penalties you impose are too severe for you, because you should make sure that many poor people live in Serbia and that, regardless of the needs of the government to fill the budget, you should not do so in this way. High sentences to do that charge. In fact, Article 35 of Article 2 of the Law says: "The resident - legal person and the entrepreneur keeps foreign currency in the foreign exchange account at the bank or sells them to that bank." See, here's the word "he" is too high, I'd even say "problem." I'd ask Mr. Minister, but he's not here, why this very bank where there's a foreign exchange account; why not some other bank and why a restriction? You see, there is immediate doubt, perhaps resident -- a legal person or entrepreneur has some better interest in selling his foreign exchanges to another bank, not the one in which he has a foreign exchange account, and why it prevents him from doing so. Disabling it? I think everyone has the right to sell foreign exchanges to whom he wants and where he thinks he's best. It's his personal right, and you forbid it. You're restricting it by this law. The government's explanation of my amendment was given as if the amendment had been accepted, so now I'm not clear. I mean, the government and I have the same attitude, so it doesn't make sense for me not to accept my amendment. In an explanation for not accepting the amendments, the Government says: "Amendment is not accepted because residents - legal persons and entrepreneurs can keep foreign exchanges with more banks... ". That's what I agree with, and that's what I think, and so far, the practice is that I can keep foreign exchanges with multiple banks. He goes on to say in his explanation: "... and the sale can be made from a foreign exchange account at a bank where he has an account." Well, of course, that's what I'm saying, but it doesn't have to be in that bank selling foreign exchanges, it has to be in one of the banks that has a foreign exchange account. If he's already allowed to have more foreign exchange accounts, maybe he'll sell them where his course is most favourable. Why in that bank? The owner of the currency should have the right to decide, by his choice and estimates, which bank he will sell his foreign exchange assets to, regardless of which bank he operates in foreign trade. So I remind you once again that this word "he" is unnecessary and superfluous, so it needs to be left out, and that will not change the meaning of the law. For all I'm saying, I think you should accept this amendment of mine, if not you now, then MPs in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28912	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28913	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know that someone is probably thinking right now – he can have more accounts in more business banks, he can transfer to another current account, foreign exchange account and sell to that bank. However, some things we must be aware of. In the case of external trade, i.e. not on the territory of the Republic at all, there is a need for the bank to meet certain conditions in order to be able to operate independently on another market other than the one with which the territory is located. I can say that certain banks, especially these banks that allegedly appeared as foreign banks, are in an extremely favourable position than the banks that came from here. All this still comes from 2002, when domestic banks were closed, when their work permit was taken away. Then some foreign banks appeared who had only purchased business space or bought it at an extremely low price and started work on the territory of the Republic. Wasn't it more logical for the governor and then DOS to sell those domestic banks? It didn't make sense to them, because when you sell something, someone has to pay for it. This was much better: to close domestic banks that already have ways of doing foreign trade and external payment traffic, and then to let foreign banks open their own representations here only through which they carry out payment transactions abroad. Because the serious domestic banks have been shut down, these others themselves are unable to carry the job, they have to find a foreign bank as a partner, of course that foreign bank will also charge their fat commission, so that, when it comes to commissions, foreign banks that have been present since 2001, and I have said for a moment that they have come here at all, they are in a more favourable position, because carrying out payment traffic through them is a little cheaper, thanks to the monopoly they have, which was created by the then governor of NBJ Mladjan Dinkic. That part's totally fine. So each one according to its organisational, technical and other abilities does his job on the market and of course everyone wants to be as favourable as possible. However, the problem arises when foreign exchanges are sold, i.e. when the funds received from the export of goods are sold to banks. So if foreign exchange business with other markets is cheaper through these non-resident business banks, it's not from here, it means that the foreign exchanges we sell to these banks are leaving the country one way or another. They're leaving because you have members who say they can be found in other banks' deposits abroad. The fact that someone is nodding, the question is, what about those seven or eight billion euros that you replaced with citizens, which is what's left on savings. Why don't you check out what bank deposits this foreign currency money is that's when it's being saved with these foreign banks? We are aware that with these deposits, these two thugs, Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, bought half the electricity in one specific way, with speculations, with foreign exchange reserves that were in other banks, etc., so we borrowed our own reserves. It turns out, and in practice, it really looks like this law is written for foreign banks that only have their own representations here. So they're the ones who'll be running the payoffs, because they'll do it cheaper, but they're also the ones who'll buy foreign exchanges from the exporters. So there's a certain monopoly. Is there in these allegedly foreign banks one of you close, perhaps some shareholders, shareholders, owners of a share, etc., another story that will be told when you fall from power and when you answer to the courts, but the fact is that one of these restrictive provisions is technically inexplicable. Who cares? If I own foreign exchanges in the bank, I don't have to transfer from one account to another account, to another bank, to pay an expensive commission, so I might sell that bank. I'll make a direct payment to her foreign exchange account. She puts dinars on my current account, and that's where the story is done. Why do you oblige a businessman to have to go into that bank through which he does foreign trade business to directly sell foreign assets? Explain that. Technically, it's no problem at all. That's how much I know about pay traffic. Then why the insistence? The explanation is he can have more money with more banks. Well, it is, but when he transfers funds from one bank to another, he keeps paying a commission from one bank to another. Why do you not directly sell your foreign currency, why do you dispute this right to any exporter and importer, etc., but must via the bank through which payment is carried out? It seems to me that it is exclusively in the function of those banks that have these technical opportunities; these are foreign banks that have a monopoly here because Dinkic is all those domestic banks that could deal with such banks on the world market eliminated, so now we have to deal with these, they didn't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28914	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28915	Mr. Mikhailovich, really strange things happen with these laws. You see, a representative of the government doesn't have the courage to sit down, so then he always invents some time because he obviously can't withstand this criticism of his laws, the government of the Republic of Serbia that he has to defend. For viewers who monitor this transmission, I have to point out that the 57th member is scheduled to commit one crime with a sentence of six months to five years, and then, in the 58th sentence of prison from one to ten years, a member of the 59th is scheduled for fines for violations committed by legal persons, residents, non-residents and banks. And now we've come to a 61st member where fines are scheduled for a misdemeanor allegedly committed by residents - entrepreneurs. I just have to warn you that there's something a little more modest about sanctioning everything that's not at the will of the one who's supposed to defend this law, so, unlike a member of 59, where there are 75 counts in the first place, 75 independent violations, with resident entrepreneurs, there's a kind of humanity of the government's representatives: there's not going to be 75, but there's going to be a total of 41 violations. With this amendment, Mr. Skrbic, the Serbian Radical Party has asked for points 15) and 16 to be deleted, which are practically two violations. Almost identical reasons are similar to those presented for Article 59 where criminal penalties are provided for legal persons, and their relationship is Article 13(1) and (2) of this Act. Since we as a party are consistent, then this amendment is one of the perfectly legal logical consequences of the previous amendments relating to the infringement provisions. However, I really must note that in this policy of punishment coming from the area of finance, it is almost the elemental need to sanction something as a violation of public order, a violation of some discipline, but there is simply a desire to see someone as an opponent to be destroyed. So I'm not surprised that you have ideas about the construction of the crematorium at the meetings of the municipal committees, and I recognize it in these texts. I don't know how you're going to build it, but I think the public prosecutor would have to get involved, because obviously it wasn't an uncontrollable run-off at the municipal board's meeting in Pancheva, but, judging by this rigidity that's happening here, it's about style, understanding the authorities of what she can and how unmistakable she is. Of course, this applies to the government's representative, not to those parties and their representatives here who participate, making a parliamentary majority, because I know these people here, and I know they don't share that opinion, but I just have to realize that there is one gene, one continuity of some sadistic thinking, to destruction. Of course, we are asking for this to be deleted, as mentioned in these points by the National Bank of Serbia, and it appears in many places as an institution and body that prescribes, and in some provisions it proposes to the Government, etc. Here we see this link that within something known as G17 plus, and perhaps not originally going from there, but through some torn individuals with their own stakeholders, simply imposes one unacceptable criminal policy, a team before each of the entrepreneurs and their misdemeanor responsibilities are hardly able to understand this formulation that the entrepreneur responds if he pays for the purchase. An entrepreneur cannot pay by pushing his hand in his pocket and saying, "Here you are, so pay there or buy it for me." It's known how payment traffic is going abroad, what are all the warrants, what are the records? And the very notion of payment here will be very controversial from the point of view of the criminal body, so before you are, I must remind you now, in Articles 4 and 5. The bill of law something relating to a 90-day period extended to 180 days. By extending that deadline for the introduction of foreign exchanges and the collection of claims on the basis of some foreign trade business and the right of the advance payment of goods provided that it did not come from abroad (you have extended those deadlines from 90 days to 180 days), you have elaborated entirely all criminal provisions relating to the infringement. Within that deadline, consulting houses appear; of course, interprets as houses with experts who were waiting for a degree next to a gutter and become great experts without working day. Simply, this law violates something that should be a unique legal order in our country and, of course, we do not want to participate in this destruction, since other more obvious things of a particular party's authority express satisfaction; to remind you, there are balloons inflating and everything that can be bloated as a sign of joy that someone has died or, to be even more precise, hysterical happiness because the state community has broken down, that the Serbs in Montenegro have become a national minority, one of the atypical behaviours that deserve and observation by some other professions. This all shows, of course, that these bill proposals must be seriously observed, that their legal-technical side should be looked at, but that political essence should also be seen. The political essence is terrible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you need to know that, and when it all goes well, it becomes devastating. Just to remind you of yesterday's Nekerman case. He could not fall from Mars, he was created by a DS member who formed someone from abroad with the same name as the Belgrade stock company, based there on a grain road. A few years later, the same company appeared, just under a different name. Of course, business started, but they could only be realised if the institutions and authorities responsible for a job, to control a job, belonged to an interested group. We defined an interesting group yesterday, the government of the Republic of Serbia succeeded in official inspection documents and others who were controlling to identify that organised group. At the head of the group is the one that is in Ireland, then Dejan Simic, then the one who runs the foreign exchange control, the one who used to be the director of the Federal Customs Administration, but that logic has been transferred to this day, now there is some Jeremic, as I see it, and that is related to the post, it seems to me that some last name was Kovacevic. When all this is well concluded, leave a little on the side, away from the public, all of this regularly goes, and then a state body exercises some control and realizes that no customs duty has been paid, no sales tax has been paid, regulations relating to the marking of goods, declarations, advertising regulations, a light of the rules have been broken, but it is a tajac. Why is he a father-in-law? Because this is a coalition government that has problems with its capacity, full democratic capacity and you see that crime depends on capacity. The more crime there is, the more compact the mass, the more compression is not 100%, but a hundred percent. It is so intertwined, unbreakable, that it cannot be destroyed and if it should be in that composition by 2017, because the greatest sign of expertise, the greatest sign of the preservation of the interest of this people is 126 hands in the air and since it is the principle of functioning, we are exposed to a kind of harassment with such unvulnerable proposals of the law. Of course, we just included a small part of the provision to try to rework through the amendment, so it doesn't – you're just suggesting that it be deleted. Now we wanted to show you that the texts need to be fixed, but your logic hasn't changed. And the text of the amendment is "expunged", says the government in one sentence – no amendment is accepted. Or, if an amendment is submitted and there are two, three typed sides, the government responds again – no amendment is accepted. So, they can't accept an amendment that would compromise the scenario of an interested group, properly deployed, I have to tell you; evidence of proper deployment is cohabitation, it's known: Democrats are holding banks, G17 is here, they're out there, these sausages are attacking, they're joking, they're joking, they're joking, they're joking, etc. The more the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to be distracted and think that in these free zones, which are all of our institutions: The Ministry of Finance is the free zone of Mladjan Dinkic, we have the Serbian presidency building, it is the free zone of Boris Tadic where he welcomes Michel Platini as the best goalie in the world. Then we have a free zone of MIP, where Danica Draskovic's husband, he falsely pretends to be foreign minister. I wanted to ask the president of the National Assembly, after I was bitten by that Draskovic with one statement, whether to sue him or not to sue him. But it depends on whether he has immunity or not. If he had immunity, I wouldn't sue him. If someone told me he didn't have immunity, they'd sue him right away. But I'm not defined either. Then, this close associate, Natasha Kandic, this member of the skinheads, Stankovic, wherever he did the pathological report, we lost it in The Hague. You saw it yourself. Not five, not six, he shows up, he cries, he complains, etc. Why complain when he suggested himself to be a world expert in pathology. Of course, such are supported by Natasa Kandic, and you can imagine an insult to this people when the Humanitarian Law Fund sends out ads via Radio Belgrade, the First Program, and calls for refugees from Kosovo and Metohija to bring in documentation and reports of the disappearances and victims of their loved ones in Kosovo and Metohija, and they have set a date, from 1988 to 2000 and some years. Natasa Kandic to defend Serbian victims, the one who said in Sarajevo a few months ago that they were very mild to the Republic of Serbia and had to be much stronger and more eager to represent their lawsuit against Serbia-Montenegro at the International Court of Justice. See what transformations can happen with us. Why? To deceive voters, to be in power in Serbia those who support the international measures, anti-Serbian measures, which will be able to meet any requirement by Olli Rehn, Oli Solana, Oli Carla, who you will. That's the policy, that's what Serbian citizens recognize. I know that you're a little bit watched by this transmission, the second transmission is much more interesting at this point, someone has made it much more interesting, inform your neighbours, friends of what kind of policy the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have, and especially explain the fact that they can't last two hours at work in the National Assembly. They're making things up. This guy now invented to make Irish sets of money, so he's got to go to Ireland. It's the kind of disaster we have. Believe me, it's a disgrace now and asking this government to resign, and that's why we're not asking you to resign, do as you imagine, just do, when elections are made, that the citizens of Serbia evaluate, evaluate and evaluate each and every one of them. Someone's gonna get an unaccompanied grade, and think about what that means.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28916	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. National MP Rajko Baralic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28917	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, just for a moment, there will be no abuse, only half a minute. The so-called The Nekerman affair, and I pointed to such and similar affairs in the adoption of two budgets, therefore, is catalogic sales, of various other types of illegal business that deny the state of Serbia 150m euros annually. I want to say, since Mr Krasic also mentioned the mail which is a public enterprise, two things we need to distinguish here. The post office, based on the Law on Postal Traffic, has a commercial interest in transporting and delivering as many postal shipments as possible and therefore packages. The second question is whether someone broke one of the laws this way, I don't think so. Unfortunately, postal services were used as a means to "Nekerman" and other similar phantom companies, and phantom services because they registered entirely contrary to the provisions of the law, gained enormous profits and the state was cut off. I was obliged to say this because the public company PTT traffic Serbia did not contribute to illegal activities happening in this area. On the contrary, it has helped others to become illegally rich by doing their basic work. It's important to say because of the people in the post office who in any case do not share responsibility for what is the subject of the Nekerman affair. As for this affair, I call on all those in charge not only of Nekerman, but also of many other security forces to collect the revenues that belong to it, rather than on the basis of inspection records, court disputes or some other incasation of funds that would otherwise be normal for them to enter the Republic of Serbia's budget without these proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28918	National MP Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28919	It remained unclear after what Mr. Baralic said, I didn't talk about post office employees, I didn't talk about mail as a public enterprise, I was saying that this system around Nekerman couldn't have worked out if members of the organized crime family hadn't properly deployed. I spent two hours yesterday, you probably weren't there, you weren't listening, explaining who the members of that joint criminal enterprise were. To repeat, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic is headed; because of this fight over the split point Labus left G17 plus, not because of Ratko Mladic or other things. Furthermore, government authorities have found illegality, in this they found that the failure was made at the foreign exchange inspectorate, so they gave chronology of all the failures of the Federal Customs Administration, beginning in January 2003 when it seemed to me that Aleksandar Krstic, later Karic's director of "Europe of Insurance", knows everything he had given a special dispersion, that the instructions for "Nekerman" Austria should their goods enter that value so much charge, etc. Then they called from the post office, and they said – please, there is no "Nekerman" Austria here, but "Nekerman" Varazdin, "Neckerman" Belgrade appears. You weren't, so you didn't hear what I explained, and I read the report, the government's report on irregularities in the Nekerman and Quelle case. Furthermore, part of this venture is the Tax Administration, and at the head of the tax administration, as a matter of fact, a friend of Mladjan Dinkic, and other authorities that have made a conscious failure, and the result of this conscious failure, is that no customs duties have been charged and no sales tax has been charged. In my speech yesterday, no mail was mentioned in a negative context at all, I even presented the data, in one period seven million and a few thousand euros, the post office charged its services, but at the head of the post office there are people who belong to the group. I just said the name Kovacevic, and I didn't say - all the employees in the post office. I didn't attack the mailmen, I didn't mention the mailmen, I didn't mention the mail as an institution, I mentioned individuals who were members of a criminal association. Who's been saying that? The inspection bodies, at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, were the most involved by the Ministry of Trade, which found that there was a failure in the rules on standardisation, advertising, quality control and so on. It was my discussion, and I'll always answer when someone can't interpret what I said, and then he's surprised when he sees the great accuracy of all my statements in the stenogram. That's why I called, I know it wasn't your intention to do something wrong, but one inaccuracy came out. You cannot identify all mailmen with the director of the post office, the chairman of the board of directors and their political belongings, even I didn't do it, I didn't even mention the parties, but I mentioned some torn-off forces that may even abuse parties, and there is this Dejan Simic, who is known for another affair. He's the founder of Nekerman, he's registered. I know, Mr. President, that you don't mind, since you share my opinion, and that's what you did in your shop and proved when you left G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28920	But together, we share a view of the clock. Thank you. Here you are, according to Business, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28921	Of course, I respond to an insult to the congregation’s dignity for bringing false truths. The party G17 plus is mentioned, Professor Labus and Mr Mladjan Dinkic were mentioned. I really don't think the subject of this amendment is either the party G17 plus, or those two gentlemen, and especially the way it's said. So the qualification that it's about some kind of division of prey absolutely can't be applied when it comes to party G17 plus. I know very well what you said and I'm only talking about what I've responded to. Therefore, this cannot apply to G17 plus, and if there is such practice in some other parties, G17 plus is certainly not engaged in this. I want to say very clearly, since Professor Labus's name was already mentioned, that he didn't come out of G17 plus, and especially that he didn't come out because of any division of prey. Mr. Labus is currently absent from politics for the reasons of the very well-known public, which is the fact that he failed to finish one of the jobs he started, which has been assessed as a high moral act and to me it is quite clear that it is quite incomprehensible for many. We expect Serbia to meet its obligations, continue through European integration and that all those who wish to participate in the process can join the G17 Plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28922	Thank you, Mrs. Plassic. Since this was according to the Rules of Procedure, just a moment, you will allow me to ask what Mr. Baralic's request is. Your request is for the Rules of Procedure, we go in turn, therefore, MP Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28923	Mr. President, he can't be a fine director of a bus company for buying a ticket. I speak for the postman of Serbia. So, please, because of the honor of this profession and because of the importance of this institution and this company, everyone who in any way has anything to do with the abovementioned affair should respond, but cannot be responsible for the mail, however, please, because in one prescribed way obtains profit and it is the task of this company. Please, there's no need to compromise, there's no failure based on the law that she's done to the post, and it's damaged the state. On the contrary, in this scenic work that others have devised and organized, only the mail has earned it legally. I'm not happy about it, but it's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28924	Here's a replica for Mr. Krasic, but please bring this discussion to an end. It's hard for me to manage, because I haven't attended the previous part of the debate, so I can't tell what's going on here to help. Here you are, Mr Krasic, a replica of Mrs Stojanović-Plasic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28925	There's a prank at work here. I didn't mention at all the postmen, not the ones who hold, not the ones who carry the packages, but I was talking about the director of the mail and the fact that people from DS and G17 plus are involved in this job, so I even said I didn't believe it came from parties and that these people had anything to do with it, but what it's worth. People want to hear what they think is good, so Mr. Rajko Baralic says he does not allow anyone to attack the mailmen. I never used one word to attack mailmen. I'm talking about frogs, and you're talking about grandmothers and we're making everybody laugh. Did you want any points, like, you're fighting for mailmen? I agree, you're fighting for the mailmen, but don't give me anything I didn't say. As for this lady, who kind of likes to create an incident situation for every word, in a coalition with journalists, ma'am, you just come on the side, you weren't here, you came in, and you immediately found it appropriate to join the line and comment on something. I was just yesterday explaining to the G17 Plus people that I was reading the report of the Government of Serbia and everyone had the opportunity to see the report, and Goran Paunovic, or Goran Jaksic was there and many other MPs, saw and no one found it fitting to replicate it, but you have the need to go out and defend someone from me. Don't defend me from me; you defend them from the government, and you support this government, and they come out of that government. Who's gonna figure it out more, please? A reasonable man cannot understand your behavior. You defend Labus from the government, and you're the ones who support the government. You've got personality splits. There is no Professor Vidinovic, he usually comments on it with one smile. Don't go out on the line and make some skirmish situations, because you're unnecessarily creating these situations. I said very precisely who founded it, how did it work, that the post office passed on to Nekerman's residence account through Raiffeisen Bank, transformed funds carried abroad, the state found that no taxes were paid, that no customs duties were paid, and then you went out and defended those, and who are you defending? Those who couldn't agree on the prey, to whom as much as it belonged, which part of that great prey. The papers write, the inspection bodies write, and you come out like you haven't read any newspapers or inspection reports, like you're not communicating with each other. Go to the Department of Commerce, ask them for official documentation, read that file, and you'll understand. This way, you support the government, and from this pay phone, you challenge the pathologically anything that comes from the SRS, you support those that the government attacks. It's just amazing behavior. What a reson, that's amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28926	Allow me, for the sake of correctness and for the protection of all the participants in the debate, as yesterday, the fact was debated, not in the papers, but in the case of a report that was read and asked a parliamentary question, which I allowed. Today, Mr Krasic, on the basis of the minutes, this parliamentary question has been sent, and it is not correct to talk about information until we get information in response to the parliamentary question, which is exactly what is in that report, what is done, what is not; it is referred to the two ministries otherwise. It is also incorrect, and if you allow, when someone enters the sitting room, it is not correct to manipulate data that citizens cannot verify, and I, among other things, have opened the work of two committees of the Assembly and, among other things, Mrs Stojanović-Plasic worked on it with the other MPs, and it concerns refugee issues; it is not correct that someone enters and exits, but is involved according to his post as MPs. It's the deputy president of the parliamentary group and, of course, he's responding, but it's good to clarify what happened to each other, and I'm asking you to bring the discussion to an end, to go back to the amendments, because we're going to check this out in the next few days when the answers from the ministry arrive, if that's okay with you. Can I influence you? (Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, from the place: Always. ) Thank you very much; always positive, I hope. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Momir Markovic, who, thanks to his last name, will certainly not cause controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28927	Of course, I don't think anyone's going out later. Here's another member of at least ten members of this law by which Mr. Minister is trying to put everything under his control. Come on, he put state money under his control of four and a half billion dollars from Cyprus, to remind citizens of Serbia, when Batic left, and found four and a half billion dollars of Serbian money in Cyprus, the money remained in Cyprus. He left Vela Ilic, found four and a half billion dollars, the money remained in Cyprus. Dinkic left, found four and a half billion dollars, no more money left in Cyprus. They went to exotic islands. It is this inflow of foreign capital that buys this little poverty in Serbia, there are indications that it is out of four and a half billion dollars. At least in nine members so far, Mladjan Dinkic is trying to force citizens to sell their foreign currency exclusively to a bank where foreign currency was held until then. There's no reason that there's an incredible, incomprehensible reason, unless it's the reason that I suspect. If I have a company abroad, an example works, and I keep it in one of the banks, usually, if it's working on the Russian market, then it's directed from here to keep the money at the Euroaxis Bank, because the biggest shareholders in that bank are Hamovic, Lazarevic... And to inform the citizens of Serbia, Hamovic and Lazarevic not only rob Serbia, but also start robbing the Republika Srpska. I just received data from one of our members today from how many in Republika Srpska were robbed, along with Dodik. He's their star now. There Dodik, this is Dinkic, Hamovic, Lazarevic between you, and God bless you. The fact that the people from both this and the other side of Drina, the Serbian people, are going to be hungry, are not going to be interested. After all, Maria Antoinette said – if they do not have bread, let them eat cakes. It won't surprise us to hear Dinkic say that, too. Mladjan Dinkic, minister of finance here, demands this law, and if we do not adopt this amendment, those residents who hold money in one of the banks are obliged to sell it to each other, regardless of course. Of course, when it comes to Euroaxis Bank, in agreement with our Ministry of Finance, the bank will drop down to certain borders and thus rob residents. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Momcilo Duvnjak, on behalf of the SRS, has submitted an amendment that really needs to be adopted. Finally, not only this amendment, but several other amendments concerning this particular matter need to be adopted and at least made to make this law look like something. This way, when the first salt falls, when this government falls, the biggest job will just be loaded with a Serbian radical party, because we will have to put all these laws out of force and pass laws that are in the interests of both Serbian and Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28928	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a look at these criminal provisions concerning Article 32, it seems to me, the law, has been showing consistency since October 5th. You were in that DOS at the time; I guess because you wanted to show something and prove it, from that famous Dinkic incursion into the National Bank, until today there is a certain continuity in the financial market, when it comes to banks, etc. He's breaking into a bank, declaring himself a self-proclaimed governor, and later on, it's confirmed by some decision of the Assembly, and it's moving towards the realisation of the plan. A year is like some grace period, as you like to say in banking, nothing important is happening, the moment of replacement of Western European currencies in the euro is coming and Mladjan Dinkic is moving to close domestic banks. What it looks like and what's going on with that business space, we know. It's a wake-up call, even some winding-up and bank bankruptcy agency is set up, and there's a rumor that these banks had to be shut down. It's about reforms, the state will be in a blockade, there won't be payment traffic with abroad, there won't be a way to import electricity that we didn't have at the time, etc. As soon as we close these banks, the state doesn't owe anyone anything anymore, etc. Here, a year and a half ago, we had a law, so all of the debts that these banks had now are debts from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What now? What's changed now? Now you're gonna pay for those pens since you closed the banks, but it doesn't matter. Maybe they'll forgive you for giving them exclusive space and free market, a monopoly on the market. Is it someone pretending that no one sees it, etc., now it's some other story and some other problem of yours. And anyone who understands that sees that it's all made up. How do you go on in your business? You're transferring payment traffic to business banks. You say it's like that everywhere in the world. Maybe it is, I don't want to get into it, but why don't you just say that that payment traffic was far more expensive than the last one. What you're not saying is that with 0.1 - 0.2% he jumped to close to one; who has cash payments and more than one. When it's done with this, now you've introduced this plastic, 3% are banking costs. Why don't you say so? Who does that most? Those banks you put on the market, they didn't buy the banks you were closing. Why didn't you sell those banks? Significant property was there, an exclusive space in city centres where square meters ranged from 1,000 to 10,000 euros in larger cities. You shut down, you set up bankruptcy managers. It's a piece-by-piece sale for small money, so that these bankruptcy managers and those workers who settled there with their salaries, that the judges would receive compensation, that the costs of the court would be settled, and that was why the property was going away. These same banks, the new banks that came in here and that have only rented space, didn't bring in their capital money. They came to capital by changing the Western European currency into the euro. Even then you were wrong and you said there were 4-5 billion marks, no more, and there were eight or nine. Even the banks boast that they have increased their capital by 20 per cent since they were present on the Republic of Serbia's market. It seems that the bankers are getting a little bit, as are the taxpayers, so they decided how to get more out of the exchange and to earn more euros. So what was in the straws was already over. Something that arrives here and there in the country or that is preserved, you will do so through investment funds and the law on the takeover of stock companies to get out of citizens. What's left? That little healthy exporting business. How do foreign banks get to these foreign exchanges? That's what you solved with this foreign exchange law. I've already explained in my previous presentation what it looks like technically. So, I don't mind a person being punished from 50 to 500,000 dinars if foreign trade exchanges don't keep an account in the bank, but I can't understand that you're suggesting that it be punished if it doesn't sell to that bank where it holds foreign exchanges, or exchange them for dinars or any other currency. Why do you insist on that? Especially since it is known that foreign banks have a certain monopoly when it comes to foreign trade business, because it is carried out via their banks abroad. So the domestic bank can't participate at all. The foreign bank, thanks to its monopoly position, will in one part of the job come up with all possible profits that can come from any business through banks. These are major problems that arise from the adoption and interpretation of laws, and it is certain that the only benefits of this law can be borne exclusively by banks and only by importers, because even when an exporter exports goods, it has to bring the foreign currency back to the country to, say, import goods. His procedure for importing goods is much more complicated and complicated than the procedure of a clean importer who shows up and brings an account to the bank, or a contract, and he says – I want to pay for this to import. These are the problems with laws like this. The technical law, which is extremely bad, is an extremely expensive implementation of this law by those who participate in the financial market, so in any case, don't brag that something is new, revolutionary. This is lagging behind, overcome, and the only benefits of this are speculators.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28930	The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28931	I'd like to try, although it's not my matter, to explain to what extent the misunderstanding of the motionary of this amendment is going on. Why does it insist that foreign exchanges must be sold to the same bank? As is known, companies must keep their foreign exchanges operating in a bank account. These foreign exchanges, when sold, are sold from the bank's account and only in the bank where these foreign exchanges are held, of course, then converted into that bank, bought for dinars and sold. This is a logical and normal solution, and there is nothing strange about it, and the fact that the banking system in Serbia has improved enormously since 2000, it is quite normal. In your day, foreign exchanges were sold on the street, we listened on every corner of those who sell foreign exchanges as they shout – visas, visas, visas. The course didn't know, it depended on the corner to the corner. Now we see that you don't understand why payment cards are being introduced, that plastic as you say. I don't know what you'd do, pebbles, so whoever's got a bigger rock has more, or maybe a slave exchange, to get back to some original community. I don't know what would suit you better, but it's obvious that this doesn't suit you, and it should be clear to the citizens of Serbia. Also, when you're talking about money in Cyprus, you're talking about who saw that there was, this video, that video, but obviously you're not talking about who took it. He took whoever was in power before 2000, and your president was in power and many of you were ministers before 2000. Whoever took the money to Cyprus, it's a question, not who found it, brought it or didn't bring it. Don't talk about it forever. That's the real question. You might want to ask yourself who stole the money, not who found it. Ask yourself, what was Serbia's foreign reserve when you were wondering if there were any, what are they today, and wonder if we've accumulated interest from the IMF and the others in your time, and what we're doing now, we're bringing them back. Ask yourselves, in fact, you have nothing to ask yourself, but let the citizens of Serbia ask themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28932	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28933	You put bread on him, he stoned you, but good. When a man comes out for this pay phone, what's indefensible can't defend himself. First of all, it's not the goal of making something to exist; I guess the goal is to make something perfect and make it as cheap as possible. That's what I mean when this law is written and these amendments are required. There's nothing else to look for. Whoever took the money to Cyprus, you talked about it, you haven't arrested anyone yet, you haven't locked up, you haven't heard, you haven't prosecuted. Furthermore, whoever took the money from Cyprus seems to be Mladjan Dinkic, says Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Velja Ilic and discuss it with him, not with us. That's what Batic said. Then you were some old DOS, then you were in the coalition, June or July 2003, until Dinkic was replaced by the governor of the National Bank. I've been on this phone a number of times, while the finance minister was sitting there, asking where the money was from Cyprus, so Al-Qaeda bothered him, and he was in the way of international terrorism, so he couldn't find the papers, so he finally found about 300 million, but he can't tell us who the money was from. When I called him why he didn't say, he says - I can't tell you because the money isn't from this space. Are they from our man? He can't say that either. That's what Mladjan Dinkic said from this pay phone. You were supposed to be in the O.R. then, sir. What's 300 million marks? A little something for Junior. Explain that. Now you're in power, there's no excuse for anything you don't do. Here, it's the third year since this government, or the sixth year since you came to power, you still haven't proven that anyone has brought that money or that money exists. Why? Well, you picked him up from Cyprus. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28934	First, Mr. Momir Markovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28935	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, whenever I say that money is stolen by the government, at least three of them from the G17 are in a hurry. It's not about the name, it's about the government institution. Second, Mr. Humane, because if I tell the government, he'll say again... If it hadn't been for Cyprus, there wouldn't have been any drugs in Serbia, there wouldn't have been oil in Serbia, because your friends who brought you to the bulldozer just closed the ring on all sides of Serbia. In Banja Luka, babies died because your friends banned you from sending oxygen to Banja Luka. So much for the humanity of your friends. It's not a problem that the money was in Cyprus, but it's a problem that they're not in Cyprus now and they're nowhere, since your vice president, what's the matter with you, whether it's the Deputy Prime Minister, if you've changed Labus, I don't know, since he went to Cyprus, I've been thinking about Mladjan Dinkic, the current finance minister, the governor, when he was walking in with his sock into the National Bank, and people are wondering if he's better or not, but it doesn't matter. Money was in Cyprus. Velja Ilic, who also attended the government session, broadcast television, said that four and a half billion dollars were in Cyprus. Vladan Batic, minister, went four and a half billion dollars in Cyprus. Mladjan Dinkic has gone – they are no longer in Cyprus, but are on exotic islands. Maybe they're here in Ireland, too, so he went to check that they didn't accidentally change his P.I.B. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the biggest robberies that has hit the country of Serbia. Four and a half billion dollars have gone missing from Cyprus. That's what our police should start with, and then Interpol, Europol, determine where they are, and then we know where the thieves belong. I just hope he doesn't sew his mouth up afterwards so he doesn't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28936	Don't believe the TV. National MP Hranislav Peric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28937	Mr. President, there's a broken Rules of Procedure here, because the previous speaker didn't speak about a subject that's on the agenda in the Assembly, the one from G17, Mr. Homan. The story of the Cypriot money has been a raving of the people for six years. It's skillfully done, that the people are dazzled and looking at Cyprus, and you're on a domestic stage to pick up what's in the country. This is best explained in a TV show by Borka Vukic, and she offered a duel with Dinkic, to show him a little about the finances, what about the money, how the state operates, that it is normal for us to have money in other countries, to trade with all countries, etc. You've been rolling that story for six years, and so far nothing's been proven. Therefore, pay attention. I think it's a good time to use it to talk about Cypriot money. After Minister Dinkic here says it is difficult to find. You used that time well to sell out banks, sell out companies of two or three euros, sell-offs, etc. You guys did a good job here. At the end of your term, you will again conclude, and perhaps sometimes your minister will say – there was a joke, there was no Cypriot money anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28938	According to the Rules of Procedure, for the presentation of the same speaker, as incorrectly interpreted, this time Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28939	Mr. Markovic, you know the government can't have a nickname. The government of the Republic of Serbia is a name for a state body. It is very dangerous to mistake the name of a state organ and the name of an individual. Then in the outflows of nothing-provoked intelligence, we come to a situation that even interferes with interstate relations. Now let me explain it to you. I'm surprised you didn't react because you're in charge of international relations, international co-operation. You're just enjoying it. (President: Excuse me, speak to me as Markovic, or to Mr Markovic, who quoted the nickname? ) Mr. Markovic, and last time I recommended to you, given that I was informed through the newspapers, that the Serbian Parliament was moving to that building there. There's plenty of room for video-bim, but there's a big space for what's called an idiot in the TV jargon. That's what stands next to the camera, so it serves someone to read, and it can also serve someone to tell, in writing, what the speaker said. It must be installed in a new building, in a new location, so that we don't pull Vujaklia and pull some new stenograms. I'm very specific about what this is about. You watch out for the interstate co-operation of the Republic of Serbia, you watch over these things. In a speech by one of the MPs, we were offended by the dear and friendly Republic of Cyprus, so there were many incorrect data, wrong facts at the expense of the president of the Republic of Cyprus, who, in one period, owned the law firm that was involved, through the second largest bank in England, as the founder of one bank in Cyprus. Now I draw your attention to you, Mr. Markovic, and Mr. Batic, Mr. Velija Ilic, Mr. Bogovac, the very gentlemen, and even the Lalic, who ran the "Operation Cyprus" -- now you see him, now you don't see him, were careful in their statements, even when they passed on those boxes with a warrant of 1054. I just want to remind you that a huge book was published with the original documentation of what was done, how it was done. I'm just warning you that one president is not carrying, I'm just warning you that the money was gone and that it was gone, I'm just warning you that Operation Cyprus is a masterpiece of DOS. I don't know why someone recognizes it as a DOS ingredient, of 0.0 something. It is not our goal to potentiate 0.0 something but those garaganes, the ones from the free zone of Boris Tadic. We cannot let Boris Tadic plant something that is 0.01% within DOS, that we break our teeth on something small. No, we ignore it simply because the facts are on our side, but there is an insult here to our friendly states and to the glorification of the achievements of those who bombed this country. This is what every reasonable man who lives in Serbia recognises, knows, we have at work a power that should amnesty all those who have destroyed the former SFRY, bombed Serbia and committed serious crimes against the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, we discuss and talk and call for a question of Cyprus for some time. Just for your knowledge, all those who were the most critical of the previous government, so let it be 60 years, were celebrating Mrs. Borka Vukic. So if they did it, don't you who are on the much lower scales in those political parties to deny the leaders of your parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28940	Thank you, Mr. Krasic. Once again, I apologize, I had to intervene because I didn't know if there was anything that was said by the MP with that last name or if you're talking to me to take care of what the MPs say. Of course, now it's perfectly clear, and you won't be angry until that instrument arrives, I'll take your word for it. Replica, MP Vladimir Homan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28941	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't have a replica of Mr. Krasic's exposure, because I don't know who he was referring to, it's not safe for me, I didn't mention any of it. But that's why I was extremely saddened to mention the tragedy of babies in Banja Luka for this assembly speaker and thus trying to score some political points. On the other hand, this morning, as the President of the Assembly mentioned earlier, there was a conference dedicated to refugees and all those people who were killed at a time when you were wondering about something in this country. You were not there, no Serbian Radical Party MP was in that hall to hear the voice of these people, to hear what was happening to them and to see how they could be helped and to solve their problems. That's why you know from this pay phone you're talking about and you're moaning over their fate. But well, that's your policy. As far as these robberies are concerned, isn't it hypocritical that the SRS is talking about robbing the people, and the first ones were in the ranks of the Uzda and Dafina to raise the money they took, which they invested there, were the first to raise those interest while you stayed in line and didn't raise that money, so today, thanks to Minister Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, too? Isn't it hypocritical to talk about who saw the money, who didn't see the money, and they made the money? When Governor Dinkic, at the time, came to be governor of the NBS foreign exchange reserve was $400m, and at the same time in Cyprus, as you say, it was $4.5 billion. At the same time, only 400 million were in the vault of the Serbian state. And who should be ashamed of that now? As for sanctions and the fact that they had to go there, and now somehow to compensate, to buy medicines for those children already mentioned, is it Dinkic's fault, is it the government of Serbia, DOS or anyone else? Who's to blame for the sanctions, who's to blame for the bombing, who's to blame for the Serbian people suffering? None of this has been safe since 2000, and if you can say so, it's an honor. But Serbian citizens know how they lived and who was responsible for paying them one mark and having to run into the street to change it as soon as possible and to buy a bag of candy to the kids, otherwise they'll lose it too. Don't throw it away, I just told you what you can do. Citizens today rightly say they're having a hard time living, but in this difficult life, they're also counting on their salaries to pay off their loans, and they've raised their loans to buy apartments, cars, televisions, all they could dream of until a few years ago, but you say it was better then. Serbian citizens know when it was better, and when it was worse and sure they wouldn't want to go back to, I just said, some trade and cornering in the sale of foreign exchanges and pyramid banks, and again Cyprus and wars. They're not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28942	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, because you're misread, in terms of replicas referred to you, and you're looking at the Rules of Procedure as wrongly interpreted. Do I keep the public up to date? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28943	That's right, Mr. President. Let's get some things straight first. When the Serbs outside Serbia were the most difficult you were there, there were Serbian radicals. When Serbs were expelled from your friends by the Serbs who managed to cross, which was not killed along the way, the Serbian Radical Party was found to them. They didn't come to other municipalities, the most refugees came to Zemun, they built houses in Zemun today, they came home and they lived. How they live -- they live far worse than they lived there because all their property was robbed there. And this Ali-baba across the street is going to make out with Mesic, the same Mesic who expelled over 220,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska alone. So I don't want to talk about it. The people know what Serbian radicals were doing while you went to Segedin for that course and received money in your suitcases, and today is your habit of suitcase. Besides, did your deputy governor get caught with a 100,000-euro suitcase or some kind of radical? As for these babies, your friends from Segedin, those teachers from Segedin, they imposed sanctions, and Serbia couldn't deliver oxygen to those babies. If you don't feel sorry for those babies, we do. We also regret those who were killed when your friends flew in a "merciful angel" above Serbia while you were walking around Serbia again, where "vaks" here and you, "avaks" via Hungary you in Hungary, "avaks" via Italy you in Italy, and those who have bled underpants defending this Serbian space, you have the least right to say anything to them, related to refugees and defense territories. We are going back to the four and a half billion dollars that Mladjan Dinkic stole from Cyprus. That's what we need to talk about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28944	Thank you. It's okay, I saw four hands. So, I totally understand the discussion that's going on and we're simply forgetting, about this law, and the story of money and transfers and a little bit of forgetting whether it's a stamp, whether it's a dollar, whether it's the euro, as if it's all the same. Because of the dignity of the National Assembly, I will in no way allow individual people from the party to be called for who cared more about his country yesterday, today or tomorrow, it cannot. These are the representatives of the people, the MPs are sitting here, and whatever political person thinks is not possible to accuse someone that he is not a patriot and that he is not a citizen or that someone has any assumptions that he did not do yesterday. It's about everything. In particular, we all know what the previous decade looked like, we all know that there were sanctions against our country and we also know that sanctions have been imposed from our country and there is no reason to discuss it now. We're responsible here, I hope things like this don't happen, so please make sure by the stenogram that there's a reason for this discussion to continue. I'll give a five-minute break, check it out, and I urge not to call for patriotism the MPs and members of the parties in Serbia, because it is offensive, and it is particularly offensive if we manipulate the data on the victims. The victim was on different sides, and it's not up to us to determine guilt. There are political campaigns, this is the National Assembly. Thank you. Break till 5:15. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you all for your willingness to do our job responsibly. We'll continue our work after the break. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28946	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really do feel the sincerest regret for some colleagues who very often show a lower-value complex here compared to the education and the natural intelligence of officials and members of the SRS, but I really can't help them, that's another profession, I'm a graduate lawyer. As for that story that preceded the break and some money that disappeared from Cyprus, I have only one sentence, for the sake of the public in particular, to say that there is one book, it is called "Democratic Robbery of Serbia", that this book was written by Dragan Vlahovic, otherwise a five-octobaric friend of those in power from October 5th to today, and he explained nicely what was going on with the four-and-a-half billion dollars. Here, SRS lawmakers claimed that Mladjan Dinkic magically removed $4.5 billion. I wouldn't exactly swear that 4.5 billion were put away by Mladjan Dinkic, given that before him the money was discovered by Batic, then Velja Ilic, it is possible that they took a smaller part of it, so that he didn't exactly remove all 4.5 billion. Also, for the sake of the public, I have to say, I said it in the morning, now I repeat, that today we have been doing the opposite of Article 87 all day long. Rules of Procedure, because we don't have a government representative here who was supposed to be here with us to discuss the draft of this law that's on the agenda. We do not know where Mladjan Dinkic, who is otherwise an authorised representative of the government, given that he is abroad, is all afraid that he did not go to lobby to provide some kind of support in the white world for his idea he presented the other day, which refers to Kosovo and Metohija, when he said that no one in Serbia should have any more illusions that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and that we must make peace with it. If this job, Mladjan Dinkic, went abroad, he better not go back to Serbia. As for the inconclusiveness of the government of Kostunica - Dulic, when it comes to the draft laws discussed by the National Assembly, it seems to me that this proposal of the foreign exchange law is a typical example of the government's unserious and irresponsible work on these matters. This also applies to these three ladies who were sent here by Mladjan Dinkic to sit and dawdle because they cannot participate in parliament's work. They could have taken a stenographic note and seen what the MPs were saying, read it and passed it on to their boss, but after they chose to sit here, I will look very briefly at this legal-technical editorial of the text of the bill given by the Legislative Committee, only to draw the attention of the public of Serbia as far as the government is doing in the absence of complete attention, it is probably again bad translators. You see, in Article 2, let's say, there are some formal mistakes that the Legislative Committee has corrected, which have passed all the government controls, from those who translated this text to the Legislative Committee, of course, you from the Ministry, the Minister, so to God and the Prime Minister, because this must have gone through the government, so it corrects "with a deadline of maturity", the Legislative Committee tells you that this is "with a deadline of maturity". So in article 2, you left the parentheses behind some numbers; so in article 12, you said, "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes deadlines and ways of reporting by business... "and the Legislative Committee tells you that it is "about jobs"; then in Article 13 - "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes deadlines and ways", you left out to say "conditions, deadlines and ways"; for example, in Article 26, you say "the Bank can approve", the Legislative Committee corrected it for you and told you "to approve". There are a dozen more of these mistakes, and I have read it completely on purpose and consciously to draw attention to the public of Serbia, I repeat, how insecure is the government of Kostunica - Dulic. As regards the amendments that I have submitted to Article 68(1) on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the government has provided that the rules for the enforcement of this law will be adopted no later than six months from the date of entry into force of this law. My proposal is to replace these six months with three months, and the government's argument is that the amendment is not accepted because it is a large number of complex sublegal acts to be passed by the government and the National Bank of Serbia. This argument is absolutely unacceptable, given the fact that we are discussing this draft law on a proposal from the Government in an emergency session; if we can urgently and urgently discuss this proposal of the Government, then indeed the Government can adopt all necessary sub-legal acts within three months. It would even make sense to me that everything is already being prepared in the government and that it is only waiting for the law to come into force so that these acts can be applied, because I mean that the government has provided the congregation majority for the adoption of this law, as well as for all the laws found on the agenda of this assembly. This morning, when I was talking about my amendment, I mentioned this case that is trying to hide from the public, which refers to Zoran Trifunovica Trizona, and now I repeat it for the reason I made one mistake this morning. It is, in effect, a man who owns the oil and import company, which damaged NIS for 27m euros, which is the chief financier Boris Tadic and who fled the trial. This morning, I said it happened at the Belgrade District Court, but it didn't, it happened at the District Court in Novi Sad. That's why I'm repeating it now so it won't happen if someone from the SRS is cheating on the public, because we absolutely never do. This Zoran Trifunovic, who stole 27m euros from the Serbian people, which is financed by Boris Tadic, escaped from the District Court in Novi Sad by leaving the courtroom and saying that something was wrong, that he should go to the bathroom and then a nice man walked. They probably waited for him outside and Shuki Plasm, perhaps Dragan Gilas, someone who cares very much about that man getting out of Serbia, and maybe Boris a thief, because they also care about that man getting out of Serbia, especially to get away with so much money, because God damn it, they're gonna need that money to split. As far as this law is concerned, since this is the last amendment to the SRS, I call once again on all MPs to vote for our amendments, because the amendments are legally founded, logical and meaningful and absolutely correct the text of the law, the law makes it applicable and tailored to the needs of Serbian citizens, and it should be the intention of the government and the parliamentary majority to adopt laws that benefit Serbian citizens. Of course, we have not had such a law so far; it begins since 2001, since the laws have been passed under so-called democratic authority and democratic majority, you have not passed any laws in the interests of citizens, either. This foreign exchange law is another of the private laws of Mladjan Dinkic and the government of Kostunica - Labus, pardon, not Labus, but Kostunica - Dulic, I am not used to this significant change yet. The law is passed and is intended exclusively for foreign banks, for an import lobby, for a thieving bloc that otherwise calls itself a democratic bloc, led by Serbia's first thief Boris Tadic. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party and our MP groups, I promise all those thieves who have been in power since 2000 or are now in power that the SRS will create much better conditions in prisons after the next elections and that it will certainly not have to sew their mouths because of the poor conditions in prisons, where certainly all thieves will be housed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28947	Do any other MPs want a word? What? I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. I'm sorry, you've got three minutes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28948	I'm surprised that you as an ex-member of the G17 plus still have those manners of the G17 plus towards the MPs of the SRS, but well, it's not that important. It is important that the government of Vojislav Kostunica thinks it takes six months to pass sublegal acts in terms of foreign exchange law, and the SRS, since it believes that it should go to Europe as soon as possible, proposes that the deadline be three months, since we know that there are extremely interesting figures in the finance ministry who are able to arrange everything with some turbo speed. Just to remind you that there are some individuals who, regardless of the time limit, were only able to break into the National Bank of Yugoslavia with their socks on their heads, that they allegedly ran the National Bank for a month, and that they were represented as governor, vice governor, etc. That efficiency and that speed can also be demonstrated when it comes to the adoption of sublegal acts within the meaning of this law. Of course, these people have shown exceptional activity and efficiency when it comes to shutting down domestic banks, these people have shown exceptional activity when it comes to breaking up the state community. They didn't need a deadline, it took a minute, you walk in, you come out, and almost, as their picturesque commercial said. These people have also shown great, as I say, caution and visibility now, because for years, although in one government that advocates, even formally-legally, that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, they as a component of the government that has that stance represent the view that Kosovo and Metohija should be independent, they boast that they are talking to the refugees when they come to the Assembly, but never tell them to advocate Kosovo and Metohija's independence. So all of these are certain parallels to efficiency. This government of Vojislav Kostunica, with this representative of the government representing this law in Ireland, can do it effectively in 15 days, so that there is no need to invent something new; sublegal regulations that are in force under the existing foreign exchange law can only be adapted to certain provisions and can be applied, can be the basis. But I have to tell you, if this law goes into effect within eight days of the day of adoption, and within a relatively short period of time, no sublegal acts are passed, then the whole process of passing this law has been unthinked. Usually, these matching deadlines are consistent with the deadlines for this new law to come into force, so that individuals are not surprised by the thunder from the clear sky, and you know that the serpent is burned by, even the lizard is afraid. So, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when this majority quite clearly votes this bill, we will get another private law with exceptional coalition capacity and democratic orientation, that the individual be above all, independent of the fact that on the scale of the executive government he is neither the Prime Minister nor the Deputy Prime Minister, but one of the ministers behind whom are standing and who stands large interest groups from the financial area who have due attention and gratitude to him, because he has made them millionaires and billionaires, regardless of the time... (Miljub Albianic, from the scene: No matter the time, I am tired of hearing stories like that. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28949	Please, without throwing away, that's what the chairman is worried about. Here you go, Mr. Crassy, finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28950	Mr. Markovic, there's no need for you to worry, I went well, they could have driven me to the crematorium of those who earn, never mind. You don't want to create a crematorium, the Pancians don't like crematorium, but that should be known, so what is the democratic capacity and democratic potential of those who would be very happy to perform on the subject of democracy and money, and they can't go out on a regular TV duel.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28951	Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON PATITUAL TRANSPORT (specificities) I remind you that we said during the afternoon, we will only work until the end of this search in particular, because it is now on the agenda, and we will not be doing a search of the 13th point. At the same time, I give a warning to you, Mr Krasic, because of the dignity of the National Assembly, you know very well that the decisions of the National Assembly must be respected, all MPs voted and no one here in the National Assembly advocates independent Kosovo, and that does not apply to any of the MPs, right, please. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Zoran Krasic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Zoran Antic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: You asked who would follow the amendment, I raised my hand. And Mr. Antic is, so I'm asking which one of you is. You will, I'm sorry. There was an observation earlier that I wasn't noticing, and now I seem to notice more.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28952	Mr Markovic, I give you a warning to a serious reminder because you are having a bad time in running this session and that you too have to use that credential, because I did not mention any MPs that voted on an independent Kosovo, but I was talking about political parties that are in the government, and they are pushing for an independent Kosovo. Don't misread me and get into a society of socio-political workers, who in all ways want to twist the words I said. Don't interrupt me, I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28953	I'm interrupting you according to the Rules of Procedure, because only the president has the right to interrupt you. I wouldn't have reacted, of course, to check for a stenogram, if it hadn't been for a sentence that those who spoke about refugees today were MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28954	I'm not going into your artistic taste, but it doesn't stand anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that you should interpret and evaluate the artistic impression. Even Milka Babovic wouldn't allow herself as a speaker. On the agenda is the law on additions to the Law on Payments. Just to remind you that it was a spectacular law that was brought in during Djelic in 2002, praised by Mladjan Dinkic, as governor, because they were pals at the time, later they argued so much that they vowed not to come to each other's funeral. The law was amended in 2003, and when it passed to the level of the Republic one change was made in 2004. Now there is a need to amend one provision, or to supplement one member with a new position that should allow the organisation units of foreign legal entities, economic operators operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia here to participate in payment by allowing these organisational units to open an current account so that they can operate independently. We have not submitted an amendment to this article. We have submitted two amendments that we wanted to add essentially to the Law on Payments with two provisions concerning forced collection. This should have been the addition of Article 47 to Article 1 of the amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, and the amendment submitted by Mr Zoran Antic on behalf of the SRS refers to Article 7(2), where it defines what the bank of the debtors is doing when it receives a payment order. Instead of having the Government declare itself on these amendments in a way to engage in the material content of these texts and these solutions that we propose, the Government has begun to interpret the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and says there is no possibility that these two amendments are being considered because they are not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I believe that the government is not authorized to give the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but should be made known to the wholeness, justification and team so-called. material, essential aspects of the proposed amendments, and this formal party, the procedural party remains with the Legislative Committee, at the National Assembly, so why not tell the President of the National Assembly, who is in one part authorised to decide what fate these amendments are, whether they are entering the procedure, whether they are not entering, whether they are allowed or not. Because of the very fact that there is no warning, or if there is, I do not know, I have not seen in the materials I have received, I am under the impression that the Legislative Committee does not question this amendment. I don't know today if he was making any decisions about it, but I don't think the government had the grounds for having this opinion on these two amendments. I think the amendments are significant, but I'm deliberately not opening the subject of what we suggested. However, some order or priority is introduced in an emergency charge from companies' legal entities, where priority is given to the court over tax rulings. But, I know, it wouldn't fit whoever runs the finance ministry, because he runs human resources policy in courts, clears up bankruptcy, brings... Even as governor, it proved that he did not respect any court decision in the administrative dispute, so instead of respecting those decisions and acting on them, it happened in the end that judges had to end up in some places to preserve the character and the work of the man who let himself have some film that ranks those who are and that in history he was known as very good and quality finance ministers and people who breathed their souls into this people and the foundations of Serbian statehood. He's probably not even on that level to compare himself to them. We believe that amendments should be adopted. They represent, first of all, the expression of a normal flow of things in payment in that section regarding forced collection. We only asked the amendments to change the order, we didn't throw anything out, but to introduce some fair order of mandatory payment claims, because it's possible that the executive court decision stands, waits order, the tax administration comes up with an absolute priority. First, these charges, and the one who led the litigation and with great trouble came to a judicial verdict, and later to the executive title, at the final stage when he was to collect his claim remains played out, and perhaps even in one variant and sent to achieve his claim through bankruptcy. The IRS can't have that kind of priority as a state, not due to the principle of power-sharing. Any claims made by a judicial decision must have priority, in particular that the longstanding court dispute is behind them and any interest that has been verified in an appropriate court procedure, which the law recognises, and tax rulings may result in later administratively proving that the mandatory payment on the basis of a tax act which was subsequently annulled was essentially illegal. We know what the proclivities of those currently in Ireland are like. They simply make their own regulations appropriate to them to be recognized by these, above all, abuses. The largest abuses of official office in this country take place in the Ministry of Finance. Not with the employees, but mostly with the man who runs that ministry. The second largest abuse group is located at the National Bank of Serbia. The evidence is that occasionally the National Bank of Serbia warns and asks citizens to be careful in dealing with banks, those banks that started working here while Mladjan Dinkic was the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, so that the story is here. Of course, this story couldn't exist if it weren't for free zones across the street, the one that has a performance that some president of the Republic, who thinks he can do anything, that he can teach anyone, that he decides which parties can exist and that can't exist. His democratic capacity, as democratic persons, is inexhaustible, enjoys support from all sides, but there is only one problem, support cannot be provided to Serbian citizens. Because he fears checking his support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the whole of Serbia has lost its constitution, has run out of constitution because of the democratic party's scrupulous interests, which thinks it can still cheat on someone. Of course, the DS, if necessary, pulls out one of the parties it claims is in the democratic bloc, but they have reportedly some lack that makes them incapable of being a democratic, democratic party with a full name. Serbian citizens should know this, that there is a part of brainwashing, that there is a part of media manipulation in the system, and as much as possible to deceive citizens of the Republic of Serbia in order for some individuals to abuse power for personal gain, for personal positions, for the sake of having those who bombed the Republic of Serbia, who destroyed the former SFRY, are being amnestyed in Serbia through state authorities and policies conducted by those who bombed the Republic of Serbia. So don't be surprised when you hear the government repeating the SRS sentences 15 years ago. We criticized The Hague tribunal, you all praised it and said that there is evidence of innocence. When these anti-Serb verdicts started, you realized there was something wrong with The Hague. Just to remind you, a few dozen persons have been delivered, escorted as a duke there, as heroes, donated a car, with state honors you gave the executioner a piece of Serbian meat there, and you are angry that someone was a little convicted or released, and this country has done nothing to preserve, provide, process evidence and learn only the truth. You stop, you stop, you stop the truth about Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then you're surprised what's going on from abroad. Your partners from abroad don't appreciate you, and at every step of the way, they disrespect you. If you were a little appreciated, you'd never be asked to do this, which is unsustainable. I'll tell you more, we have tomorrow and these days, citizens of the Republic of Serbia follow the transmission, you'll hear the truth about what a Dosmanian government is and what demons are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28955	Mr Krasic, these two amendments, where the Legislative Committee actually gave the opinion that they should refuse, were the questions why did the president not react? No, I don't. ) In these two cases, I have repeatedly warned, when the Legislative Committee does not say one of the two options – either legally possible or rejected, in which case I will read a formulation such as now to be rejected, but will be discussed, and even now discussed. That's why I'm distracting. So no discussion was prevented, so there would be no misunderstanding. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28956	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, both of them and the other amendments, refer to the championship when it comes to the collection, and that's when it comes to forced payment. But what is interesting is the reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia to submit amendments, which at the very least offends the National Assembly and the MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, each MP has the right to submit an amendment to the law, to amend and supplement the law, and to amend and supplement the law on the agenda and to the basic law. To see how the government of Vojislav Kostunica fits, it is said: "The amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall submit the amendment as a proposal to amend and supplement the bill, i.e. to specific members in the draft law. In view of the fact that the proposed amendment does not apply to a member of the Bill's proposal, nor does it apply or is it related to the addition subject to the Bill's proposal, it is practically initiated to amend another member of the basic Law on Payments, the amendment is not accepted. "So the government in a certain way does not even want to give the right explanation why the amendment is not accepted, and thus avoids responding properly to the MP why his amendment has been rejected. The MP has the right to submit a bill, a proposal to amend and supplement the law. The government of the Republic of Serbia must declare all of this. He can't say he's not the government's proposing, so we suggest that the bill that the MP has passed is not accepted. So there is no real and logical explanation for not accepting these amendments submitted by Zoran Krasic and Zoran Antic. The explanation is completely identical. What are the amendments to the table? The issue is that the amendment submitted by Zoran Krasic determines when forced collection is carried out and in what order. According to this amendment, forced collection shall be carried out in the following manner and shall be carried out on the basis of: 1) executive court decisions and judgments according to the time of receipt; 2) executive tax, customs and other competent authorities – according to the time of reception; (3) other executive titles of legal authority – according to the time of reception, and (4) the order of the trustees on the basis of the agreed securities, securities or powers granted by the debtor to his bank and his trustee – according to the date of maturity and the time of receipt. Under current law, the championships have executive solutions to tax, customs and other competent authorities according to reception times, in relation to executive court decisions and judgments. We are now, in fact, making the Law on Payments, which this assembly has made, a precedent for tax or customs proceedings, which are administrative procedures and which are carried out by the executive body, whether it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether the body forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of some law, that their solutions are older and more important than the resolution and judgments issued by the judicial authority. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia gives itself the authority to control the judiciary itself. We even had in one law, I think it's the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, that the finance minister gives himself the right to even put individual provisions of the law out of force. The minister sets himself above the law, above the Assembly. Now, in the Law on Payments, we see that tax and customs authorities are above the judicial authorities. Not even we, as MPs, have the right to interfere in the work of the judicial authority. We can insist on being more efficient, running processes faster, etc., but we have no right to go to the quality of their judgments. There's a certain tax solution here that's older than a court solution. Is the goal, in fact, of filling the budget at any cost, no matter how much it costs to citizens who have no obligation to participate in this budget filling in the way it's prescribed here? As you say, if there's a judicial solution first, the police won't be able to accept the salaries, the army won't be able to, you won't be able to. Let's just say, if the tax settlement is older than any company, does that mean that we should forget about these people too? So they shouldn't take salaries either, and that company doesn't have to work, it's just important that the budget is charged at all costs. In general, when it comes to administrative acts, they cannot have a championship in relation to court rulings. Then what do we need the courts for? Furthermore, when laws are passed and citizens are already paying taxes, what do they expect when they pay taxes? They expect protection from the state. He pays taxes, he respects laws, so he's loyal to the state, and he expects the state to protect him. How the state protects him when they ignore the judiciary, only to settle it at all costs. So the citizen doesn't have the right to protect himself from the state. Read the Law of Payments, so you don't want to frown, get into the essence of it, and you'll see what I'm talking about. Take the Budgetary System Act, and you will see that in certain cases the minister has the right to suspend certain provisions of the law. Then why were we passing that law? Let's let the powers of the minister simply pass on to him all the powers and the National Assembly and the judicial authority, so let the man himself rule here. It would be best for him if we would have abolished the elections, if there were no constitution, only one law that puts Mladjan Dinkic in the monarch's rank, because only the monarch is above the law. This argument by the government is not based at all on the Rules of Procedure on Labour, humbles in a certain way the Serbian Parliament, humiliates the MPs, shows, in fact, that the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic treats the National Assembly. Those MPs who hold to themselves will vote in the day to vote so that these amendments will be accepted. The essence of the law does not change, your reforms will not be halted and slowed due to the adoption of such an amendment, but neither Mladjan Dinkic, nor the tax, nor the customs administration will do what they want in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-05-0.u28957	Of course, in a parliamentary monarchy, even monarchs are not above the law. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all those responsible for participating in today's search of the 11th and 12th points of the agenda. Tomorrow, from 10.00 hours, we will continue the search in detail of the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on transport in road transport.
