ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24573	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 103 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the Parliament of the People's Parliament of the Life-dark Dacin. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – The selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education For this part of the agenda, you received a report from the Committee on Education, with a list of candidates who were authorised by the proposings, and this is: 1. Conference of the University of Serbia (10 candidates), 2. Conference of the Director of Higher Schools of Serbia (two candidates), 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia (three candidates), with a change of the list, 4. An extremely large Autonomous Province of Vojvodina (one candidate), with a change of the list. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Is the reporter of the committee responsible reporting for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24574	The Honorable chairman of the Democratic Party of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, will only remind you of a few things when it comes to the election of the National Council for Higher Education, because most of the things you already know. Let me remind you that in early September we voted the Higher Education Act, which is a system-based reform law. This law provides for the establishment of a National High Education Council to ensure and improve the quality of higher education. As the chairman said, the lists of candidates have arrived from authorised proposings. Namely, the author of the Serbian University Conference delivered a valid ten-member list of candidates. The high school director's conference had an obligation to deliver a list of candidates with two members, which she did. The government of the Republic of Serbia was tasked with delivering a list of three members, making sure one of the candidates from the University of Pristina, which was done, and the fourth one is the Executive Larger Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which was tasked with proposing also one candidate. Otherwise, I remind you that this very important body should have 16 members, so I ask you to help us choose this extremely important body in the voting day. Facultys and universities are in a very serious process of reform and transformation. Among other things, one of the first tasks of this council, when we form it, is the formation of a new accreditation commission. Otherwise, universities and universities have started the process of reform and transformation and have been waiting for the Assembly to form this very important body for several months, so I invite you to vote on the National Council for Higher Education in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24575	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, report for a word? Yes, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. Of course, the report that Mrs. Donka Banovic filed, I was involved in making him, and I'm not even talking about him, that's how it is, but I want to point two things out for the public. First, in this area where we have passed two key laws, one on the basic system of education and the other on higher education, somehow in the application of that law in the most important part, we find it ridiculous. When it comes to the education system, the National Council, here, has been down for two years. When it comes to higher education, what we now need to choose from the National Council for Higher Education again points out that we are not going to have much happiness from it, and it is very necessary and it is very important to choose as soon as possible. Why am I expressing my suspicion? I'm speaking in principle, I'm not talking about names. You see, the university conference when the candidates were proposed simply sent us a message that the rectors had moved, agreed on who to be, conducted the procedure and sent it. So of all scientific fields and artistic fields, we have a list of three candidates from the field of technical science. From Belgrade, where there are four candidates, two are from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. Isn't there really some other very respectable, isn't there a Faculty of Machines, isn't there some other respected colleges? Is it possible that among the ten top professors there are none in the field of Law School, the Faculty of Economics, and they are the strongest, political sciences? Is it possible that no candidate from these areas, from this sphere, has room in the council for higher education? This is what I wanted to point out for another reason. I'm under the impression that all the intelligence is slowly taking over the rector's college. The vice president of the university, of course, along with the vice president of BK University, I guess they think it's the only thing that's worth it from private universities, agree, implement the procedure and send it to you. Look at the list of ten names: three in the field of technical science, two in the Faculty of Philosophy, one in medicine. So, everything else is gone, at least according to this proposal, competent experts, which I don't believe and I don't think is true. Also, I don't want to believe that this is the first beginning of the establishment of a national council on higher education, stupid and poor, and it is necessary to form as soon as possible, not to experience the fate of that National Education Council. Why? To stop the university education development council from working as soon as possible. Why? Because he turned out to be older than the law. I'll give you just one example: the companies that applied for the establishment of the university in 2004, the Finex companies, the Micro, etc., I'm not interested in them at all, and I'm not interested in whether they should get permission, but here's another year they don't get it, and they don't reject them. The university education development council just keeps delaying. During that time, those who start college have huge costs, during which time there is obviously some lobby group that does not allow some new colleges to be formed. We have a situation that the University Education Council is older than the law. We have a rectorial college that last year, just days after the adoption of the law, he says – we will discuss the establishment of a university under the new law; they can be candidates who will provide evidence that they are joined at the university. Transitional provisions of the law say, and it should probably be older, that all procedures must be completed under the old law within six months. So obviously that the University Education Council has set itself above the law, the rector's colleges have become the main decision-making officer, which is evidence of both this and that just now. I wanted to warn the MPs and the public of the inadmissibility of such behaviour and that it was not a well done job to determine the list, and the need to establish this advice for higher education as soon as possible, in order to take over those jobs, very important and large, standing before it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24577	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DSS and SRS. I give my word to Professor Velimir Simonovic of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24578	Ladies and gentlemen, I have almost the same objections as my colleague Petronijevic from the SPS. Namely, when I received this material that you all have and the video list of what was proposed by the Serbian University Conference, I was somewhat surprised to see the two names of professors from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade. Let me tell you right now, I'm not contesting their qualifications, far from it. They are very qualified to be members of the National Council for Higher Education, both of them, as can be seen from their biographies. It is not right for two candidates from one Faculty of Electrical Engineering to be two candidates, and there are no candidates from other technical colleges, neither from Kragujevac or Nis, and I know very well that there have been very qualified candidates and from the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade and the Faculty of Engineering from Kragujevac. I don't know if Nis College had a candidate, I didn't ask. When I got this list, I talked to some deans of Belgrade Technical Colleges; they were surprised themselves, and I told them – gentlemen, and you were guilty of not being more active at the University Conference, so that instead of these two candidates some other candidates from some other colleges, you were also very qualified. Baška, what his colleague said, is there's no one here, say, from legal and economic sciences. But according to the situation we're in, we need to choose as soon as possible this National Council, so it can work and arrange our higher education, I have no intention of challenging this choice, I won't do it. We need to pick them as-so. I'm telling you, it's the Deans of individual colleges that weren't more active in proposing candidates themselves, etc. Therefore, it is not worth arguing about now. We should choose members as they are proposed, given that, as I said, they really do have qualifications, so that the National Council can start working as soon as possible and start sorting out a lot of things in our higher education. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24579	The word is from MP Milan Veselinovic of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals, as well as in the proposal for a law on higher education, were against the election of the National Council on Higher Education, as well as that of the Systemal Law on the Foundations of Education, when the Educational Council for Primary and Secondary Education was elected. That's when we explained it. You must remember that we spent almost all night arguing about that law. You did not respect our remarks at the time, but you stubbornly move on to carry out what you intend to do. In fact, we chose the National Educational Council two years ago, and until today, the council only met once, and there was only a count of how many members there were, without the election of a president or an election by the President of the National Educational Council, an academic and a man who did not want to accept it. For two years now, the Council has not been working, although according to the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, it has had extremely large powers. We also said that this is further red tape of our society, for the reason that we have competent sectors in primary, secondary, pre-school education, etc. at the Ministry of Education. It's the same for higher education. We were against the election of the National High Education Council. He will likely experience a similar fate as the educational advice we chose two years ago. His fate is seen from the discussion of you who make up the majority here in the Assembly, and normally in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, there is a split between you two about the candidates' proposals for the National Council for Higher Education. You can see for yourself that this schedule is not well done. So there is no proposal from all branches of higher education, but it is summed up on proposals from Belgrade, even ignoring the University of Nis, Kragujevac. Therefore, when it comes to this National Council for Higher Education, which you will likely adopt these days and choose these people, with the full respect for their names and titles they bear, I believe that the agony we Serbian radicals have continued and predicted in the adoption of the Law on Higher Education. That's why I want to say that the fact that you're passing some laws, something that isn't applied in practice, is actually a new imposition on citizens of Serbia. These are new expenditures, new costs that cost all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we will not interfere with the names you have proposed, let it be your argument and your difference, but I would like to point out this adoption and selection of the National High Education Council in fact will be just another delusion in higher education and an even greater division, related to higher education. A colleague mentioned that rectorates solve almost independently all problems and proposals, especially regarding the establishment of new universities. So it's all in the hands of the recession. This will be just one farce, where the same people will be asked again, will be asked by those who rule the state of Serbia, and this National Council for Higher Education will be another imposition and cost for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24581	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had an extraordinary education in this country. Our colleges, our high schools, our vocational schools gave highly qualified and quality experts who, the moment they crossed the border and entered the factories, the design bureaus, showed themselves. Today, the world has several very sonic names from all areas of science that come from these areas. Your last example is a doctor born in Leskovec, I don't know his name, who made a boom in the field of genetics. Then came the Bulldozer Revolution, and you came and you started waving at other declarations first, and now you're waving at the Bologna Declaration. The destination of this unfortunate Vuksanovic and he behaves in the ministry of education as an elephant in a glass shop, whatever it reaches destroys. We had a national education council and, in my opinion, it worked relatively well. We are now creating a national council for higher education only. For what? It's basically that you've started slow since 2002, so we're saying that you're losing your university foothold, and now you're turning colleges into different sublegal and legal acts, into working units, and you're putting decision-making up to the record level, and then you need people who are going to be alike, who are going to accept and implement this. Why is there no representative of all scientific areas in this National Council? It's very simple, you don't have people from your structures. It doesn't matter what he's doctored on, it matters what membership card he's got in his pocket. That's your basics. That's why it can be done by electrotech, and I'm not going into how professional people are, how many scientists, what they've accomplished from the field they're dealing with, but they're members of the larger or smaller DOS that's now ruling. Minister Vuksanovic, ladies and gentlemen, systematically destroys our education, from primary school to university. Our education comes down to a level that will provide cheap and semi-dumb labour for those who advise you and who should come from the West and pick up everything else. A recent statement shocked anyone who thinks little in Serbia – if the referendum in Montenegro succeeds, that nothing will change compared to Montenegrin students. After two days of correcting that statement, he didn't mean it, he said, but he didn't mean it. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the referendum in Montenegro succeeds and Montenegro becomes a state, students from Montenegro will be foreign citizens who will pay as much as Greek students pay, as the students of all the surrounding countries pay. I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister and to the government to do something, both urgently and thoroughly, in the area of education, to be replaced by Minister Vuksanovic immediately. There was no greater vermin in the area of education than he was.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24583	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24584	Ladies and gentlemen, the assembly majority, on a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, proposed a agenda that was barely adopted yesterday. In that agenda, it's a set-up, it's mostly about what choices and probably that you in the congregation majority, and also the government, think these are completely irrelevant things. Of course, we in the SRS don't think so, and that's why we're very surprised that Minister Vuksanovic is not sitting here today, because if the election of members of the National Council for Higher Education is not a topic that MPs need to talk about and should be heard by Minister Vuksanovic, then I really don't know what it is. However, Minister Vuksanovic is the loudest in catching Ratko Mladic. He holds conferences in the government, and I now expect the minister to say something about his portfolio, to his ministry, and he sets deadlines for the arrest of Ratko Mladic, talks about the importance and priority of the arrest. It's just amazing how much the Serbian government and its members lost the compass. There is no more knowledge of what is in whose jurisdiction or who does what. It is obvious that they are counting down the last days and are then trying to finish some of their personal affairs, which are why they actually came to the Serbian government and that is what is devastating and will leave a negative mark after the government's departure. When it comes to the National Council for Higher Education, like my colleagues, I won't talk about names. This is usually the principled position of the SRS – when it comes to some positions, we consider that one who has a majority, who is the ruling coalition responsible for these specific positions and, of course, we leave it to him to propose and choose. We generally don't vote when it comes to specific names and we don't give any concrete examples, but we're speaking in principle, we're talking about institutions, we're talking about a system of higher education at all. I'll just remind you, when we passed these two laws in the field of education, that we Serbian radicals used maximum time, that we had many amendments and that we tried to draw your attention to what, unfortunately, had already begun to happen in the field of education. Of course, Mr Markovic said that when we talked about this law, we said that in addition to one national council, there was no need to form another advice for higher education, that it was a completely unnecessary duplication of functions which, unfortunately, essentially mean nothing. I even allow you to have good intentions when you voted for this and you thought it would really have the right function, but I also believe that you are aware of what a failure it was. The destruction of education in Serbia, especially higher education, has started since the beginning of 2001, from Gasa Knezevic, of course, and now ends with Slobodan Vuksanovic. The difference between them is, unfortunately, when it comes to what I want to talk about, there is nothing, or there is. What's the problem? The problem is that the main and sole goal of education ministers, from Gassa Knezevic to today, was Serbia's denaciation. This is what Gašo Knezevic spoke publicly and openly in his own time. I will remind you only of the time when Gašo Knezevic, then minister, kicked out of the university of Professor Vojislav Seselj, when he published his famous – him or me. Of course, he had the power back then and he did what he did. Of course, Professor Vojislav Seselj couldn't get the professor's title, that's something he personally earned. In a procedure conducted before the First Municipal Court, there is a judicial decision to return Vojislav Seselj to college, but neither was he interested, nor wanted to return in such a way, but he conducted the procedure to prove that he was right. There's a judicial verdict that he was right. At that time in the Faculty of Law, next to Gaša Knezevic, the man Stevan Lilić, a devious and dirty plagiarist, who is also found in a judicial verdict and was published in one of the books of Vojislav Seselj "Dosmanley Fairs at the Faculty of Law", the Supreme Court ruling where Stevan Lilić plagiar was proved. Such people started some kind of reform of higher education, and those who came after so well blended in and continued that denunciation that it was really worrying. When we talked to you about the Bologna Declaration, when we convinced you that the Bologna Declaration and those obligations from the Bologna Declaration were deleted from the law, you thought you were something bigger, more pro-European-oriented than we were when you advocated that Bologna Declaration. We've been telling you that no one in Europe is applying it, that the Bologna Declaration is not binding, because if it were binding it would be called, and that fellow lawyers know the resolution, not the declaration. We told you all this, you didn't want to hear it, and what do we have today? Today we have the fact that our history textbooks are being written in Bologna. It's going to be the scariest liquid of this government. Everything you've ruined, what the government has ruined, and what it's ruining both in the sphere of economy and in other areas, all of it can somehow be compensated. More will be done, the economy will come to life, people will start to work, they'll start to live better. Of course, it's a long process, but there's hope. I ask you: Where is our hope when one or several generations of students are destroyed? It's a truly irreparable loss, and it won't help even some new government. Of course, it will be for future generations, but what remains mutilated by the Bologna Declaration and your Higher Education Act will remain permanently maimed. You remember, and that's what we told you about, the few generations that were destroyed so-called. Assumptions, they were permanently mutilated for a general education that could not be acquired in such schools, and from that generation, students who had finished, and now people who had finished these "shuves"... I watched with my own eyes in the neighborhood that a student, who was then in the third grade of a commercial school, fills the puzzle and stands there – a town in Vojvodina, and three letters are in question, says Pec. It was the result of the "sugar" at the time, and today we have such and even more drastic consequences of the Bologna Declaration. Just smile, buddy, this is so sad that nobody really should smile at these comments, especially since you all know I'm telling the absolute truth, and so do the citizens of Serbia. Of course, Serbian citizens do not know that today there are only two professors of Serbian history, actually a professor of objective history, who are trying to impose themselves and that their textbooks come to students in secondary schools and colleges. One of those professors is Professor Nikola Žutić. I can't think of another now and apologize to him, I can't remember his name. All others are anonymous, all others are unobstructed to Serbia, to the harm of Serbian national interests and, unfortunately, sell our history for small money, for personal interests. That's what happens to us when it comes to Serbian. You all know that almost all Serbian writers have been kicked out of classes from both Serbian and secondary schools, but, thank God, I have to say that 80% of the educators, regardless of these recommendations they receive from both Minister Vuksanovic and from all your advice, work on those old programs; still our children in schools learn both the real history and the real Serbian language. Why am I intervened? What's the problem? The problem is that teachers who are already people of age will disappear, who teach as they know they should surrender and who have not succumbed to all these innovations. When they leave school, of course in the meantime the government and the law will change, but I have to warn you that when these people leave school, we're going to get fully-educated generations. And then this college thing... Do you see what's going on? Are you reading the paper what happens in schools, from elementary, high school, to college? Do you see who forms all the colleges, how you have put the law on the right footing for everyone, so now you have former ministers, and Pitic, and Gaš Knezevic and so on. Everyone has colleges, professors of the university, here they've been preparing their own territory through laws, as they are now preparing themselves through laws. You, my dear colleagues, as we won't be in that film, and then I guess you'll understand, as I suppose many have understood, and who are not sitting in the MP benches of the DS right now, what we told them at the time when Gašo Knezevic here, in his semi-drinking state and in our trainers, represented a law on higher education. So, I know that what I'm saying today, unfortunately, can only leave some trace in public, that you're all thinking that maybe you're initiating the government to propose amendments to the law. The law is what it is, but we can at least take care of it and turn public attention to the minister, and to these advices and to the one you choose today, the one you choose, to make sure that Serbia's denacization is not continued, that education is the most important link, that any loss in education is irreparable. So I ask you that you who know these people, who you propose, make sure that at least they meet those qualifications, whether at least they will take care of that right now, in fact, of Serbia's greatest national interest at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24585	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the City of Kragujevac Assembly is at a session held last week in our city of the year of the university. Since the mayor of the town of Kragujevac is, as usual, absent from this session of the Assembly, I am really surprised that he did not find fit to oppose, as someone who supports this coalition in power, such a proposal that came before the National Assembly, not from local patriotism, because it is something that normal people and politicians who need to care about the whole state, about the whole nation, about the education of the nation should not work, but simply for the reason why there is really one logical question here – why so many years ago, 30, 40, 50 and more in Serbia are established universities in other cities, not only in Belgrade, that one such proposal should be found before lawmakers today. One professor from the University of Nischi and the way in which a conference of representatives of professors who proposed and others who gave an opinion came to such candidates is something that no one reasonable can accept. A colleague recently mentioned the Faculty of Machines in Kragujevac; not only the Machine, which is indeed a prestigious higher education institution, but also other universities within the University of Kragujevac were not treated. Another logical question arises – if reciprocity is not respected, what will this National Council for Higher Education do when we already have a national council? However, for this national council, which treats the lower level of education, there were also proposals for a return, that the MPs themselves, on the night that around four or five in the morning voted on these proposals, did not know how to decide, nor did it agree with representatives of all your coalition parties and those who support you. I also have to tell you that I remind you that the selection of individual members of that previous council is simply illegal, because not only did Predrag Markovic's president invite MPs to vote for only one of the proposals, and that in such a way the Assembly should declare on which proposal has passed, or who has the most votes, but it happened that some MPs have voted several times, that it does not really know who the real and legitimate representative is. On the other hand, it is totally unacceptable that Vuksanovic is not here. If you were watching the other night, and I was really in the change in the program on a variety of our channels, chasing this news as far as you're going when it comes to Carla del Ponte and the other villains and hunters of the Serbian heads, I came to the situation to watch (and since today comes to Belgrade, you're probably happy, you're bright, you're all beautiful and colorful), that 20 minutes I've been following his exposure, or a fight with a journalist, Studio B. I really don't have anything to say in favor of either the superlativist, nor the negative for a woman who is editor and author of that show, but that's how the minister performs, and we've had a chance to see it in the Assembly, no one could justify it. We MPs and party representatives in one duel can talk so much about all the negative consequences of the now adopted law, but that he simply says so, because the woman is talking about the fact that there have been numerous objections that parents, which are those who manage our school institutions, and he says – you have not prepared well for the show, I have nothing to talk about with you etc. Is it normal and is it normal that the minister isn't here today? What there is for him rather than to come and defend such a composition of the National Council, because it is a future guideline and what these people will do under the laws that are voted upon. But, again, and that doesn't surprise me, because when it was on the agenda of the Higher Education Act, he came out here twice and told him nicely then our authorised representative, Professor Milet Poscurica - and you don't know anything about this, and you have fellow regular teachers present in the benches in your coalition group, so ask them if you don't know that much. Did they even inform him, since this proposal came before us, who are these people and how are these candidates? Now you can say – are all those people with references, distinguished experts in their field, but it is the National Educational Council. First, why there is at all, it is our opinion and we have told you in the election of the law, the previous package, then the one about higher education, that there will undoubtedly be such lobbying and disrespect for what people in science give in the whole of Serbia. Where are the people who are out of town, unfortunately, the University of Pristina, where people from other universities are, not to mention only Kragujevac, but I'm making a point on purpose, because the entire City Assembly has decided that in this year, the university of our city is not only marked through various manifestations, but that a clear warning to both the minister and the entire government that indeed all the problems that some of the schools of the Kragujeva University are neglecting, and now it's seen on the basis of these proposals. When a colleague of Radeta spoke about all the negative consequences of the Bologna Declaration, and also mentions teachers who propose from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, I don't know if you followed about 15 or 20 days ago what these young people, students, really the future of this country, people who are not only good students, but obviously those who care about the nation and the fate of their country and the fact that they want to stay here and start families and build careers and the future, think about the Bologna Declaration. They are not confused because they have succeeded in this short time, in these few months, to understand what frameworks they are moving in, and what they have to adapt to, but in the survey that the editorial has done, it seems to me, the "Belgrade Programme", or "The Morning Programme", I don't remember, mostly it was RTS, they clearly and unequivocally said that it was a disaster, that it would be much harder for them to do, what we said, and that this would devalue all those positive, years and decades, with some exceptions and those experiments that were conducted in that short time of one- and communistism, trends in education in Serbia, which in this way, and in this way, the choice of the National Council, are being put out. We were discussing how far the University of Kragujevac arrived, which colleges should be helped, why this year of jubilee and then we touched one fact that is now in this context and this story, and in today's time and the way that Vuksanovic and this government are all these innovations and the Americanization of education and all that comes from the West unspeakably accept... Recalling the establishment of Lice and the first reading site in Kragujevac, and the beginning of higher education in Serbia, the education of the most distant Serbs, we talked about it, and these are indeed indisputable historical facts, that Serbs and statesmen from that period in modern Serbia from the end of the XIX and the beginning of the 20th century were the fact that the Russians as a people and brother Russia were the closest to us because of the fact that they were always at the price of their universities, their higher education. At that time, when in Kragujevac at the end of the XIX century, the first scientific editions from many foreign languages began to be translated into Russian school, mainly by all future professors and scientists, especially in all areas of social science, especially legal sciences, to respect the achievements that Russia had, or their scientists. Not only are you making fun of today when we talk about it and the fact that both the economy and the co-operation on that side, and not to talk about this exchange of experience with Russia at all and in the field of science, but the slap, in the right sense, has been given to you by these students that I just mentioned, was surveyed 15 days ago. They said that the Bologna Declaration and the law that came into force is something that will make it difficult for them to study in Serbia and that these innovations and the way they now have to work, and now everything under the patronage of this national council, as proposed, can only bring even bigger problems. Everything that we had as a state and a people, and what people in the field of science have achieved, is simply thrown under the feet. It's obvious that you've rejected 80 percent of that frame and what those scientific workers did to you, individuals you don't even have on the list and you don't even know if they exist or don't exist, because in this way you've made a proposal that no one reasonable can vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24587	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word representatives, or the president of parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Albianic, the G17 Plus Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24588	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the agenda of the National Council for Higher Education. I think two things are necessary for education in Serbia as a whole. First, more investment is needed in education in Serbia in general. Secondly, it is important that education institutions, the institutions that we have formed in the laws that we have passed, function well. This is first important because three percent of gross social products are invested in education in Serbia today. Countries that have been developing or engaged in the development of the previous decades have significantly more invested in the area of education, meaning between six and ten percent of gross social product. So, I think it is necessary to reach a strategic agreement in Serbia, because of investment in the future, for future generations, that we really approach education funding in Serbia in a meaningful way and that this amount is increased every year. Today, of course, we have a proposal and a list of candidates for the National Council. G17 Plus respects the proposals submitted by the relevant institutions, and of course, we also respect the remarks that Professor Simonovic said, because he is a man who works in a higher education institution and has every right to do so. The choice of national council is very important for the following reasons. The National Council in its work cycle has the accreditation of higher education institutions, obtaining work permits, which is very important, because today in Serbia we are arguing, and especially through the press, as well as how certain universities, especially private, have been granted permission, is this all by the criteria that meet state universities and universities. At the same time, we argue that they all have equal chances by the same criteria and that there is no Ministry alone to cut off certain things, but here it is important to form this expert body, the National Council for Higher Education, in order to address these shortcomings in the current procedures or our objections that may not have been established. Therefore, it is necessary for someone with a high reputation to say certain criteria by which everyone will have equal chances of accrediting and being institutions of importance for our country and working normally. The second thing that the National Council has in its jurisdiction is a reform of higher education. That's what's going on and on about it, but if we look at the structure of higher education, higher and higher now, you'll see that more schools that are two-and-a-half years old have less problems moving to three-year high schools. There are certain things and criteria they must meet. On the other hand, we have a problem with certain misunderstandings in law enforcement procedures, what about four-year colleges, how they will continue to function in the future and how they will adapt to the law that we have adopted here. There are far greater difficulties than we can see at first sight, and people are talking to us and they're saying that. The issue will be removed, too, by the National Council for Higher Education, because it is his duty. The third thing I was going to say is that we've opened up the possibility of doctoral studies at our universities with a new law. This creates an opportunity for Belgrade and Serbia to be the centre of doctoral studies of the Balkans, Eastern European countries, but also wider for other interested countries, because exchanges of students are also very important to us, but also to be a country centre for all others for such important education. On the other hand, it requires, as I have already said at the outset, some additional financial allocations to make it work in a good way. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, we have had opportunities here in public to hear that a young talent fund has been formed, so that students receive awards when they achieve results in international competitions and medals. Also, the best students receive scholarships for schooling in the country, but also for a number of students studying abroad, which is very good. This separation is still not enough to really motivate young people in the best possible way to stay here and contribute to the development of our country. The G17 plus will support these proposals, respecting the fact that really significant institutions are proposing them. I've tried in a certain way to point out the things that are going to happen and the meaning of what we're doing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24589	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will join the vote on the proposed candidates for members of the National Council for Higher Education in the voting day. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: – DEFINITIONS AND THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL PUBLISHING COUNCIL You have received a report, with correction, the Committee on Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the discussion of information from the Ministry of Education and Sports since 24 February 2006 on the work of the National Education Council. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search. Is the reporter of the committee responsible reporting for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a representative of the Committee on Education, Donka Banović, president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24590	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, so that there will be no re-application at the expense of Mr Vuksanovic's minister of education and sports, I will explain why I am reporting – because both previous and this point are something that the Assembly must do. I agree that the choice of members of the National Council, the previous one, and now the resolution and election of the new president of the National Education Council may be a reason to open a discussion on the state of education, pre-school, primary and secondary, but I am quite a practical person and I think we should concentrate on this. There were, of course, some objections from earlier discussions and from MPs who make up the assembly majority and by the opposition, but I would ask you to focus on what is required to be done in these two points. The third point, therefore, is the resolution and election of the President of the National Educational Council. I'm going to remind you again of a few facts, which is that in March of last year we elected members of the National Educational Council. So to keep those two things out of the way, so the one we talked about earlier is the advice that needs to be formed, there's nothing wrong with the procedure. So you have before you candidates, or four lists that the board has concluded are valid and we will decide on. This National Educational Council was chosen, so in May 2005, we elected 41 members. According to the Law on the founding of a system of education and education, the assembly also elects a president. We chose the president, however, based on the report we received from the ministry, it is evident that this body is in some kind of blockade, or that for personal reasons the elected president cannot properly perform that function. You also received information in the report that the National Educational Council met once, but because of the president's failure, I can say that it was more of a solemn session, not even the Rules of Procedure was adopted, simply because of the inability of the president to come. So, I have to admit, there are some bad phenomena, not bad phenomena, but maybe, as one colleague said, they're a little sloppy, that it's done a little sloppyly, but these are new methods, new procedures, something that the Assembly, as far as I know, hasn't done in previous terms, so it's understandable. And we can't always predict what can happen to some person we, say, choose as president. The ministry, as well as the associations and members who have been elected, beg the Assembly to deblock this body, is the only way to resolve the president and choose a new one. So in voting day, of the 41 members who make up the National Educational Council, I ask you to think carefully and choose a new president, so that this body can work.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24591	Are the representatives of the MPs' clubs answering for a word? Yeah. Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24592	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly regarding the election of the President of the National Educational Council. We formed this institution by adopting the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. The importance of the election of the President of the National Education Council is enormous for the reasons that the National Educational Council's ingenuities are: the adoption of curricula and programmes, the proposal of textbooks and many other things, such as knowledge standards, etc. So, basic things in school, elementary and high school, they are in charge of the National Educational Council and it is therefore important that the institution finally works. I will now tell you, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, we have formed, so: Ministry of Education and Sports, Institute for Improving Education and Education, Institute for Valuation of Quality of Education and Education and the National Educational Council; or rather, I said, in reverse: National Educational Council as top, institutions, ministries. And there's actually the whole education functioning, which all three institutions need in a mutually good way to coordinate and bring in what they're responsible for. This is very important, and the highest jurisdiction, by law, belongs to the National Educational Council, and professional preparation of materials for the National Educational Council is primarily provided by the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. The ministry has a post of supervision, control and other matters, but these two institutions will be the bearers of education in Serbia today and tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24593	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yes, please, MP Veselinovic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24594	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when we listen here to the representatives of the authorities talking about the importance of the National Educational Council, ordinary people might understand it as if nothing had ever existed in education and education, as if something new was now beginning with the formation of this National Educational Council. Well, for God's sake, here's two years already, how we've formed the National Educational Council, and because of one president, like, there's been a blockade of the work of the National Educational Council. We got together once, it was like a formal session and it ended. Is it possible that all these birthday girls and all this praise for some new body that you invented under the orders of the European Union or your employers, as if so far there was nothing good about education and education, but from now on something new begins, especially with the election of the president of the National Educational Council? There's no Minister of Education here today, because he does everything and everything, he just doesn't do his job. You know that now, depending on what it is and where it is humiliated by the Serbian government, it does so in order to preserve this assembly majority. The case of Novi Pazar, the Trade and Economic School, is also an example, where, outside the law and all regulations, the director and, normally, the school board are appointed without respecting local self-government decisions, i.e. local parliaments. It's done all over Serbia. You heard from this pay phone that he is now even taking over the interior minister's intelligence, threatening to chase General Mladic. That's what the Minister of Education is like, that's what kind of vermin we've chosen. Well, I don't know, from 2000 to today, whether he was a worse minister, comparing him and Gashu. We don't know what's going to happen any further, but this is really the end for education, and on that path we have to stand at the cost of both educators, pedagogical services and all those who are involved in education raising their voice publicly against the minister of education Vuksanovic. Today, when we talk about the National Educational Council, we have well realized that this advice has not worked for two years. The National Educational Council doesn't work, but still business is done at the Ministry of Education. Normally, the large obligations and responsibilities that will be attached to the National Educational Council will be taken away from those sectors in the Ministry of Education who have now done so. First of all, making plans and programmes for next year, making textbooks and all that is necessary for the education and functioning of education in the next school year. All these discussions come down to the fact that we Serbian radicals were right when we said almost two years ago about this speaker that the election of the National Educational Council was, in fact, a ballast in education, not to mention new financial expenditures from the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, because of your employers you have adopted this and today you will likely choose the president of the National Educational Council, but it is enough that he will again, God forbid, be prevented from doing this function, that the work of the National Educational Council be blocked again. So I'm saying that what we're doing, wasting so much time, is actually in vain, and it's particularly harmful for education and education in our country. Instead of being committed primarily to the material state of education, the equipment of schools, that we have dedicated ourselves to perfecting educational workers, we are going backwards today, we respect certain declarations that are not binding anywhere in the world, but are just recommendations. We're attached to these declarations so we can get in touch with some of your mentors abroad. Today, when we talk again about the National Educational Council, the system of basic education, secondary education and education laws, we can conclude that these two years there has been no shift in this area, although we have talented students, although our talents also take first place across Europe and the world. We can freely say that in this area very little has been done and quite little has been invested in the past two years. So I urge from this pay phone that we transfer the subject from the election of the president of the National Educational Council to where real problems exist, which is, above all, the material position of educational workers and the material position of the entire education in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24595	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the resolution and election of the President of the National Educational Council in the voting day. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – The election of members of the Competition Protection Council of the Commission has been received by the list of candidates for the selection of members of the Competition Protection Council, submitted by authorised promoters: the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, the Scientific Society of Economists of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia rather than the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received a report from the Committee on Trade and Tourism, with a correction. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism want the People's MP Rajko Baralic, chairman of the Committee? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24596	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a few things to point out, since not all the deadlines for this matter have been respected, and they are not respected because the Committee on Trade and Tourism has not done a part of the work that belonged to it in good time. I'm obliged to give an explanation. Therefore, the Committee on Trade and Tourism of the National Assembly numbers 11 members: four from the SRS, two from the DS and all others have a total of five. So it doesn't reflect most of those parties that form or support the government. We, with a certain delay, held this session, thanks to good service and co-operation of colleagues from the SRS, but not within the prescribed deadline. The next thing I want to point out - by law, the proposings were obliged to submit proposals to our Committee within the prescribed time limit. This right was not exercised within the legal deadline by two authorised proposings, which are the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Bar of Lawyers. Since, by law, at the end of that deadline, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is competent to propose on behalf of those who did not do so within the legal deadline, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done so in accordance with the law, and after that, the Bar Association has objected. These days, I must say, once again, the Bar Association is advertised with me in a letter, both to the National Assembly and to the Ministry. As lawyers sit in the Bar, I must say that the Bar of Lawyers did not exercise the right that belonged to her within the legal period, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, in accordance with the law, rightly used it and proposed candidates she thought should support, while not respecting the proposal of the Bar of Lawyers, which also belongs to her by law. So, it's not the Bar Association that's been damaged by the government of the Republic of Serbia's doing something illegal, it's the Bar Association that missed the deadline and did not, in accordance with the law, make a timely proposal. So there's no other story about it. What I'm trying to say is it's precious to pick, on Monday, on the basis of the law, five out of 10 proposed candidates. There's one complicated procedure, lots. We've already chosen members of the Broadcasting Council. In a variety of years, we choose individual members. So it is very important that we choose these people because the competence of this council is very important with regard to the prevention of concentration on the market, unfair competition and any other effects that this phenomenon has. So this is a regulatory body that will do the job in the best possible way. I call on my colleagues to, in my conscience, on the basis of their personal assessment and knowledge of the candidates, on Monday, on a voting day (as I understand it, it will be a day for voting), out of the 10 proposed candidates to choose five. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24597	Natasa Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I am the vice president of the Trade and Tourism Committee. This relationship between the forces mentioned by Mr Baralic is, in fact, the reciprocity expressed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're strongest, most of all, and he didn't want to, but so she had to be respected when electing the president, deputy president and the number of members of the SRS. The second question is whether we agree with some bill or with the solutions offered by Minister Dimitrijevic, Kostunica, the Republic government or not. When we voted on a proposal to protect competition law and because of the fact that the law has led to the election of a commission to deal with it, we said it was an unfavourable solution, that it would cost the state, that these people would be paid out of the budget, and that they were actually creating an illusion. Basically, there will be a farce as similar as with the National Education Council, that the Commission and the members of the commission will be able to prevent what counterpart Baralic was talking about, unfair competition to protect the domestic market, our producers, and that in such a way we will go into the regulation of relations on our market and that the system of supply and demand is the only one in terms of survival on the market and the business of private businesses and those who appear with their products on the Serbian market. The situation is actually quite different. Here you have the proposal of Slobodan Milosavljevic in front of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. To ask him, since the lobby of the Democratic Party and the direct influence of Boris Tadic came to that place, what he did as president for all this time – nothing, except take pictures in every place, talked everywhere and just talked about programming differences, as if there was some difference between DS and the ruling coalition. There is no difference, for while they were in the congregation, they did not make any fundamental remarks about the law. But if someone is at the head of a single state's Chamber of Commerce has to bear in mind that some other countries, friends of all like Russia, have their own presidents and representatives of chambers here and that economic diplomacy, besides this general diplomacy led by that unfortunate Vuk Draskovic, is something we would have to pay a lot more attention to, but not in places and countries where they've been arrested, chamber representatives and attachés in trade embassies to receive good wages, to be placed in nice residences, rather than to essentially do something to promote our production, market and what we're willing to export to other countries. I have to remind you of that fiasco that happened last year in November when we as a state, or those who took on that role, and that Angelko Trpkovic, Milosavljevic, Kostunica and the Government, tried to promote what the Serbian economy has or should have, just to put on its feet, but apparently there is nothing from that job, by organising a fair event in Moscow. First, Kostunica did not go to that event to promote Serbia's economy there, because, for God's sake, Putin did not receive it. It's his problem, and it's Putin's to say who he wants and when he wants to take it. Our MPs, who by popular will, above all Dr Blazic and Dr Cvetanovic, by the will of the council president in Leskovac, went there to represent the interests of their region and their municipalities, are witnesses that it was a fiasco. Instead of also sending representatives of the government (who sent Kostunica there to change it, that is irrelevant), the Trade Minister, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, the director of the Fair, returns with a bunch of signed contracts with Russian businessmen -- there is no single contract. The Russians wanted, I have to remind you, and we'll talk about the next item of the agenda between them and buying the Cool Bank. Who is it that prevents Russian capital from coming to our country? These days mark 15 years since the founding and very successful business of Lukoil, they have come into the situation to now renovate, i.e. take over Beopetrolov's pumps. Ask them in certain municipalities and cities in Serbia what difficulties they face. Now you're going to convince us that it's all great, the market works great, our booming economy, our products from Serbian factories as much as you want, and on the other hand, the import lobby does what it wants. In today's daily paper, I don't want to advertise it, but one of the read in Serbia, Assistant Minister of Trade and Tourism Srdjan Sredkovic says he doesn't keep an accounting record of certain businesses in Serbia, he doesn't care at all what happens to buying a product from Croatia, whether the outflow of capital from our country is so much and so much, a man doesn't understand it, and he's the assistant minister of business. They called him the Croats there and they wrote it in the title of Hrvoje, and you'll read it in the paper today, because it really is. If he allows, and the Ministry, that so many products come from Croatian factories, and that ours do nothing and shut down, then how will the members of this council, who are under the rank of Minister and Assistant Minister, this Lucky guy, do something (he is indeed a lucky man, but for himself) to regulate the situation on our market? If it wasn't sad, it would be funny, but it's very sad, because when you look at the external trade deficit, what we did last year, just take our food industry, try some factories to protect some Serbian brands. They failed to do so, we were run over by those Slovenians, banana Republicans, Croats and who do not because there is everything in Serbia and Serbian shops, but at least there are in these hypermarkets, and it is not respected, you know very well and know the members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, reciprocity in the representation of these products. There is no production in Serbia and no one has done anything but pass laws, commissions, election of members, that something fundamental in this regard changes and that something changes. How could it change? By not coming these Croatian tycoons so uninterruptedly, apparently because of the favor of the minister and this assistant of Sretkovic, to do and do what they will, but to have healthy capital, such as the attempts of these Russian companies, and only those two agreements signed by the town of Leskovac and the town of Kikinda were achieved, and only because they had relations, that is to say, with some cities in Russia that they could do business in such a way. I have to give you one piece of information, not to say we're just talking, and it's really the greatest value of that huge capital and healthy money that can come here, but just to give you an example. A chamber of Serb-Greeks was formed at the initiative of the Greek Chamber of Commerce in our country. That society of Serbian-Greek friendship has initiated, they have come into a situation to make some favourable arrangements. The Greek government, their economic relations ministry approved 40m euros in grant aid to Serbia last year. One economic magazine that started going out on our market a month ago, three numbers totaled it out, he wrote about it in detail. Imagine a nearly 50m-euro grant and people from the Greek Chamber of Commerce, or the Serbian-Greek Association, are now coming, the minister of economic relations appears and says – so you know how many applications have arrived for these donations from Serbia last year. So, these are the grants for entrepreneurship, and we are constantly told by the Minister of Economic Relations that the level of services is the lowest possible in the environment, so that we can raise the level of entrepreneurship to a higher level, which we really are, because in the 19th century we have been advocating Europe as a country in this sense and this spirit of entrepreneurship is also how developed with us. Then, for designing projects in terms of our warfare, livestock, fruit-planted complexes, vegetables, these are very clearly defined conditions, and for the fair space, for the space that is in the function of entrepreneurship and small businesses – last year, believe it or not, several individuals competed for these funds, in total amounting to three or four million euros. They say they are interested in working with countries in the region, 45m euros wants to give to individuals who can start their production, small and medium-sized enterprises. Neither the state came forward on that point, nor did anyone talk about it, nothing happens. So how do you expect to prevent unfair competition in the market by this choice? In particular, there are really certain candidates and their references and what they did, but anyway, let's not go in, because this is not a choice of legal holders, like yesterday, so we don't go from name to name and talk about it. But how will they work alongside all these obvious not barriers, but scandals that occur and leave Serbian businessmen at the mercy of the extremely unfair competition that comes through the import lobby, hardly anyone will be able to explain. When they meet and are chosen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all to look at, the basic economic parameters in which our economy is today, our trade, what is the ratio of our goods to export quotas, what is the extent to which imports, what is the most coercive over these import lobbys, and that you do not believe and such another fragrant data, are they going to oppose, that for 56 million dollars, believe it or not, fresh fish and processed imported into the Serbian market. From our fisheries that exist throughout Vojvodina and Serbia not only could one kilogram be exported directly, this can be done exclusively by over three registered companies in Montenegro, so what are we talking about? We are importing fish from the Czech Republic, and here we have fishcombinates, and that imports are about 30, 40, maybe up to 50 million dollars or euros. This is all a farce and a public delusion that something will be better. These people, whether they choose them or not, are of course not for solutions like this, they will not be able to prevent everything that is done on the Serbian market and at least unfair competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24599	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't turn around, right to tell you, from my bench; we have a total of ten representatives of the ruling majority, 11, I apologize. So, it is important that the citizens of Serbia know that, with what attention and responsibility you are following not only the discussion, but how much you are interested in what is happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Some will then vote as party leaders tell them, and they have no idea what they're voting for or what they're voting for, or how the debate was going, or anything like that. By the way, there are about three or four times as many Serbian radicals as all representatives of the ruling coalition combined. So much for the attitude towards the citizens of Serbia, towards our country, towards our people in general. This is a good opportunity to talk about something that is often talked about in domestic media, which is competition, the market, protection from monopolies, something that should be the rule, or the result of reform processes, as some say during the transition period, in the period since the beginning of what they say is the October 2000 democratic change. From that moment on, we have created, believe it or not, thousands, not tens and hundreds, thousands of various agencies, commissions, wonders for money laundering, whose only job is to make their members rich in as short a time as possible and how as much state money will be taken without knowing what they are spent on and what the purpose of spent money is. It was not an accident that Natasa Jovanovic mentioned, for example, Slobodan Milosavljevic and it is not by chance what the SPS says – so maybe we would crash, and perhaps we would not, as the backup party of the SPS, appear the Democratic Party that will say – and now we will support them. Because Milosavljevic would not have accidentally led the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the government would have kept quiet and the businessmen would not have said anything, and his ability, or incompetence, would have shown in the previous period. At the same time, we are talking about the development of tourism, trade, presenting our projects to this ministry, and I see that we are neither in the media sense nor in any other way able to compete with much smaller countries and incomparably less attractive both for trade and for tourism. Macedonia takes its commercials – 253 broadcasts on CNN; we are in no way able to present either tourism beauty, nor Serbia's production and trade advantages, and they are much larger than Macedonia, compared to some other countries in the environment. We didn't, because that's what money needs to be invested in completely public and because there's no way someone can get their hands on a suitcase or a bag or something and bring home money. This is the key difference between our countries and some other countries in the region. At the same time, does this reform process of protecting competition and curbing monopoly tell us those who have shown how competition is suppressed in our space. I will go from one example: the case of the privatisation of Cementara "New Popovac", in which, as you have seen, one broad competition is allowed – everyone from Zoran Djindjic's cabinet can participate, and anyone who was outside that cabinet should not have come near, not Novi Popovac, but should not have crossed the highway those days. So you can't go through Paracino by any chance. Some received threats, known Serbian businessmen. They were told – do not accidentally show up for privatisation, otherwise you will lose your hand. All of this was possible to see today, some of them only took millions of euros for one privatisation; that's only for one case, that's what was established, and who knows how many were, and it's not quite established. That's what went through the account, and what went in the cash no one alive can catch. Now that you say so, they come and say, "How dare you, have you seen how bold they are, how ruthless they are?" When I ask you by what law you gave a villa, and you tell me from the Serbian government – and according to the law on the property of the Republic of Serbia, a member of that and that. Now I think who knows what it says in that article, I'm going to read it now, since I haven't heard of that law. Maybe I was wrong. I don't know what this is about. Do you know what it says in that article that they assigned some kind of villa to Santa? He writes in a member – the Republic of Serbia has the right to dispose of its assets. Well, you're screwing up the nation. You're still saying, according to the law. No, we thought that the Republic of Singapore or I don't know the Kingdom that and that one had the right to dispose of the property. Then you say, "Yes, you have seen, you have dared to ask." That's what those who sit here and shut up when a minute of silence is held, those who say that whoever died or killed a day or two before that should burn in hell. So give us more moral sermons and moral lectures. And more yellow than you. Look what we're facing today. Those martyrs nothing. As for what we're talking about, look, people, how each kind of competition in all spheres of social life is suppressed in an unprecedented way. For days you've been listening, like Dad and Mom, they get together with B92 to salt our brains and give lectures about how they're the only professional and objective medium, and since it's a bad media situation, we need to put out everyone else so they can stay, and now we need one more and worse than B92 -- this RTL with this Maya Divac or I don't know who, even worse, to make it worse for Serbian citizens to watch and give their national resources to foreigners to destroy their national being in such a way. I don't mind foreign capital. On the contrary, in the municipalities where radicals rule, you see how it works, most foreign investment. It seems an accident, as some might say. It looks like an accident, it will. It's mostly from the West, but it will. Anyway, less corruption, less crime, less thieving, so they want to invest money there, people, what can I tell you? They don't seem to listen much to B92. They say, "Don't have them and they have to have them." Now I ask the question – what happens in this country if someone says they don't get the frequency? Then what are they gonna do? I'll tell you what, they're gonna cancel the contest because some people have to win. So, is that protection against competition, what are you talking about? Go out and say, anyone, that I'm wrong, come out and tell me – you're lying, Wolfie, it's not true what you said. There's as many of you as you want who thinks differently from me. Say this isn't true and it won't happen. I'm telling you in advance that B92 is going to get, which he didn't deserve because it's the dirtiest TV on Serbia's media scene. She is the dirtiest, she is, and you know it. They want to get the frequency? It will. Where is the protection of competition, did that call from the embassy protect the competition? Is that it? I tell you in advance, and you tell me I'm lying. Listen, the professional and objective criteria – Toma Nikolic killed someone, so there is no excuse, he says – we didn't say, she said, and they sent two unfortunates, wearing a picture of Tom Nikolic, you saw those martyrs, wearing a picture like Tito, and in style – do you know this, if you saw this, and then the key evidence of major crimes, they say – I remember that smile. They say, "I remember that smile." And then on B92 is the most represented SRS by your mother, your Serbian radicals, you criminals Serbian radicals, you crazy Serbian radicals, you psycho Serbian radicals, that's how. Now they say -- give some competition, it's an unsettled space, it's only supposed to be B92. You think it's a Serbian medium, it's not. Why don't you tell someone, why don't you tell them who owns that TV? We want to do the same thing with RTL, make it worse? Listen, Maya Divac, exactly the worst thing that would happen to Serbia. It's just that the Assembly doesn't choose any more of the Broadcasting Agency Council or anyone else, and don't let God say anything against them, he's going to be on a pillar of shame, but me, the right to tell you, I don't care. Every time they mention me it's a great honor for me, because in my own eyes first I feel, I see that I've done something good, then I know that people appreciate me much more. Whoever is attacked by B92, and richer and Pink and RTS, the people love it, it's a miracle. Look at the latest research, I have to tell you. So, as far as tourism and trade are concerned, especially trade, it's good for you, but not to protect competition, but to strengthen unfair competition by trading suitcases, bags, various miracles. As for tourism, we have a very serious topic here; Belgrade, first of all, but the whole of Serbia must see its future in the development of tourism and services. That's what we're behind most and where we could make the most progress. One Budapest has a two-billion-euro profit on an annual basis only from tourism. So, can Belgrade, which has a more favourable geographical position, primarily thanks to Savi and Dunavu, which has Calemegdan, an extraordinary treasure and tourist potential, at least reach 500 million? Yes, but investment is needed, not the transge-frange of Belgrade authorities, which of the lawyers will take a higher percentage, and how many companies in Germany will take, how many other companies, how many third firms and how many annexes will build to increase the price of works once, twice and three times. There's no hundred million dollars for bridges, of course there isn't, because they stole everything alive and took it. What would make of spectacular big projects, is there any of that? There's nothing. Is there money – there is, but they have to go into their pockets first, because they have a combination in everything and you know it well. There's one of your lawyers who's in combination with the "yellows" working there, there are three lawyers who, when you come to them (also mentioned by Djindjic, I saw in the notebook, one of them) you can't get in without holding your pocket and pulling 10,000 euros, to see if your eyes are blue, brown, green, yellow, red or black, so you have to shake 10,000 euros. Whatever you want, whatever you want, but that's how much you have to pay to protect the competition, so you know who can do that business, and then they open all the doors in town. You know how this job goes and you know exactly which companies can get a job and which companies can't get a job. I think people see it today. How about I don't talk about who works, for example, theaters, do you know who? To protect the competition, not to be many of those competitors who will take the money now. So does the son of Gorica Mojovic, no less, of the City Secretary for Culture. It's a protection of competition, it's that competition is between a son, a daughter, a mom, a dad, that they compete, and no one can compete outside the family. That's how they make a nice deal, that's how it works, the nice one, and in Belgrade when they land those ships, when they come out, they don't even have a souvenir shop, let alone something else to get, let alone someone to make some money on those tourists. It can't, because they put everything in their pockets, because that's how it works in this country, because that's the only way it can go. In our country we protected our products, it's a miracle one. Such competition, 28,000 tons of apples were imported, and that was terribly necessary, since we don't have Serbian apples, because they don't grow anywhere, we don't have plums, pears, so it took 28,000 tons of apples. That's why it was so important to insult all those who used to help Serbia with the goods and money loans, to say that Chinese medicines... Now I'm going to remind you of something they told us in 2000, they say – Chinese medicines are made for smaller people, for the yellow race. Do you remember that from their newspaper, do you remember those psychopaths who said those words? In the end, it turns out to be one of the three strongest countries in the world in the pharmaceutical industry, medical services, whatever you want. Now they're good Chinese drugs, now it's good China; it's good when yesterday she became the country with the largest foreign reserve in the world, 853 billion dollars. Well, good thing you saw the results in Ukraine, which these media outlets tried to hide from the competition, so they lied every day. Here, citizens of Serbia, what kind of frauds and liars, as the elections in Ukraine have ended, they have informed us that Janukovic leads, the people's man Janukovic with 27%, that Timoshenko is behind him with 24.5% and 17th and something Jušenko. They lied to Serbian citizens because Janukovic is not at 27% but at 31%, this is not at 24.5%, but at 21.9%. So they were knowingly lying, even though they knew in advance that they had received results from Kiev, not from Sevastopol, Dnipropetrovska and other parts of eastern and southern Ukraine, because they needed to be told that their defeat is much smaller than it really is, and do you know why, respected citizens? Because at the time Janukovic was destroyed, the growth of industrial production in Ukraine was 13%, and today, by yesterday, the growth of industrial production thanks to that Russian part, east and south, was only 2.5% of the terrible hunger and poverty in Kiev. Now the people have solved -- wait, so we want to live better, you've lied to us, you've told us fairy tales, just as we've been told here by fairy tales and lies to the people. That's why they voted. Now I still expect them to lie, what they're going to invent, what further stories they're going to come up with, how they're going to destroy the country in this region, just waiting for our political opponents to say we're guilty. I don't know if you noticed anything, this is now, Veronica, protection from competition, this now. So six years of radicals having nothing to do with power, absolutely nothing. We were a minority partner and were participants in the Serbian government from 1998 to 2000. We went out for six years, and we didn't want to take part in that transitional government, we're not hiding anything. We've seen a lot of thieves gathered in one place, from the DS and all the other parties, and come on, these caesolators, as the people popularly call them. Yes, all the CashoIs, they're all top hunters, and the best cashoIs. We saw it and moved away from the transitional government immediately. Today, their biggest problem is the SRS in their media protected from competition. I don't know if you noticed. Every day they make a contribution against the SRS, so that you may ask them, wait, people, whether these radicals have been ruling for six years. They say you've heard of it, in the past 10-15 years; so you've ruled for the last six years alone, as a sign of what you want in this country, robbed what you've come to and where you've come to. Who bothers you, then the guilty radicals. You know why they're guilty? Not because they would share in democratic, non-democracy or I don't know which one, but because we would prevent their competition. Do you know what competition is? Competition in a competition that's a bigger thief. That is the essential reason why they do not allow Serbian radicals or living heads to come to power, and therefore with such brutal means they will fight, as they did at the time of Milosevic's funeral, and you saw what the media looked like. You've seen how dirty the media has been, they say, they dare call someone, I apologize for what I'm saying, it's not all about competition, it's a little wider, hey, they say – someone's politically abused somewhere. What kind of bastards, what kind of people are they, the worst political necrophiles, so I've heard nothing but Zoran Djindjic for three years! For three years, you've been crying so well with Zoran Djindjic's eyes, with this, with what, I don't know what. They're not doing anything but talking about Zoran Djindjic. They're telling us that someone's a political necrophile. Those who organized the balloon at the time of someone's funeral, to say, we look forward to it because someone died somewhere. Who did that? Did anyone throw balloons when Zoran Djindjic was killed? It's not. Do you want me to tell you why, and I end up with that, and I'm proud to belong to the SRS Parliament Club – because we're normal people and some people think about what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24601	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24602	Mr. Chairman, you don't want to be angry, because these 5-6 dots are practically all about a choice, so if you find something in this what I'm saying about the previous agenda points, you won't mind, because this is all the same. I think the president of the National Assembly made a mistake, because from the second point to this last item of the agenda, it is not a formal condition for this to be found on the agenda. Why? Because in our official use in the National Assembly there is a Serbian language, and the letter is Cyrillic. We got here not only with the use of Latin, but even some Latin language. It's no longer a work résumé, but now it's a cururicum vitae. All those who wrote their curuuricum vitae should hurry here, because today Carla del Ponte is still here and let them give her their work résumé and point out their candidacy, as competition is allowed to past Natasha Kandic. Those with Cururum vitae do not need to appear to the National Assembly in this way, and if this assembly were in one normal session and there was no fear of whether 126 MPs would come and vote here, perhaps the professional service would notice that something like this should not be in the material distributed to MPs in the National Assembly. I have now taken this point of the agenda as an example, when it comes to the advice under the law on competition protection, but it is a similar situation with previous points concerning the educational council, the president of the Educational Council and this advice on higher education. In addition to the first principle remark, I must point out the second remark, specifically in addition to the election of members of this council, only formally and legally, two times as many candidates as the number elected by the authorised legislators set out in the law. He's got five official promoters. However, I doubt whether these people meet the conditions of doing this job. Here, one of the conditions that someone would be elected a member of this council is a slightly more rigorous provision aimed at preventing conflict of interest. Practically, one who is proposed to be elected a member of this council should not be in the management structures, nor in the legal person, nor should he be in a working relationship with one of these legal entities. We have at least two candidates here from JAT. It says in the biography that today they are in JAT, says – currently employed by JAT; that is, for example, this candidate Miroslav Stankovic and this one after him, Petar Trojanovic. That no one gets the wrong idea what I'm quoting names for, just for accuracy, and I absolutely don't know these people, and I don't have anything personal against them. I'm merely suggesting that these conditions are not formally met so that this proposal can enter into discussion and decision-making. If work and professional biographies are looked at, 50 percent of the proposed candidates have little to do with the market. It doesn't matter, especially these candidates of the economic adviser of the President of the Republic. These Milosavljevics. There isn't. They have nothing to do with it, but well, you'll sort it out your way, how you usually solve it, because democracy comes down to most, so now whether it's day or night, it doesn't matter. What will be the fate of this council when you're done voting? I hear you're announcing it'll be Monday. It will be the same fate as other collective bodies chosen in this National Assembly in accordance with some law. You just had a chance to hear about the situation with the National Educational Council. He somehow established himself, after how many years, and I think that at the end of 2004, we passed a law, that is, amending the law and predicting a different way of selecting members of that council. I just heard from an authorised board representative that this gentleman who was elected president held a session and ended the story. That's where it all ends. Then we talked about how it wasn't a good way to choose the law, and then we showed you, and then we made a little joke about you to figure out how serious it was. You remember that fish tank that Markovic kept here, so he was waving his hand around that aquarium to see if this one was chosen for three years or five, etc. The National Assembly can't be a national lottery. The state lottery is controlled by Zeljko Mitrovica. We can't work like that. It can't be just luck, scratching, it can't be. The profession must first and foremost come to terms, if it is referred to as an expert body or it is prescribed by law to be an expert body. It's obviously not a criterion here, it's a favor. I can't say political belongings, I can only say some affection, a kind attitude of someone who proposes to someone who commits to do anything as the proposer tells them to, if elected. It is not a neck, but a neck. So, again, some convenience. With this advice, absolutely half the people don't know what to do. In addition to all the fences, there is also a problem with the competence of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. We also warned you at higher education that the same situation would take place, and we warned you about the National Bank Council, but I'll talk about it a little bit later. Now, why is he insisting that the right organs with quasi jurisdiction, which should pretend that we have all the institutions, but what's worth, are not happening again, of course better. We formally have institutions, they don't function, their jurisdiction isn't defined, and it's determined by capillaries, so the system doesn't work. That's what DOS has been trying to do since October 5, 2000. It's called destroying the state. It's not a blind mark or a trail of something that's standard in Europe, no, but on paper there are institutions, those who work in those collective bodies will get pretty good wages just to keep quiet, as I did some time and comment, Labus will give everything just to vote here, because he says – pay just to pass. There's money for that, just let it pass here, and the state structure is destroying and it's started since October 5th. I'm going to count your first culprits, which is why this commission and this advice will only exist on paper. The SPO in this administration, at this fair, has a good time to do business while selling Danica Draskovic's burgers, and that is the ultimate range of the Serbian Renewal Movement policy, remember that. And when it's a book fair, and when it's a car fair, it's just burgers and beer, because it goes to the Draskovic family. Now, the destruction of the state structure began the moment Vojislav Kostunica asked for Serbia-Montenegro, at the time the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to join the United Nations as a new state. He didn't ask for a suspension, he asked us to join him as a new state. He didn't consult the federal government, he didn't consult the federal assembly, he only consulted someone who's in power in America, and he told him -- submit that request, we'll handle it before the new year, because next year there will be problems in the US presidential elections. And, behold, miracles were so, and that Svilanovic ran to be present with that officer when our flag rose; then he rose, and after a few years the state was gone. The second in those two without the helm was Mr. Labus. He allowed total liberalisation of our market. The last effect of that liberalisation is the customs rate law; it is reportedly impossible to agree with Montenegro, we need to protect textiles, they do not have textiles, they need something etc.; it is this simple story that should be a distraction. We have a situation today that all citizens of Serbia are model voyeurs as they walk, as they watch windows that are full of foreign goods, but what is worth, there is no money to buy. I know someone's heart is a lot to look at, but it's cramping his stomach and he's not happy. What's the state of competition? Milk is made by Ustashas, a diet sold by Slovenians, just to remind you, the same ones who killed our soldiers, our recruits in Slovenia in 1991 without ammunition, without weapons, Serbian children. In this congregation there was a protest of mothers who simply sought the right to live their children who went to serve the army, who were not even in military formation. Why did they come here? Because there is an agreement that has concluded an international government with the Russian Federation on customs relief, i.e. a zero customs rate, so that we have a place to export and maintain business and trade co-operation. Now they've come to win our market and our market has been won. There's no goods, there's little of our goods, but it's meaningless. Just to remind you, when Svilanovic hired his wife at Mercator, and Mercator was the best investment of the Democratic Party... Between the pink or gray in Ukraine and these yellow ones, there's no difference, so be sure. For percent and the state will sell, they'll sell everything. Now, when he hired his wife in place again there some girl, etc., manager, then those same Slovenians, who treat Serbs to be primitive, free people, said – well, we'll throw Serbian goods into Mercator, we have some interest. But when one of our companies, any one of them, went to Slovenia and said, "Please give me a location for a similar facility, about the same zone as Mercator." He says, "Well, he can't, that's what we reserved for our company." How can they say they've booked for their company, and no one here in Serbia can say it's reserved for our company? What shame is it to say in Serbia that it is reserved for our company? Those who are ashamed to say so may resign. Let them retire, let them go home, let them get lost. What will be left for our children tomorrow? 70% of Ustashas keep eating. I also hear Draskovic's brother, allegedly in a fight, buying something, spreading here, saying – either Ustasha or Shipar capital. To whom do you sell the country, to whom did you sell the market? And these characters you're proposing, they're going to defend our market and protect competition in this Serbia? Tell that to someone else. That you can go to this U 92. He says Berlusconi wants to buy them, but he wants to check them out first, because he doesn't believe they're all normal. Well, they're going for a systematic checkup. Why don't you G17 plus that you went around that B92, how many there are that aren't working relationships, who pays them, who pays the contributions. Why don't you charge, why don't you close up like another newspaper? No, you can't, boss exists. Master Del Ponte is here, Natasa Kandic is the first to welcome us, Natasa Kandic commands our judiciary, our lives. Who is she, who has voted for her, since she was in power, who has allowed her to be in power? You in power, why don't you banish the ambassador of America? Did you hear what he's saying for two days, directly interferes with the internal affairs of this country. Who authorized him to give valuable criteria who can live, who can exist in this country and who can't? Deprive him of his stay, bring him home. He's exceeded all possible powers. Who runs this country? This government doesn't. Why do you agree to someone twisting your hands? You see what happens to banks whose capital is there, who draws capital from here, who pulls it out. Look at the way our people's brains are washed: you come first and you're done. Well, of course, people make their directors -- you can conclude, aman, that we have the first. And what about the companies tomorrow, how to secure the claim, how will the bank collect its claims if the goods on the side come in, compete with our goods? And what do our people make? So he says, "It cannot fit." So how's he gonna fit in when they come at prices like that? What comes through some customs declaration with some kind of code, but it comes with some other code, that same stuff... Or come, as they say, these cigarettes without any code. Please don't ask us from the Serbian Radical Party. We won't support this. I, Mr. Chairman, have pointed out two major formal disadvantages which are why this proposal must not be on the agenda. You should consult with the President of the Assembly and the authorised proposings, and there are more, so pull this out and agree with what's written in your Rules of Procedure, what you voted on. I'm absolutely sure if I read the Rules of Procedure that you've brought, that you'll misread, that you'll attack me. So you better read, so it doesn't happen, like a few days ago, when Mircic quotes Šutanovac what some Kostic wrote, and he says, "You invent." The only difference is that if Sutanovac had read it, it would have been democratic; if someone else reads it, it's not democratic, and it's the same text. Take this back, get it ready and put it back here, but keep all these remarks in mind, because I don't know who they'd be protecting from or what. It's all been sold here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24603	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we adopted the Competition Protection Act, I warned you that it would not be the Competition Protection Act, but a law on protecting those who pay you fees from those who are not with the "yellow" or a similar membership card and those who do not pay. I warned you then that many things in Serbia are happening just under the patronage and under the hands of those who do not allow competition in this country. After all, if the law was passed and was to be applied, do you find any of the Russian companies that applied and were given the right to buy one of our factories? No, because the Russians don't give a commission. They want to pay the price, they want social programs to be implemented by the end, they want to continue production here, but they don't give a commission. Many of those of you who sit here in the front row, when they come, if they come, and rarely come, are known – from five to ten percent, so we can talk. Besides, I'll talk about it later. Is it the protection of competition that three tycoons buy the entire agricultural land in Vojvodina? Is it the protection of competition that they will now be able to literally dictate and the price of a bite of bread and the price of any agricultural product? Is the protection of competition that the "Yellow Feed" complete soybeans – although genetically modified, but ask the Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Dulic-Markovic why these soybeans are still imported here – imports, turned into feed and sold even to agricultural combinations, is no longer satisfied with the supply of these medium-sized enterprises, which consume this feed. Is the protection of competition that Belgrade Mayor Bogdanovic already has two pumps, for two I know, or he doesn't, has his wife, that pump at the "Limes" and the one on the highway to Nis, as it is already called. The name was to hide the owner's identity. You remember when that pump was built in the middle of the city, under the window of a soliter, what a cry. In the end, it's all lying down, and that pump works great. After all, ask Bogdanovic. Of course, don't ask him where he got that apartment he lied about in the election campaign that he didn't have, and then it turns out he did. I'll tell you, he got it from Kolesar; it's the same Kolesar, I'll tell you about him a little later, which is what Popovac sold, so he took a million and 200,000 euros of tips or commissions, whatever you want. He's got his fingers around Sartide, Shipyards, and a lot of other things. You who said that you had made a derogation in 2003 from that "yellow bulldozer revolution", that you had started – by 2003 we are like this, now we are going to take it all the same way. Was that the cohabitation, where you went off in some pre-election campaign, I think it was a campaign for the president of Serbia? Is this cohabitation? We are at odds with the world, we criticise each other, and under the grains is co-operated? Besides, who's your president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Which party does it belong to? If you have already replaced everything and brought yours, of course, we have criticised it, but the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce remains former Minister Milosavljevic. Is protecting you from competition already known, ask the minister, I know, if he doesn't know, I'll tell you who's going to get a concession on the highway from Horgos to Požega, and at these prices over a billion and 100 million euros to put clean money in his pocket, or not everything, half will give the minister. Is protecting against competition that NIS is fiercely prepared to put on a tray and hand over to Vojan Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic? Ask whose company "Trizon" is, and how much did she owe and who pays the debts of "Trizon" and how? Ask who's importing complete crude oil for NIS? If you don't know, I'll tell you - former Minister Novakovic, his firm. How do you protect competition? Protect Novakovic from competition. Whether it will be a protection from the competition that you will give, Mr. Vukic mentioned three or four companies that will receive the national frequency: In 92, RTL etc; and "Avala", of course, former Minister Vlahovic, and she will get the national frequency. You have already made deals that can be released, which cannot be released, and the citizens of Serbia pay. National frequency is national wealth, and if normally and correctly assessed, if sold normally and correctly and not sold to take a commission, much higher value lies in national frequency than in many other areas. We are now coming to that competition protection: Popovac – sold by the chairman of the Board of Directors Kolesar "Popovac", took a million and 200,000 euros, of course, on behalf of DS and then President Djindjic, but I don't think this one has left us empty-handed. I don't mean you, Mr. Chairman, but the one from that building across from us. He stayed, too, because when the Justice Department started some criminal charges to investigate, to cover it up, criminal charges were pushed in the drawer. Cohabitation. Is the sale of Sartida a protection of competition? How much and who took all the money, commissions? If you don't know, then come in from the back lines, now I'll tell you who took as much. Is the sale of the National Savings Bank and all other banks, or the banking market, a protection of competition or protection from competition? This same, sitting here sometimes, though, when it comes to jeans then sits in the front row, Dinkic, whom you call a minister, sells the 7.5 thousand squares of the highest quality and most exclusive space of former payment services through the Greek National Savings Bank. Now he says the Greeks gave five times as much as the initial price. How much did they give him? They grabbed some suitcases, but no one caught Dinkic's suitcase. The time will come, and his will be caught. We promise, when Serbian radicals come to power, they will get a single room, with a view of the Ministry of Finance, up in Bachvanska. Is protecting the competition when you sold out the market? What Mr Krasic said, some markets, Metro, Mercator and others came to Serbia and took over the market and our production cannot be competitive. This is their springboard for the Russian market, thanks to that contract signed by the non-national regime before 2000, under which our products go with only 1% of the customs administration in Russia. They want to come here so they can get out of here and use those privileges. Besides, the Russians wanted to buy the Cool Bank. What happened to that? They don't seem to give a commission. Many wise decisions have been made by this Serbian government, and this last decision will come true today. Thanks to the wise government and the wise decision of the government today will be the eclipse of the sun, the newspaper said yesterday. Nothing this government, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, the citizens of Serbia, has done well to this country, and it is high time to discuss the elections, to come to some smarter, better, honest and honest, to preserve at least this little left over, than your long fingers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24605	Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used the right of Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the election of members of the Commission's Board for the Protection of Competition from the lists submitted by authorised proposings. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the National Bank of Serbia member, you received a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the National Bank of Serbia, who was submitted by the Finance Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. We don't have a proposing representative. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24606	For this part of the agenda, I only reported to remind you that and when the Law on the National Bank of Serbia was passed in this National Assembly, the Serbian Radical Party said that this is exactly what happened. Just to remind you: when the National Bank of Serbia Council is elected, the Serbian Radical Party has challenged a candidate who does not meet the requirements of being a member of the Council, it does not meet the conditions laid down in the extremely bad Law on the National Bank of Serbia. It was a man who was not an economist, but a mathematician, teaching mathematics and statistics at the Faculty of Economics. It is well known from the time that Vuk Draskovic burned and burned with the city of Belgrade, it is the period of the biggest robberies; however, Bogdanovic competed with this of his Stanojevic; it is he who keeps reporting to the media, presents himself as an economist, but is a mathematician, I think Kovacevic. When he was elected a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council, he was deputy director of the Republic Statistics Office. He had a conflict of interest, he didn't meet the basic condition, he wasn't a graduate economist. Although Labus is not a graduate economist either. What did Vuk Draskovic say – aman, Labus, when you completed the economy when we joined the law school and you graduated from law school? We can do all that. Why? Because there are parcels and this government is so precisely parcelsed, don't touch my atar. What was seized by Wolf and Dan, they pushed it to the end and used these unfortunate people, Sretkovic, Trpkovic and these others, knows how much to bring to Danica, as they did in the city, so they had to divide five million a day from the budget. This is the purpose of dealing with the politics of Vuk Draskovic and Danica Draskovic. Of course, this man has now resigned, and someone else needs to be chosen. A man who formally meets the conditions under the Law on the National Bank of Serbia has been proposed. When it comes to selecting members of the National Bank Council, however, it is prescribed to be a prominent economist, an economics acquaintance and even a macro-economicist. This candidate really meets that condition. It probably doesn't satisfy the narrow conditions that are needed, which is that it's an expert in the field of monetary system. That's the least of the problems, I have to tell you. The basic problem with this council is that we have a bad Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Under the law, the first step to god is the governor, he chooses his vice-savers, he has his monetary advice there, and this National Bank of Serbia Council is a "age company" where compensation is received, and they do nothing from the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia: they neither look at monetary policy nor affect primary emissions, nor influence interventions on the banking market. They are a simple supervisory board, reviewing reports, accepting and not accepting work reports, some final accounts, "age companies" by system -- brothers are divided, divided, parcelled. However, it is not your original thought when you changed the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, someone before you remembered it, but again those from G17 plus. They have devalued the council, we have the prescribed Croatian law, here is the proposal for the election of governors and members of the Council of the National Assembly, it is the Committee for Finance, of course, Bogdanovic is gone, there are experts, experts. However, the council is competent to determine whether the conditions are met to resolve the governor of the NBS. The advice will never come into a situation to determine whether the conditions are met, which is, after all, an additional condition for the motion for resolution to be found before the National Assembly. Twice, I wrote a proposal, or initiative to the Council, to initiate a procedure to resolve Jelasic. For the first time because of the massacre he made with Mladjan Dinkic, and the second time because of the second massacre he did with the insurance companies. I think I wrote another initiative, but for two, I'm sure. Of course, none of that happened. That third was about checks last year. The High-Sense Council does not accept the initiative; and why would they accept the initiative when they have a good fee. That's the sequel to that story I just started. Labus says he pays for it, it's very expensive to get normal people to vote for stupidity, and here big wages are paid for by a lot of nonsense. That's how you feel in this National Bank of Serbia Council. They put a finger on their foreheads and think about the serious monetary problems, allegedly, you're being bullied until they get a monthly fee. This one's a little out of line, there's a lot, and I believe the one who resigned has about 650,000 per month of legal income. There's little more to it than some RTS hit journalist, that veterinarian, then she's Natasa Miljkovic, who's been educated for film performance in Budapest, then what they brought these of their own, where Tijanic goes and leads his own, and the other RTS journalists are 20,000, and these cameramen don't know how to cross 20,000, but their colleagues, it's known, the one for the haircut gives 80,000 a month. That's the same thing. Someone here gave 80,000 to some member of the council to keep him calm, to keep his mouth shut, foreign exchange reserves growing. What are they growing up for, what are they defending themselves for? They defend the claims of people from abroad, companies from abroad. We have a surplus, the economy isn't working, everyone's satisfied, mathematically everything right, everything's true, just something's missing, it can't fit in. Of course, I don't want to talk about Mr. Bones Josephis, and if he's following this transmission, he'll probably understand that all these remarks don't apply to his name or to what he's been doing so far. I simply criticise such a concept, criticising such a way of the National Bank of Serbia Council. You've seen it yourself, everyone's come to terms with this affair, and the Council just shuts up and thinks the governor doesn't have anything to do with it. The governor, as he said - I took a large loan for the house, so he offered, he said, "I want to sell it." So when some said, "We give that much money, he won't sell it, he makes room for the bank where his brother works." But we announced it last year, now it happened, you know. We're not very glad it happened the way we announced. We'd be happy to be denied some time, but you're infallibly following what we're announcing. It means that we know you very well, that we know what your motives are for you to exercise authority – that they end up until the end of the sequences of foreign orders. If Carla del Ponte gets a sneeze or falls off the stairs in Sarajevo and survives, you're able to get a lot more upset than her favorite. Now you've planned everything by April 5th, 6th, can you make some April with it, because it's supposed to be pressing. If not, negotiations stop and so forth. At the previous agenda, you had some experts who allegedly doctored, engaged in the professional economy of the EU. Now let me tell you what they wrote you. Perhaps not just those who were on the agenda earlier, but some who also follow the EU's professional economic policy. At best, if everything goes well, if Carla del Ponte doesn't get a sneeze, we have to wait at least 12 years. I will tell you that we will never be members of the EU, because they do not want to, but in that imagination you send to our citizens it will be much better when the EU comes. It's just like October 5th: everything's going to be fine, just so he's gone; here, 6.5 billion waiting at the border, here we go back to Kosovo, everything's going to be, we're going to solve everything without any problems; we're going to interfere in the judiciary, in the judiciary, in the police, out of the question, for a living head. It all went to its opposite. Follow orders from abroad, and you cheat on citizens that the greatest extent of democracy is to take off their pants. Yes, it is. You interpret your humble move as the ultimate manifestation of democracy, but you have forgotten only one thing: for these few years, the word democracy has become a synonym for losing a job, for paying a scholarship, for inability to treat, for selling a company. She's become a synonym for the worst thing there is in a society. You're just talking - a democratic block. Citizens recognize it's some kind of scary block, where there are so many dark things that they can't measure. I'm going to help you with this presentation and we're working every day here to get more and more naked, to make it clear to everyone what DOS-led democracy means: we don't have an army, we don't have the police, we don't know who's drinking or paying, we don't know anything in this country, there's absolutely nothing in this country. Everything can exist while there's some personal interest in someone. When that personal interest is lost, you too will complain about the state. There's Albianic here earlier, he put out a series of criticisms about the state of education, and I'm asking him -- well, why didn't you tell Junior Dinkic, he says he's got a surplus, you've brought it all down to the problem of money; what now you're convincing us that Junior doesn't give money for education? You sit at Junior's and make a deal. I know that it's complicated for you from G17 to understand monetary policy and the macroeconomic policy of G17+. I know it's hard for you to understand. I know you can't explain it on the stands, on the street, in the neighborhood, in the building, in the house. How do you explain it to someone? You start with expertise and so on, and people send you where you don't belong. I'm going back to this advice. We don't need this kind of advice. Why? Because he is so framed that he is appointing everything Jelasic, and if a little problem arises, Jelasic gives the order for one of the members to be paid, to be calm. I don't want any part of it, and I know that's how it's done. So, the institutions we have, nothing works, and if they did, they'd start working in accordance with the powers that they'd been prescribed, the chaos would be the same. Let me remind you that you have executed a replacement system of values. You said the greatest degree of democracy was to remove the indictments urgently, or order the district attorney to withdraw the charges against the president of those states that bombed us. Why? How to receive Javier Solana, since he became the father of the nation, in your direction. You just forgot one thing: meanwhile, a report by a group of experts hired by the UN tribunal's prosecutor's office, who wrote on page 29 a report on what was happening during the bombing. Just a few things to remind you. They found that NATO's pact carried out strikes by its aviation without a Security Council decision, punishable by international law. Two, that the representatives of the NATO Pact did not want the prosecutor's commission to deliver information, documentation and anything else to determine whether there was any degree of responsibility – punishable. Three, based on a dozen cases of bombing with consequences, were found to be excessive, illegal, forbidden use of weapons against civilians. I'm deliberately speaking to a civilian. Penalty. Fourth, they haven't found the S.R.J.'s fault anywhere. You forgot that. Fifthly, in the final report, they could not recommend the launch of a case against some of the NATO pacts in front of The Hague tribunal, but they have already made a recommendation, and they have found in that recommendation, as they watched those books of yours, Mr Angelkovic, which you have issued, those two white books with the list of victims and with the documentation and so on, and they have particularly humiliated us, because they said that 495 dead and 1,500 wounded are no evidence of war crimes and genocide, but that there is a crime scene called aggression, a crime against peace. However, the UN tribunal is not responsible for this. That's the kind of guy you're dealing with. So you saved them from criminal responsibilities, and they are now unprincipledly prosecuted and you as their servants.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24607	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr. Krassic, you spoke as the first or as the introduction, will you do it again now or not? It's mine to ask. In that case, the word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24608	Mr Krasic spoke here and a little wider than this topic and wondered what was going on in the country of Serbia, and I will be surprised what was going on in this House. I understand why there are no government representatives here today, of course, they are calmly in front of Carla del Ponte, she teaches them how to carry out the impossible mission of catching Ratko Mladic, but I don't know where the president of the Assembly is, where Mr. Obradovic, who chaired until some time ago, and now he's gone, and he's the representative of the proposal for the agenda point we're talking about right now. So, very strange and interesting things happen here. I don't know if it's gonna move this deadline, it can move them as much as it wants, but, thank God, catching Mladic is still an impossible mission. When it comes to this part, the appointment of this candidate, Josephis, to the National Bank Council, when I was talking about the first item of the agenda, I said that Serbian radicals are mostly not talking to me about names, unless we have something very negative for someone you propose; we are not talking, simply because all these proposals and possible appointments are the responsibility of you who are not in the O.R. today, or you who are, and those who are so much more than in the O.R., but in any case, the responsibility of the ruling coalition. So I'm also not going to say anything concrete about this candidate, except to ask myself if, therefore, what Mr. Krasic said, this Mr. Josephis meets the conditions for a member of the National Bank Council. I looked at his biography, I wonder, and I'm not sure if there's any conflict of interest here, given his membership in the National Bank of Vojvodina Council, but the conflict of interest in Serbia is no longer unusual, and unfortunately every day. It seems to me that, instead of acting in accordance with that law, we act quite the opposite and much worse than at a time when we had no law in a particular area. So with the protection of competition, which was mentioned earlier, so was the conflict of interest – the law was passed, some forms were filled, there was a well-paid commission reviewing it and then the information of the conflict of interest of this vice president in Vojvodina, Simic, and then Bojan Pajtic (and this is the one Bojan Pajtic who participated in the Bodrum affair) said he doesn't care about the conflict of interest, he will continue to keep Tihomir Simic. Of course, it's his choice, and we don't care about it, but it's amazing that someone who's in such a high-ranking state office, and by the way, he's a lawyer, and also a law professor in Novi Sad, can go deaf about some law. Similarly, Velja Ilic did her time when he said the Law on Public Procurement was not good, so it should not be applied and that it is not worth five pairs. Indeed, from day to day we learn and hear such things that we reprove whether it is possible, whether someone so consciously destroys everything in this country, not just materially. Today I was saying, what you destroy in a material way we still have a chance to fix and throw up, but this other thing you're doing is really scary. About a month or two ago, my colleague Moma Markovic and I were in Pančevo for a event by our municipal board, which was a promotion of the book Vojislav Seselj – a witness of the defence of Slobodan Milosevic in the Hague process. We got there a lot earlier. We took a little walk around Panchev. We wanted to see what was going on there. Our intention was to have coffee somewhere. But in the center of Pancheva, believe it or not, we've counted 11 banks, all with some foreign names, more or less known in the rest of Serbia, there's nothing, there's some business space, some are renovated, some sand is standing outside, so, just banks are working. It's just amazing. We also said that when it came to the National Bank Act, Krasic said it is a bad law, it is a bad law, but the problem is that it is a very bad governor, which is a very bad finance minister, which is a very bad government of the Republic of Serbia. They're much bigger problems. Then the governor of the National Bank comes out and warns Serbian citizens not to take credit, because, he says, the loans are expensive, will bring us into debt slavery, each one. That is true, and we keep saying that, and when we talked about the National Bank Act, and about some other laws and every time we're on the occasion, but unfortunately, Serbian citizens live very badly, many don't receive salaries, or lose their jobs, and those who receive salaries receive very small salaries, and then maybe they don't think enough or have other exits. Of course, I don't condemn the citizens, they have to take these bank loans, very expensive, and they risk coming into a situation where they can't pay those loans, and the governor very selfishly, so he warns the citizens, but he won't tell this people where he took that advantageous loan to buy that villa, they say it's a non-refundable loan. I don't know why he doesn't explain it to the citizens, because maybe someone else would take such a loan, even pay taxes on buying that villa, even say how much he really paid, and not play like Governor Jelasic playing with Serbia's public. Of course, Krasic said that we have submitted the initiative three times to this committee for the replacement of the governor of the National Bank of Radovan Jelasic and that is true, but it is very interesting that this man, like everyone, or as his party colleagues, can do whatever they want to to this country and that they can't miss the hair on their heads either. It's amazing that even after the affair, Radovan Jelasic doesn't lack hair from his head. The one over there, Simic and Zagradian, we keep reading something, they're gonna let them out of custody, today, tomorrow, in five days, strike hunger, don't strike hunger, I'm not going in at all, because it's a matter of judicial authorities. I don't get involved in this, and I don't want to say whether they're involved or not, but it's quite certain that, if anything else for moral reasons, the governor of the National Bank is involved if the vice governor was caught with a suitcase of money that was to be served as a bribe. Of course, everything in Serbia can work. The price of sitting in the government and the survival of the government is indeed at the request of those who want to support the government, whatever they want to do, they can rob, steal, kill, they can do whatever they want, but it's enough to say that they will support the government and all is forgiven. Of course, our people say they can, but they can't go as far as they want. These days are very current, following the murder of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague, and a speculation in the media whether the SPS will support the government of Vojislav Kostunica and whether it will continue to support it or not. Then we started reading in the media, too, about each other's nuns, which really look like prostitution between Kostunica and Tadic. They offer to cooperate, not to cooperate, to watch each other's backs. It's just amazing. And Mladjan Dinkic spent all of it. The citizens of Serbia, whom they are trying to put to the attention of, what Krasic just said, that they are a democratic option, or parties to the DB, they will sacrifice their party interests only to function, because, my God, the functioning and survival of this government is in direct connection with the survival of Serbia, which, of course, has nothing to do with smartness, because the survival of Serbia cannot be conditioned by the survival of any government, and at least such a bad government as the government of Vojislav Kostunica. What is the essence of this mutual need and prostitution of Kostunica and Tadic with the help of, or implementation of Dinkic, the most widely related example from the Caves. The president of the Municipality of Pećinci is Nikola Pavkovic, he is a member of the DS. He was from Miodrag Kostic, who was director of DS at the time when he bought three sugars for three euros each... So that's when Kostic bought the cave sugar shop for three euros, so he gave this guy Niko Pavkovic a business space. Now the president of the municipality of Nikola Pavkovic opened a "Meridian Bank" in the business area, and now all operations of the Municipality of Pecinci and public enterprises will go through the "Meridian Bank", which is an exposition and ownership, imagine, the president of the municipality. Such conflict of interest, such thieving, such crime, I guess that's not noticeable. Why did I put this together? So the president of the municipality is from the DS. He is protected as a member of the DS by G17 plus, who are eager to wait for the DS in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and yet they are protected from Vojislav Kostunica because it is him to sit in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, so let him support him whoever he wants, and so can Agim Ceku, just let him be in office as Prime Minister. So, ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia, it is high time Vojislav Kostunica and this government realized that their time had run out. Have them say good-bye to Carla del Ponte today. Let them tell her nicely that they can't give her Ratko Mladic, not because they won't, they'd be very happy to, but because, thank God, they're not in a situation. Let them carefully discuss the elections, so let's see after the next elections, let the citizens of Serbia opt out among you the Democrats who brought them to a beggar's stick – and all of you equally Democrats, who gave out, destroyed the economy, participated in thieves' privatisations, destroyed Serbian banks, and brought foreign ones, reduced the real value of pensions, etc. – and the party that really is a party from the people and understands its people and who is ready, yesterday I said it, not only to take over power, but also responsibility for Serbia. You can laugh every time I talk. When I was in Arangelovac three days ago, I was told by the citizens of the Aralite, and you said that the swindlers, no one can stand her alive in Arangelovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24609	I thank the Belief of Radetti, the People's Messenger. The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and to prepare Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're so out of luck with the governors, it's as if we've been hacked by someone, God forbid, like in that commercial. I remember a zero governor, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who, with a sock on his head and with Kalashnikov, flew into the National Bank of Serbia immediately after the "buldozer of the revolution" and by the system "seeing the hand" he took out the National Bank. After that, that lady governor who you're voting for from Bodrum came along, so what Dinkic missed brought her to an end and stayed from the National Bank, not to mention, only walls. There's that gold left that after the sale, and I don't remember which one of the governors finished the job. Mostly, of these pairs of gold sold, gold that has been standing since the Kingdom of Serbia, Serbia has not seen anything. Then Mladjan Dinkic, as a vampire, comes back and destroys four domestic banks, frees the creditors of the money owed to the domestic banks and thus impoverishs Serbia and enables these business entities in charge of Beobans to be sold for free. Of course, for small money, but with a big commission. This is where we got the governor, more specifically, he was a vice governor, who no state would ever want. First, as a vice governor, he was a stranger. Two days before you gave him citizenship, you made him a vice governor. There is no such thing in the world, except in this state of Serbia. It's the same Jelasic who was chairman of the Jugobank Disposal Commission and who bought the Mercedes for $15,000 and the same Jugobanke he liquidated, a months old Mercedes, worth about $120,000. He took a man, when he sold everything and tore the Mercedes apart, and so he didn't go to waste for 15,000 euros. It is the same governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who, according to Mrs Radeta, is raising a 380 thousand-euro grant loan and bought a villa on Dedinj that costs a million euros. He killed her price from a million euros to 380,000 euros. Now I ask Dinkic if he paid taxes on that villa, at least that country to take. It's the same governor that the vice governor serves to carry a suitcase; and by the way, to clear this dilemma, there were no 100,000 euros in the case, but it was a 500 000-euro change when it was returned to the villa. It didn't come to him, cops showed up, didn't understand these financial transactions and seized those 100,000 euros and by the action it was, etc. In states that hold their name, when any official in the People's Bank makes a pig's way of doing these, the governor resigns for moral reasons. Of course, where there are morals then moral reasons exist. And nothing to anyone. And, please, from the ruling set, don't separate the yellow from you, they're yellow in your tissues, in your pores, in every part of the structure of the government, between you and them there's no difference, you're all the same political option, there's no difference. Bulldozer option. One warning for Serbian citizens – you enter first and final; they almost don't say what it is, it's almost a loan, and the mortgage is an apartment. All citizens of Serbia who, under such conditions, will be left without apartments will be thrown into the street. The domestic banks may have been able to tolerate, these won't, these didn't come to raise the standard of citizens, they came to pick up black under their fingernails. And by increasing the country's foreign reserves, that only means that Serbian citizens and the last euro, and the last dollar sell for bread. Nobody works, nobody does anything, only banks work and only the governor works day and night. Of course, getting suitcases. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if by chance I were in the place of this man you proposed, I don't know him, but I don't think he's an honorable man, I wouldn't accept being a counselor to such a thief as Dinkic is, of course, the way Jelasic is and what everyone else is, there's no difference. They only differ by the number of shoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24611	Milos Disic. Mr. Markovic, I didn't want to correct you with these dinars and Euros. No, you said a million dinars, and you meant a million euros, probably. Here you go, Mr. Breather.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24612	Dear People's MPs, what to say after this presentation of Ms. Verica Radeta and Momira Markovic. It's all said here, there's nothing new, there may be something new today, since there's no one here from the Ministry. Mr. Rodoljub Sabic will be mentioned in my presentation, so I'll remind him of some things from that time. (President: What does Shabic have to do with the bank? There is, there is. In my opening discussion, I said there was really nothing to say after Momir Markovic. I'll go a little further. Since he's Mr. Dinkic, and he's the finance minister... Unfortunately, we haven't seen him here in days, nor when his laws and proposals for his laws are on the agenda, nor is he here today, because he should explain to us what it really is and what other financial transactions, or abuses, are going to happen in this country. Yesterday, Mr Dinkic was in Indjija and I have to ask him what was nice about it in Indija when he advertised Indji so well in public information, on the first, second, third channel, Pink, BK and other means of public information, or Radio-Television, which, let's say, was here about national frequencies, which received national frequencies. Let me ask him if he was at lunch prepared by Mr Jesic as his employee somewhere in November, December, who went to control the business, or the budget of the local self-government in India; whether he knows that the ministry worker was also leaving with Mr Jesic for lunch and whether he knows whether the local self-government drove such a worker from Belgrade to India and back. Is he aware that Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, when he was Minister of Local Self-Government, sent a letter in 2003 about some of the blurry actions in India that were happening at that time? I will only remind Mr. Rodoljub Šabić, since he is here, that it is just some temporary contracts, some temporary business in the Indji municipality of that time. If he didn't have any material and evidence, he should have come to me, because I asked him for this speaker to have the Ministry of Finance run budget control in the Indji municipality. They didn't find it appropriate for me to deliver those materials to them. But I just want to remind him that UBPOK has admitted to a public prosecutor in India that he has found six million embezzlements, for the construction of a cultural centre, which has been transferred through an Indian company to buy an apartment in Novi Sad, whether Mr. Jesic or his brother. And his brother is well-known, at least Veli Ilic, from Apollo or Most, as she was in Novi Sad, I don't know exactly. Ask Mr. Velya Ilic. Here's a suggestion that's Apollo. Well, Mr. Minister knows exactly, I think Velija Ilic knows exactly who it's about. So he had a lot to learn about India. I'll keep going in line, I hope there's so much time left, that I've got these hours and 37 minutes left so I can carry out everything I need. Let me ask Mr. Dinkic if he is aware that local self-government has lost, i.e. a water and sewerage from Indjia is one slow 74 million dinars where the Belgrade Road Engineering received 74 million in the dispute, and that the next dispute it will win, means this crucial executive dispute, around 110 million, all thanks to the local self-government from India. When it's so nice and good in India, let me show you here what the Chamber of Commerce brought to Srema's Chamber of Commerce in February this year, in 2006, where the data were clearly presented and it says that the Indjia municipality has the most unemployed population in India. Imagine, of the 49,500 inhabitants of the 8,615 unemployed; as far as Srema is concerned, this is the largest number of unemployed people compared to the population. Furthermore, if it is so nice in Indjia, that it flourishes in Indjia and that there is honey and milk, let me remind you that in the Republic of Serbia there is national income per capita of 1631.2 euros, for Vojvodina it is 1818.8 euros, and for the Sremski District it is 1153.8 euros. Indija is here in the last place with 983,3 euros and all the municipalities in Srem are above it. So that's how we're going to take, here, Irig, we know what it means, the Caves, these are the most underdeveloped municipalities in Sreme: with 1198 euros is Irig, the Caves are 1219. If we praise India as an example, is it a test balloon that the West wants to perform in India, why is it so drastic in the last place, or by the number of unemployed in the first place? If it's so nice and nice and it's working so well, there's investment and investment in the Indji municipality, why isn't there at least a national income and that wages are higher? There's nothing but thieving, believe me, just thieving, and that's what you from the ministry should know. The Indjia municipality will run out of Public Enterprise "Vovod and sewerage" all thanks to local self-government. Let me ask you, is the municipality just a strict city center or is the village and the surrounding area? So let them go to the villages for a while, and ask outside of the center how they live in India, and what they have received. They didn't get anything, believe me. Here is only a beautiful story, we still live, with television shows from the first and second channels and journals, as you used to criticise, at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. I'm at that time, and now I have a firm, an extremely good job, and now I'm doing nothing, I have no one to sell to. Don't use lies like this anymore, not true. Ask the citizens of India if there are any newer companies in India, if these companies are doing and what about companies that existed in India, and they were developmentists. Imagine the leather industry in India, which was a concept and example in the old Yugoslavia, which worked parachutes for the American army, and now it doesn't exist. Imagine the other companies that were exporting; "Having furniture" now has no foundation and no idea who took it all away. There's a lot to say. Unfortunately, there isn't a representative of the government here today to answer my questions. I understand why you're protecting Mr. Jesic. Protect him and the West, and Soros and all NGOs, precisely because Indjia should be weary and through Goran Jesic must do what needs to be done. And the previous government, by 2003, had to do the same on the orders of the West. It is not surprising to me, but it is surprising to the people of India who do not know the situation, which is why Mr Jesic is being protected and what is the reason to tell lies about Indjia. You should be the one in power to explain. Why is there no investment in the Inji municipality? Lies are broken daily, and nothing is done in India or what is happening. I'll tell you why there's no investment in India. Local self-government, Mr. President of the municipality who went to negotiations to bring a company to India, and there was saying that the spa would be made, so "Merkator", is now still the theme "Merkator" in the Indji municipality, so "Gorenje" -- people didn't want to come. For what reason? The gentlemen of the local government of India first provide commissions for themselves, and then go to work and build for India, and the normal world doesn't want that kind of negotiation. They want extremely capable, honest and honest people, and that will not happen in India until the Serbian radicals come to power. There's a lot to say. I'll save something and hand over some materials when Mr. Dinkic is here. Perhaps Mr Albianic has an answer to whether Mr Dinkic was at lunch yesterday, because "the lamb brigades" continue to solve problems in Serbia, and I hope they have solved these problems in India as well. I'll save something when Mr. Dinkic's here, so let me ask him. Now that Mr. Rodoljub Shabic is here, he could say whether I was right or wrong, whether his memos were coming to India. I can give you one such document where Mr. Shabic's signature is. For a wonderful miracle, no one answered. They knew the ministries, and the government and everyone knows, and nobody answers. In this country, everyone can do whatever they want. Whether it's legal or not, it's none of your business. Those who should stop it don't care much about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24613	I thank Mr. Disic for his contribution to the election of members of the National Bank Council. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Deputy PRIOR FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN PUBLICATION You have received a proposal for a selection of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information. You've received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes 24 seconds, for European Serbia – six minutes and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs, three independent MPs, five minutes per an independent MP. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single inquiry into the proposal to elect the Deputy Commissioner for Information of public importance. Does Proposer Rodoljub Sabic, a public figure information trustee, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24614	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I won't waste much of your time. The proposal to elect a deputy trustee is in front of you, we delivered it six months ago. In addition, there is also a biography. I'm not going to repeat the elements in my biography. I'd just like to underline the criteria I've been handling in formulating. So, given that we're just making one new state institution, I thought that a man who should be on that second most important function in the new state body should meet three criteria and I hope you'll share my opinion on these three criteria. I thought it was supposed to be a man with certified organizational and management skills. Secondly, I thought it was meant to be a man who should be a good knower of administrative law, especially administrative procedure. Third, I thought it was okay for the other half to be in relation to the trustee. So, the person I suggested to you is Mrs. Stanojla Mandic, who is currently in charge of the Secretary of the Service of the Trustees. When we talk about her quality as a manager, she was twice the secretary of the ministry. For me, the most important thing in defining the proposal was the secretary of the ministry, which, under the circumstances, I had to make, so the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Then she convinced me of the excellent abilities of the manager and the organizer. As regards the second criterion, she personally participated in the work of several very complex administrative subjects. She was also involved in several serious projects in the field of administrative law. Finally, she was a member and president of the Commission for the national examination, in particular for the field of administrative law. Third, she's a lady. What she is, I said. Maybe it's time for me to mention what isn't. So Mrs Stanojla Mandic is not a member of any political party. I think the criteria that I have cited and the fact that these criteria confirm enough for the National Assembly to support this proposal, and I ask you in that sense to support it, in accordance with the parent committee's report, because I believe that this will contribute to a better application of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-29-0.u24615	Does one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a unique search, does the promoter want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal to elect Deputy Commissioner for Information of public importance in the voting day. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda on the basis of Article 85(3), honourable Members of the People's Parliament have held a debate on all points of the agenda. I hereby set my rules of procedure on 3 April 2006, at 10.00 p.m., as a day for voting on all the items of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006.
