ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28211	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. (People's MP, Milorad Albianic, from the post, according to the Rules of Procedure? ) Just a moment to complete the report on the absence of MPs, so I'll give you my word. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Blagica Kostic and Dusan Prorokovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure for the dignity of this house. We have adopted one decision here in the Serbian Parliament, which, among other things, obliges the National Assembly, as one of the competent state authorities, to make certain acts, and what the Administrative Committee has done in part, so we have also obliged the Secretary of the Assembly and other assembly services to do certain things. Accordingly, I would like to ask the President of the Assembly to have a comprehensive notification of what is happening in that direction. That means, what happens to the former parliament building of the state community, when we have a formal session in that building. What's going on with the professional services in that building? What happens to jurisdiction and who is, and to what extent, taking over certain responsibilities when it comes to security and other professional services he has? Has the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia taken over all the powers in that building? So, we want one notice that can be sent, can be made here among the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and can also be given at a session of the Administrative Committee in the form of a report – what has been done so far in this direction. We believe that certain activities exist and a period of time is flowing unsustainable and we know that certain delegations have been transferred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we will be in the Parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, etc. We will also have a whole series of other activities, but it would be good to have one complete notice of this assembly home, and to know what our powers are and whether we have taken over in the right way everything regarding the former parliament of the state union, and now it is the building of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28213	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly, MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28214	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Albianic, by Article 225, I assume you wanted to receive information that was important to your work. In contrast, part of the notice you said yourself, and that is, that the Assembly, the highest level of government in Serbia, the Serbian Parliament has made a decision that obliges all state authorities, including itself and accordingly, is the process. It certainly cannot be answered at all, but it is a fact that MPs are often confused by the inaccuracies that appear in the papers, because there is a difference between jurisdiction, objects, and that is what Mr Balinovac wrote in the Regulation, because the government cannot determine the Assembly, but can also what is the property of the state to nostrify. In Article 5, all items of the assembly of the state union are taken over by the Serbian Assembly, in accordance with the Serbian Parliament's decision, and the government is more clearly resolving the issues of other services that are at its level from different institutions, statistical data from ministries, etc. That means it's possible for the list committees to determine the cases. I must tell you that the competent ministry and the Serbian Parliament have been working this list for a week. It's a list of different objects. In relation to jurisdiction, the Serbian Parliament took them over and (you mentioned it yourself), while the Serbian Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, further does not regulate some obligations to exercise its responsibilities, where committees will assist, so the Administrative Committee, which has made this decision right, will assist Mr Palalic from the Committee on Justice, and here is from Legislative, Mr Aligrudic, there are the presidents of the Committee on European Integration and Foreign Policy. It will have to be foreseen a business way, for example, in which ambassadors present their programme to competent committees depending on the country they are going to. A whole series of such responsibilities will be settled in a business manner and professional services are now preparing for any changes to be made in a precisely defined business way to achieve these responsibilities. As you know, life goes on. In the meantime, we are acting in accordance with international obligations, statutes and rules of procedure of international organisations, so where the president of the Assembly appoints something by international obligations, we and the corresponding good custom here; first, I have held consultations with the heads of parliament groups, and only then are those necessary where Serbia has already taken over and should defend its interests, such as the upcoming parliamentary sessions of the Council of Europe and the OSCE. The delegation already travels on Sunday, and I authorised Mr Aligrudic, as head of the delegation, to lead the delegation. Then Miss Grubesic will lead the OSCE delegation. That's all in the next days. The topics that will be on the agenda concern this congregation. There's something third that you've asked, and what's confusing, which is buildings, immovable property, that's what you've been asking. Those who have long been following what is happening know, including the Serbian government, the secretary of legislation knew that the issue of immovable property had already been disputed once, and was resolved in 1995. In contrast, the property belongs, it is available to the Serbian government, and the Serbian government will now take over the Serbian Parliament, through the competent commissions and make the building available. In contrast, the first professional service tomorrow at 10.00 with the former department heads will determine by the secretaries and employees here that part of the jurisdiction, that something should not be alienated, if you are concerned, but I don't believe there is any reason to worry about you, because in comparison, there will be a plan that will be adopted by the Assembly here on the board of directors on the necessary staff. All those people who are employed there were taken care of by August 1st because they were taken over by the Ministry of State and local self-government, and they were taken over on the payroll, and depending on the needs of the Assembly, some of them will be here. I ask you, you have to understand, I did not give an order to security to act in the way it is handled here, and (when someone stops the mandate, I am talking about former MPs now) that only someone who is employed can ask for a phone or for regents to issue a pass to enter, but is still allowed and still enter, if that confuses you, former MPs. It's not big phone bills, there's no reason to worry. In any case, tomorrow at 10.00 hours it will be taken over, but certainly the MPs of this assembly, either through the board as you asked, or otherwise, will be informed, and we will certainly organize the work, because as you know, this building has three times less offices than this building, and in this building, you all know it from within, and you have seen it from the report of the European Commission, space and personnel to be able to monitor this intensive work of the Assembly. This is the most detailed answer I can give you right now, and in relation to the whole process, you'll all be able to get to know each other in time in the next ten days.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28215	We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PROGRAMMES OF THE PROFESSORS AND OTHER SURVEILLANCES (specificities) You have received a report from the Education Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Radio-Option (Statistics) You have received the Government's opinion on the draft law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in detail whether proposal representative Milos Aligrudic wants the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Payments of Civil Servants and PUBLICS AND REFERENTS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Penezić, Natasa Jovanovic, Milan Vjevinović, Predrag Marković, Ljiljana Nestorović, Momir Marković, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Vučić, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Hranislav Perić, Nemanja Sarović, Milovanovic, Bozidar Koprivica, Petar Jojić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Radisa Ilic, Vojislav Milajić, Milan Stevović and Miljko Cevović. You have received a report from the Administrative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28216	Ladies and gentlemen, in ordinary everyday life, I have no intention, nor is it the custom for people who have brought the style of speech from home to correct, out of pure decency, but in institutions where it is right, to take care of the correctness of expression, especially in this high house. I've noticed several times that those who write these laws may be a failure, and perhaps out of ignorance, they make big mistakes. I didn't react to them. Some of them I did. Last night I came into an awkward situation precisely because of the so-called confrontation I mentioned, and that's the agreement of words in a sentence by number, gender and fall, and I came to a confusion, so I came into an awkward situation myself without correcting your text, because there would be a special amendment. This time, I am surprised that you did not accept this amendment to what is purely against the norm, or practice of the Serbian language. It's a build-up of the same words and there's nothing controversial about it. This is a purely technical question. I'll read it, you've got it in front of you. "The beginning of salary rights and the termination of salary rights." The words "paying rights" are being thrown out, and the title would be "Start and termination of salary rights". I don't see anything wrong with that. It's more verbally correct to "beginning and giving up the right to pay". Imagine if a man in his ordinary life said: "You answer me, and when you answer me, I will answer you, and as soon as I answer you, answer me." Unnecessarily stockpiling, it would be bordering on pleonasm. You didn't accept the amendment, now I'm telling you that you have a chance to accept, to throw out these words in order to make the language more clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28217	The word is Zoran Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28218	First, there is something called the principle of language economy and there is something called the principle of precision in expression in laws. We wanted to be perfectly precise here and remove all the dilemmas, so we repeated our salary rights twice, so the beginning of the salary rights and the termination of the salary rights. What worries about what is said in a small aesthetic speech that preceded it is that Ambassador Penezic actually misreads the amendment. Namely, the title above article 3 reads: "The beginning of salary rights and the termination of salary rights", and he says that the title above article 3 is deleted from the words "the right to pay" and, therefore, both times the words "the right to pay" are deleted. Then, if we had adopted the amendment, we would have received the beginning and termination of rights, i.e. the beginning and termination and nothing more. You wouldn't know what it was about. Please, if you're already willing to deal with aesthetics, which, of course, I support, then, please, you're also dealing with precision. You cannot say that the words "paying rights" are deleted, and they are used twice in the name of the same member. That means you're erasing both times and you're getting a start and a stop. That's why your amendment hasn't been adopted. I agree with your aesthetic remarks, but unfortunately, the amendment is imprecise. He would mean that over Article 3 we would have the title "beginning" and "ending" – what? And, by the way, I personally don't think that this formulation that is there, contained in the law, is bad, so before it's a law that is first adopted in Serbia and in which precision is needed, even at times at the cost of repeating, that the law would be clearer, because I say we didn't have such a law in Serbia before and we owe it to those who need to apply it as much as possible and as accurately as possible, and even at the cost of repeating it. This is the position of legislative policy. But here I am again talking about your amendment. The acceptance of your amendment would mean that the title above article 3 is "beginning" and "ending". So, your amendment was misspelled and that's one of the reasons why it wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28219	Replica, MP Penezic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28220	There may have been some confusion in writing this amendment, but in my explanation, that's why I came out to explain it, I'm sorry, to explain it, it's not like this. The first words are deleted – the pay rights and I have clearly and decidently said that the title should read – "the beginning and the termination of the salary right", which means that I have the right to refer you to what I think is more correct. So he's entitled to pay, he doesn't delete himself twice. I gave it in an explanation. So, first, "right on pay" -- it's deleted and the second is left. So, the beginning and termination of salary rights I think is more linguistically correct than – the beginning of salary rights and the termination of salary rights. So if I told you orally from here, let's ignore this one, so maybe you didn't accept it, you had that argument, but now you have the arguments to accept it. So, to remain one right on the salary, and this first to be deleted so as not to build up the words of the same meaning, that is, the same word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28221	Mr. Balinovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28222	Mr. Penezic, the amendments are submitted in writing. What I received at the moment when I pleaded on this amendment is a text in which it is written to be said – pay rights are deleted, so in both cases. What you thought I really don't know, I know about what's written. So, I have a suggestion. If you feel that you did not make a good statement in writing, expressed the essence of what you were about to say, then submit an amendment and let's talk about it. So one thing is what you think you meant to say, and the other is what you said objectively about this text. It binds me to what you objectively said in writing, it doesn't oblige when we decide on, amendments, what you're thinking right now. If you want to continue the story of this amendment, then it would be necessary to correct the amendment in writing, so that it is clear what it refers to. Only that and then, of course, I'm willing to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28223	MP Penezic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28224	As for the amendment, I apologize for wasting my time with my fellow Members, I thought this would go quickly. As far as the amendment is concerned, he's, I mean, quite clear, and I thought I had people in front of me who think logically. Of course, I certainly didn't write an amendment to keep the "beginning" and the "paying rights" and that's how it comes out. It doesn't make sense. So, if someone thinks logically, he'll realize that I am, that the amendment is good and that one of these is deleted first – on salary, termination, or "paying rights". You can't erase them both. If they're both wiped out, then it's all offensive and it doesn't make any sense. I, Mr. Balinovac, think that you are, I appreciate your intelligence, that you have understood what I said and that we do not need to compromise. That the amendment is good, that we don't need to correct it, that you accept it and that we move on. So, you delete this first "paying rights" and it's only left -- "the beginning and the end of salary rights". I think that's the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28225	The Director of the Republic Secretariat for the Legislatives Mr. Balinovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28226	We have one quite objective formulation that says – words, no matter how many times they have been used in the text are deleted. Words: salary rights are deleted. Therefore, I have concluded that you want to delete both words – pay rights. If you won't, please correct the amendment and then we'll solve the problem, but don't tell others that they don't know how to reason and think logically. There are some rules. When you write the amendment, when you write the law and when you say – the words – Zoran Balinovac, for example, are deleted, that means that all the words used – Zoran Balinovac, are deleted. You know, if you don't personally tie him to some previous word. So let's not talk about the technical rules and rules of writing amendments now. I simply ask you to decide, or correct the amendment or not to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28227	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28228	Yeah, by amendment, I don't just know where this logicist goes, I guess he wouldn't answer what I'm about to say. You know, when you have a bill on the salaries of civil servants and tenants this bad, like the one offered by the Government of Serbia, then, of course, you're expected to have such a ridiculous explanation of the government's representatives, in this case, Mr. Zoran Balinovec, and I don't know why you let him, why else you let the representatives of the government give lectures to the MPs, that he can say here that he's worried about why, and how this MP misrepresents the amendment, and when the MP tells him that he doesn't know logically that he's thinking, then he's replicating, because, God, his Majesty Zoran Balinovac is offended. Or, as he can tell the People's Messenger that an MP can deal with aesthetics and that it's his business, but this is, is it, the passing of the law. Indeed, many are allowing themselves these representatives of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, although I do not know, you have allowed these rules of procedure for everyone to appear as a representative of the government. At some normal times there were ministers sitting here, so whatever they are, and now here we have, and the director of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, and then we have his associates, so I expect one day the couriers from the government come to us here to bring in the documents and sign up what we MPs might say as an objection to some law. It is also a poor interpretation of the government's representative that this amendment is not accurate. The amendment is completely accurate, and his thing is that he doesn't understand it, and we're really not here with the task of helping government representatives in this way. We want the representatives of the government to be helped by our amendments, that is, we are trying to do our amendments in the best way what the government is proposing, although they are in the largest number of cases, which is the case with this law, the Government's proposals are so bad, that no amendment to any member can bring them into line. First of all, they are unconstitutional, as is this law, so they are as inapplicable as this law is, but of course we will talk about it when the amendments are in order, or members of amendments that show exactly what I just said. It is also unacceptable for a representative of the government to warn the MP here, ironically, that amendments are submitted in writing and that he is teaching the MP whether or not he can possibly change his amendment, etc. Mr. Balinovac, you, if you are an adviser to Vojislav Kostunica, advise him, but the MPs of the SRS are not required. We have the SRS programme, SRS attitudes, we have solutions for all problems in Serbia that have accumulated especially in the last six years and we talk about it daily, and we will talk about it in a recent election campaign, and that will make Serbian citizens understand in the right way. We don't expect that from you. You said we were obliged to be precise, so you said Mr. Balinovac, even at the cost of repeating because of those who would apply the law. You really insult all fellow lawyers, in this sentence, who will apply this law, and we are again on the other hand when Mr. Penezic submitted this amendment, believe that you will know this when we say that the words "rightly paid" are deleted, and we do not have an opinion of you like this, as you do about the other colleagues of the lawyers who will apply this law. So, you said that in writing, in the written opinion of the Government, the amendment does not accept, the purpose of the title above the members in the bill is to make the instructions on the content of the members and thus make the text more transparent, since the title above Article 3. The bill reads: "The beginning of the right to pay and the termination of the right to pay". By erasing the word "paying rights" the title would lose its meaning and purpose. We, the representatives of the government, not to you personally, have been telling you from the beginning that these are different titles, supranationals, etc. above the members of the law completely unnecessary, and even if this title were not standing above the members at all, nothing would essentially change. We think it's simply unnecessary accumulation. Every member has a title. Indeed, it's as if the morons are applying the law. It's in the article of how some matter is regulated. Of course, it's your concept, and I know that you're going to say that you think it's better, we think it's not better, it's your right, this is our right, and I'm just asking you because I see, which is true, I see that you're ready today all day to break up with the MPs, which is also fine, but I'm asking you for a future no misunderstanding: you're talking about the amendment, about your proposal, refrain from holding lectures to the MPs. I'll tell you at all that the law, besides being very bad, is essentially, (what we're going to talk about through the amendments), is not written at all in the spirit of the Serbian language. It is not normable in the spirit of our legal system, and you know it well, as you know that after this law we will talk about a law that provides for our ID cards to be written in English. We have some laws in which the Croatian new speech is and how it is represented. Now we have yours with the pleonasms. So it's a matter of your looking at writing regulations, and of course on the other side of the SRS position which is completely different and it's only normal. Otherwise, how do you treat civil servants in this law? Very bad when it comes to salaries, especially civil servants with finished mid-level expertise, as you call them here, so-called technical staff. And now they're in a very bad position compared to the other employees, and under this law they'll have nine times the highest salary of the state's authorities, which is really amazing, but that's why you and this previous regime, all of you in the last six years who have ruled in Serbia, are willing to file against the former ministers and support criminal charges, because employees have been paying off the incentives, of course, absolutely in accordance with the regulations that were, by the way, much more realistic and much fairer than this, which you are proposing to us today. It would be much better for civil servants and would certainly be nicer to pay, when Mr. Balinovac of your colleagues from the government, since I see you here as a representative of the government if the state money were not spent in local campaigns, if Velja Ilic and Mladjan Dinkic were not to lead candidates by Ražnje as the bear of Bozan, so we show them – this is what you vote for, this is a candidate with no name and no last name. They only remember the number. They say – vote for this number, then point your finger at someone. I'm not going to ask you that, but when they're here, it's going to be my parliamentary question, to see how much money they spent on false promises to citizens in municipalities where emergency elections were called.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28229	Director of the Republic Secretariat of Legislatives, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28230	We don't know what God's bear relationship is with this amendment, but I do know that I have understood the amendment as it was only possible to understand it. I didn't teach anyone here, so I'd ask Mrs. Radett not to reason with me, and I don't have any claim to reason with her at all. My proposal refers to how to find a way to translate a constructive and beautiful amendment of Mr Penezic into a parliamentary form and accept it. That was the whole point. If it's so hard to admit a mistake, so should the bear divine be called for a mistake, then what can I do?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28231	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28232	The amendment to Article 4 was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, also due to the precision of the text of the law. In Article 4 of the Government's proposal, we have again above the member, the title of which is payouts. We didn't change the way we intervened, but here's the need to say it's completely unnecessary, that there's a salary payment above the member, so then I guess there's still a bill like this to show that it's payout, and below that it says, public officials and tenants have the right to monthly salary. The salary is paid in the current month for the previous month. Natasa Jovanovic's amendment intervened to delete this word "monthly" and then to remain – civil servants and deputies have the right to pay, because saying "right on monthly salary" now if we freely interpret this text of yours and this word within this first position of Article 4 of the Law, then it can logically be concluded that if someone works for 15 or 20 days, then his working relationship will stop that 15 or 20 days or 25, 29 that he will be unpaid, because his law says he has the right exclusively on monthly salary. This is an entirely unnecessary word, a formulation, to get the impression that this is some high-minded member. Imagine, the law says that employees have the right to pay, and that's the monthly salary. It really took a lot of work and effort to come to such a smart finding. The government says it does not accept the amendment to Natasha Jovanovic, and that is because the right to monthly salary provided for in Article 4. The bill means that the salary, determined by law, is calculated and paid for the calendar month. As part of the basic provisions of the bill, the provision is principled and does not affect the exercise of the right to pay of civil servants and deputies who establish a working relationship during the month, or their working relationship ceases before the end of the month. Article 3 The bill is clear: "State officials and tenants are entitled to pay from the day they enter into work", and that right ceases "from the day they stop working". This explanation that we have received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia is merely a confirmation that the amendment of counterpart Natasha Jovanovic was to be adopted and that it is really meaningful, that it technically regulates the law, which is our intention in this part, but we also have those essential amendments, I think it is the amendment of Mr. Vukic, which concerns the highest and lowest salaries of civil servants. I say, these amendments, and the previous ones, and the one on Article 7, are really amendments that should be accepted that the law should have one legal form, in the spirit of the Serbian legal system, in the spirit of the Serbian language. We're not essentially intruding you with this amendment to the concept of your law. According to what you said earlier, that you wanted a very precise law, that you would be clear to those who apply it, then why don't you accept this, that it would be really clear, that we would tell the civil servants that they will receive the salary and if their working relationship ends during the month or if they start working relationship during the month. So not only if they work all month, as written in Article 4(1). It's a bill of law. So, once again, an invitation to accept this amendment, to at least look like a law to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28233	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Vjerica Radet. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28234	I'll even accept Mr. Balinov's suggestion to supplement this proportion to all of those, that there is no possibility of self-will or any arbitration behaviour within the relations of three to one, but I think this relationship is a rescue for civil servants and tenants, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia says, and you could see that here in the National Assembly. It's not about, for the sake of the public, what I mean is, people who work in the state administration, people who do hard work every day, and these girls who keep stenographic notes, those who have to clean up this building and who have to do whatever it takes to be trained for the reception and work of the MPs. These people cannot accept that this relationship is so dramaticly large, as foreseen by this law, and demand much more respect for the principles of justice and justice and some rational relationship of the state. Guys, you can't have a relationship nine to one. We're not even for the equalizer, we're not for socialism, but let's cut those differences down a little bit, make it three to one, so everyone will be happy, and whoever gets one, because he knows that whoever has a higher position, who worked more or better, has only three times as much income. If you tell him there's nine times more income, then I think there's going to be a lot of trouble and he's not going to be able to function in the state administration. I know from experience what vanity is and what problems are. Not to mention that we're facing the fact that people in the state administration are really having a lot of trouble, how and how to survive. At a time when we were part of the state administration and in this way we controlled and saw how people work and how they work, and you remember that period, Mr. Balinovac, so people have a salary of seven, eight thousand dinars and they can't live on it and what to do -- let's give him bonuses a thousand, two thousand dinars a month or so, so that they can provide something to their children or anyone else. The situation isn't much better today. I don't want to have fatalistic access, so I'm saying it's getting worse, it's getting worse, I don't know what it is, but ask these kids here, ask all these people who want to make progress, who want to do it. Of course, we differed in how they were allowed or provided with progress in this way, but the difference in incomes, by which one will have tens of thousands, and the other will have ninety thousand, I can't understand it, neither can any of them understand it, nor can the difference in the quality of work, the difference in engagement, the difference in technical preparation and everything else be so. It's something that's totally unacceptable. Let's cut these differences so that the lowest base is significantly higher and that people can survive their work and that they can feed their families. You know, we don't have any personal interest here, none of us. We're only telling you this because it's the interest of all the employees here, but absolutely everyone. Everyone will tell you that. There is no one who will tell you that there is any other interest or desire. They are most interested in this amendment. I am prepared to see that you, through a session of the Committee, are, in any way, pulling through and some kind of technical supplement, if necessary, in order to avoid the will of anyone and in this relationship between one and three, if necessary, because I think it is important for people who work in the state administration, in order to accept that amendment much and fundamentally change, and that it would be incomparably better for a large number of people, for a large number of citizens who have to support their children and their families and work in the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28235	The Director of the Republic Secretariat of Legislatives, Mr. Balinovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28236	I just have to say what this is about. The law on civil servants and the accompanying sublaws set out the jobs in the state administration. In that context, we have so-called. Executive posts eight and we have five positions. The largest official position is the position – the director of a special organisation. The lowest executive post is the post of junior referent. In order to work on the position of a junior referent, you need to have a high school prep and six months of work experience. To get into the first group of positions, you need to go through a competition, a competition commission, you need to have at least nine years of employment and you have a much greater responsibility. There are different titles, different positions of reference also with secondary school, a younger associate and associate with a senior school, a younger advisor, a consultant, an independent advisor and a senior advisor with a high school and a group of positions of five. These are practically those who manage the body sectors, which are secretaries of the ministry, operate special organisations, etc. Progresses that are within executive jobs can be made within the same pay group, such as units and twos that appear, reduce that difference. In other words, I'd like to say, while the younger reference officer you were talking about is 1:9, he can make progress to the referent, so if he finishes high school and to a younger counselor, until he who's in position can't progress. So the possibility of increasing the salary of the one in position is impossible, there is no such possibility. On the other hand, those you said were the lowest wages, there are different mechanisms for increasing wages through progress depending on the results of work. So you take that 1:9 as a principle procedure. But it is significantly corrected by the system of progress, because I say, those who have nine times the pay, can't progress, they're convicted on such pay. The second thing, those who have the highest salary, do not have the right to pay overtime, have no right to any salary allowances, except for allowances based on past work. So, the ones with the highest salary practically don't have any accessories. These others have all the other accessories. The highest salary they have in their executive position is not entitled to allowances simply because the manager is obliged to work, if necessary, for his country day and night, because he has a higher salary because the state has placed him in a responsible place. Therefore, the system of additions and the system of advancement, as well as the tenants, which we will talk about later, the system so-called. prize bonuses, significantly reduce this difference, make it different and more flexible and simply encourage the mobility of the state administration. Of course, the amendment itself is problematic, simply because it has not taken care of the positions, the titles, or anything, it has set the ratio 1:3 and it is simply impossible to implement this amendment in practice all and when the legal-political procedures on which it is based would be correct. This would mean that the manager, according to his opinion, is able to make an independent advisor pay more than he who manages the authorities, etc. So we'd come up with absurd situations that suggest, perhaps, at the speed of the amendment, but that's why he's unacceptable among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28237	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come forward under this amendment and I fully support this amendment by Mr. Vukic. I think Balinovac has mixed up some math here, so he needed Mickey Albianic to call for help, because that's his profession. One to nine, says the one who's nine, he's damaged, he can't grow any more. He's got the highest salary, and he's the poor one. I don't understand. I ask one question here, that Mr. Balinovac says, according to his mathematics – what is the salary when the minimum wage is calculated, and it can't be less than 15,000 times nine, turns out that one of the employees will have 150,000 salaries. I guess that report says the Prime Minister doesn't have 150,000 salaries either. Next, he says: good, minimum wage. The minimum wage is 15,000-16, what does a worker buy with that? In the morning when the kid goes to school, he asks - Dad, what are you doing, why didn't you finish school, but he says – give me 100 dinars that I have for breakfast at school and with friends to eat one ice cream. So there's going to be a lot of trouble with this, and I don't think this is arranged the best way, and I don't accept the Balinovec explanation, what he was saying, it's a bit of a distraction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28239	The Director of the Republic Secretariat of Legislatives, Mr. Balinovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28240	I just wanted to say that I am extremely sorry and extremely difficult that Hranislav Peric did not accept my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28241	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28242	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to Articles 7, 9 and 10 did not go out to comment because they are in the same sense as the amendments to Articles 3, 4 and 7. For Article 7, we asked to delete this title above the member, as the basic salary is determined, because we think it's really funny that above the member of the law stands the title of determining the salary, I guess it should be contained in the article itself, in the text of that law. We have also changed the word "time" in Article 9 because it is written here – the coefficients for the position of executive jobs are determined by each position... and we argue that the grammatically correct "so" and for this reason we have submitted the amendment, as well as this amendment to Article 10(2), which states that the paying group (and this is related to the amendment of Zoran Krasic, so I will read) which places the position in the services of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court and the departments of the body whose members are elected by the National Assembly, determines their acts, and sets out the general rules for the classification of posts. This is where the point should be put, and the government's proposal stands – and seeks to be equally valued as a similar position in ministries, services, governments and courts. Which means, tell the law that something weighs. I guess the law must make it clear that something is or isn't. I really need to read the government's argument on this Momir Markovic amendment where the word "time" should have been replaced with "so" because it's really only right. Listen to how the Government explains to the MPs - the amendment is not accepted, "time" is a substitute, "it" in an instrument, a fall which, like other falls, besides its structural value has semantic values, instrumented a polyvalent decline, and its polyvalentity is expressed not only as a polyfunctionality, i.e. use of more functions than as polysemia, i.e. multiple meanings. Its useful values without a proposal are the reductive supplement marking the predicative, the meaning of the means, the meaning of the way, the meaning of the place, the meaning of the time, the meaning of the measure and the meaning of the agent. Therefore, the noun is of the continuity meaning that we have used – so, in addition to other values of the meaning of the asset and the meaning of the time, there is also the value of the adverba for the way it has the "so" contribution, so there is no need to replace it with that contribution. Imagine how the Government explains why it does not accept this amendment. Mr Balinovac, I'm telling you, and I'm saying that since students who finished eighth grade today pass a Serbian language exam, if by chance they wrote the coefficients for the positions of executive jobs are determined by each position, and only to say that it's common to say what instead, then there would really be no chance of taking that test. I'm telling you this because the way the government tried to explain, making a lot of smart MPs isn't right, it's not in accordance with the current spelling, and according to the current spelling, it has to stand: jobs are determined by the way they are. This is absolutely true and ask the lecturers and ask the professors of Serbian language, so you will see that we are absolutely right. I'm only saying this because of this specific explanation why the government doesn't accept the amendment. Otherwise, you saw that we have no intention of convincing you that these things cannot stand in the law, as they cannot be said to strive to be equally valued, as I said earlier. It can't be in the law to say that something "problems", but the law has to say it has to be or can't be, and that it tends, so that someone, by their will, assesses how much it weighs, it's really not applicable. You have shown that you do not want us to help you make this law look like something and be applicable both in accordance with and in the spirit of our legal system. You don't have to, you're the government and you can do whatever you want. You're just doing us more work for a while when we're changing these laws. Okay, we'll do all that. Article 15, above that article, of course, and above all, we have a title, which determines the coefficients. I expected there to be a name and name here, but there's no name or name. In the position of the 3rd member, it is said to the presidents of the Boards of Appeal, and before that, I must read the whole article, the coefficient is determined by the Head of State, or the person or body designated by a special regulation. It's okay and it's normal. The national official, which is the second position, in the position managed by the state authorities, shall be determined by the body or body responsible for its establishment. And that's okay. This is not right, the presidents of the Board of Appeals of Justice and the advisers of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister who are in a working relationship because they belong to the coefficient of the position set by the government. I don't understand why this is some special category of civil servants. It's okay, every civil servant and group of civil servants has certain tasks, certain responsibilities, certain responsibilities, someone more, someone lower in accordance with that is being paid. Of course, not as you predicted that the lowest wage would be 15,000, or that the ratio between the lowest and the highest salary would be nine times, we already said that it was unacceptable for us. Everyone is very upset about the government, not only in this congregation, but also in the government and where you are sitting. Everyone's very concerned about your proposal that they'll have nine times the salary of those highest salaries. Of course, that's the attitude and attitude of this government towards people who work hard, they work hard. And we MPs know about all the employees who are employed in this building and in this institution, in the Serbian Parliament. We all know how long these people work, how long they stay late, how much they have to follow our work, and very often, you know that it happened and it happened that this assembly didn't work because one or two days the ruling majority couldn't make a quorum and then the next day or after two or three days, when the quorum was somehow provided, then we do ten, eleven, one night, and all of it followed by officials, employees in this assembly, and never, ever, I don't know, for example, that one of them was wrong in his business, that he was innocent, that he didn't find himself a MP for all that it takes. Now they know that their salaries will be much, much less, and even worried about whether there will be less wages than they are now. It's not funny, you know it's not funny yourself, because that's the problem. If you think it's funny comment that the lowest salary can be nine times the most, then I really don't know what to tell you. So the question from this amendment, Zoran Krasic, in which we asked for the erasure of this article, is: which are protected by these appeal committees of the government, the judiciary, who are these presidents, advisers to the president and vice-president of the government. We know who they are now, but we don't accept it, and it's unacceptable that it be some special category, some elite, some superiors, and they turned out to be above your proposal and above the ministers and above the Prime Minister, and they're some "lex specialists". Yes, Mr. Balinovac, read it, I suppose that's what you wrote. Why are these and who are these, who are these Boards of Appeals Governments and Justice, etc. Who they are, and what they are dealing with, and why they are particularly isolated and who will manage these commissions of justice and how they will be independent and independent in their work if the government determines their salary, if their life, conditionally, depends on the government. Really unacceptable, and I don't understand why you don't accept this amendment, why you don't want to remove any suspicion, and this is highly doubtful and opens up the possibility of abuse and extraction of certain people. When we talked to a minister here the other day who was a representative of the government, when we talked about the laws on public ski resorts, and when we talked about him forming a public ski agency just because someone else needs to be arrested, then the minister was so surprised, and his associates smiled just like they are now. It has not been ten days since, here are all the newspapers full of the names of the MPs, or MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, the former assembly. All those MPs who couldn't get settled elsewhere are now at the ski resort agency. All of what we're saying here, and first of all for the public, may not be done, in a moment when we say it is, but it doesn't take long, it turns out that we're absolutely telling the truth. I now say to you that this position where it is said, the Prime Ministers of the Board of Appeals and the Justice and Councilors of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, which are in a working relationship, belongs to the coefficient of the position set by the Government. This is also discrimination. This cannot remain in this law. We suggest, Mr. Balinovac, you still have time to accept the amendment of your colleague Zoran Krasic, because don't let us talk about this member of yours after a few days when we have certain names, as we are now talking about this ski resort agency, in the same way that we are talking about this member of yours and at all about this law. So, another invitation to accept this amendment, to accept amendments that are a purely legal and technical order, which preceded this amendment and certainly the most important amendment, is that the amendment by Alexander Vukic is that the ratio of the lowest and highest wages is 1:3 and not 1:9 as the Government has proposed. If you want to have really civil servants who want to work in the public service, who will want to make progress, then you have to pay them properly, not allow people to look forward to leaving the public service because they can't bear to have nine times the salary of their own manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28243	The word is Zoran Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28244	I've been talking about the pay range and obviously there's no point in talking about it anymore. As for the remarks relating to amendments that have otherwise been made in the agenda, I just want to say that the word "problem" means going towards, not thinking about the weight, if there was some kind of misunderstanding. Then, I will talk about the amendment to Article 15(3), which was spoken of by the previous speaker. He wondered what the appeal committees were from, where the Board of Appeals were from, etc. I'm just going to refer him to the Civil Service Act. There are no fewer than 12 members in the Law on Civil Servants who regulate the work of the Boards of Appeal. They're appeal committees. In a law adopted by the Assembly a year ago, it clearly states what the appeal committees are. For law readers, it's no big deal. The same law states that the presidents of the government's Board of Appeal and the judiciary perform the sole duty of the president of the Board of Appeal, they cannot do anything else, and after the term of office of the president, they have the right to return to their or other suitable position in the state ora. This is Article 152. Law on civil servants. Whoever doesn't believe me can check it out. Since they work only at the president's post, of course they should also receive a salary for their work, I suppose that is also undeniable. Article 15 discusses this, the presidents of the government's appeal committees and the judiciary belong to the coefficient of the position set by the government. By the way, by the way, let me just say that in Article 146 paragraph 3. The civil servants' law clearly states that members of the Board of Appeal have the right to compensation for work. So it's a single institution that's perfectly and clearly regulated by the Civil Service Act. About the president's advisor and the Deputy Prime Minister's advisor, it's been a while, I hope, when the presidents had advisors that no one knew who they were or what they were. I am specifically referring to Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. We want this whole problem to settle the position of Prime Minister's advisor, so that the Prime Minister's advisor is no gray eminence, no one, if I understand the previous speaker correctly, top-notch, etc., that I don't use the terms. We wanted to arrange his position, as it is now in fashion, transparently, to make everything clear. Why were the advisers of the President and the advisers of the Deputy Prime Minister put in this provision? Because they're starting a working relationship for a certain time. That's her specialty. They tie their careers in the state service to the duration of the term of office of the president or vice-president of the government. It's a personal personal connection between the president and his advisor. The president believes that the X person can best advise him in the area and that it suits him. With the moment of the president's term of office, they end the right to be advisers. It happened with Mr. Vice President Labus' advisors as soon as he resigned. Therefore, these are perfectly clear things. It is a special group of people who work for a certain time and therefore the need to settle their wages by law. It is better to regulate it by law, to know who they are, what they are, and how many they are, than to hide them by different acts like the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. If that's not progress, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28245	Replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28246	Mr. Balinovac, I address you with respect and expect you to address me the same way. I warn you, Mr. Chairman, that when someone speaks here, they cannot say "the previous speaker", they must say the name and name of the MP, to say the MP and that one. I thought we knew each other, we were the deputy minister at the same time, sitting on one side, the other side, that office, you know. If you don't know, then write down when I'm called by the chairman or any MP and you have to say the MP, not the previous speaker. It's really ironic what you're trying to say, that weight doesn't mean weight. I'm gonna have to go back to this and read it. I don't understand how the law can go towards something. It can be in some theory, but the law has to come up with something, not going towards something. It stands here – the paying group in which the position is placed in the services of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court and the departments of which the members of the National Assembly are elected, shall be determined by their acts, starting with the general rules for the classification of posts and tending to be them, and you have explained here that it is more difficult to go towards, and then should be said – "and go towards" that they are equally valued, etc. Don't make an ironic explanation to the MPs, Mr Balinovac. I know you're a good lawyer and I'm asking you to talk about our amendments as such. So it's not good to say "severe," because it's inaccurate, because it doesn't mean anything. The simplest thing means nothing. He can't give instructions in law, you know that. The law is a clear and deductible legal norm that says it can't be otherwise. You're also saying that it's better to know who the president's advisors are, vice presidents, etc. Who said you shouldn't know who they are? We also knew Zoran Janjusevic. I will remind you that Vojislav Seselj spoke at his conferences about the crime of Zoran Janjusevic when he was a adviser to Zoran Djindjic, when 90% of Serbian citizens did not know who Zoran Janjusevic was and of course we do not think that we should advocate that we should not know, as you say, that counselors should be some gray eminence, etc. Of course you need to know who the counselor is, who the Board of Appeal is, who the Board of Justice is, what their role is. I know of course what the Civil Service Act says, which, by the way, is very bad and we've had a lot of objections. You know he's been withdrawn from the procedure, you know how barely you got to that law, not to remind you. So, regardless of what is in the Civil Service Act, you wrote - since the presidents of these Boards of Appeal, in addition to their duties in the Board of Appeal, could not do any other work, so it was necessary to arrange their salary with the bill. Who's against getting everyone's salary settled by law? We said they couldn't be privileged, that they couldn't have any special position, that they were civil servants doing a certain job for a certain period. It's just the difference. I'm convinced, Mr. Balinovac, that you know exactly what we're saying and that you know exactly what this amendment is about, but you're trying to be ignorant. No, you're a smart man.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28247	Did you want a word? The Director of the Republic Secretariat for the Legislatives Mr. Balinovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28248	I just wanted to say that our intention is to arrange the position of the advisors of the President of the Republic in a way in which it will be quite clear. To make it clear to everyone what their legal status is, what their wages are, and not to make stories about it. I know, I've heard of Mr. Negatno Kolesar, but I'm not sure that anyone at this time... I apologize for Janjusevic, I'm sorry, Mrs Radeta. We've all heard of Mr Janjusevic, but I don't think any of us know what his salary was. The aim of this law is to make everything clear, to make everything available to the public and to know what the salary and advisers of the Prime Minister are and how much pay is for the very responsible duty of the president of the Board of Appeal. And, in the end, this is something to be taken care of. It's simply one instructive reference norm, a kind of norms that are rightly used to avoid excessive disharmonicity within a position in different types of state bodies. In other words, if you have an assistant minister who has one salary in the ministry, then it would be illogical for an assistant secretary of the National Assembly to have five or six times the salary of an assistant minister. Now, we say by law that these proportions are simply taken into account, etc., so as not to make the legal system ununity and in quite different ways value practically similar or the same business. So that's one reference norm. There's a lot of them in the legal order and they don't represent any news here either.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28249	The People's Messenger Hranislav Perić, then the People's Messenger Marko Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you just heard Mr Balinovec's argument. I believe that only when we adopt this law will it be possible to apply it in practice. I asked one question here, to tell us what the lowest wage is and how high it is. If you've made the law you have to have a vision and say what you're yelling at one to nine, nine is 150 grand, one is 15 grand. If you don't know the answer to that question, then you shouldn't have proposed the law. And as for that -- that you're sorry, Mr. Balinovac, it's true that when you go out for a pay phone, you make a sad face, but you're going to convince me that you really don't regret it until you cry at a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28251	The word has a People's MP, Marko Krstin, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28252	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that we have this debate on a very important subject that requires a truly professional evaluation, and I think that equally all parliamentary groups contribute to having such a debate, regardless of which parliamentary group we belong, and that is the quality of this debate, which is an expert debate at a certain level, which I can estimate as a lawyer. In some things I'd agree to some I wouldn't, in relation to this amendment. When it comes to the texts of our laws, I think we lack lecturing, that we miss our language in those texts, and that we have sometimes really strange norms, we have really strange expressions that we use. I can agree that the individual subtitles of the members are really very strange. I'd even say sometimes they bring someone in for a laugh when he reads the subtitle. I think it would really be necessary, that when we write the laws, we use our language and call on the lecturers to help. So when we've created the text of the norm, then we invite the lecturer to fix it, so that the norm has a dignified, one expression that will be able to challenge anyone who reads respect for the organ that has brought such a norm. Here we have standards that really contain some language misunderstandings, some contractual inconsistencies, etc. As for the debate that, in my opinion, is the basis here, which is the debate about the pay span, I think we really have two concepts here. One concept, however, advocates paying as much as possible, and another concept that advocates making a greater difference. We must start with that worker who has the lowest coefficient having to give himself a normal existence with his work. That's what's important when we leave from determining the salaries of workers in the state administration. It doesn't matter what the range is, but it's important that one who has the lowest coefficient can live off his salary. To be clear, we who worked at the state administration, when we did our job, did our job as securely as they do now, these people who help us here. However, no one who works in the state administration has ever come from having a huge salary. He was starting with that it would be one middle salary for one work which also did not seem to be the work of miners in mines, or some other people who still have a harder job. So we can't say that this is the hardest job of all jobs, etc., not getting into extremes. But working in the state administration is one sure job that has a secure monthly salary, which was never big, so it's neither here nor in any other state. So, I advocate that this first initial salary be a decent man. On the other hand, I'm not in favor of a flattener. We've been led to this by the warden's office, that our government isn't exactly in great shape. The state administration has had a catcher so far, and this law is about to break down and I think it's very good. And if the aim of the law, and it is, to make order he should do it, he needs to set appropriate ranges and these ranges are, in my opinion, realistic. Especially when it goes towards higher functions and higher coefficients, it reduces the number of people on these coefficients, so it won't be a significant number of people. And what I'm saying is, we can't think that government workers are the only workers who help us multiply materials, about some other things that are simpler. The affairs of the state administration are related to administrative affairs, which are the business of applying rules on the rights of citizens, in particular the conduct of administrative proceedings, inspection controls, these are basic transactions in the state administration. These jobs should be well paid because they should be done by professional people because they deal with basic citizens' rights in these jobs. And it's perfectly fine to have a range so that these very inspectors of ours, these experts who run first-degree and second-degree administrative procedures, could be in a good and proper way to address citizens' rights. That's why I support this concept to create a wage range, with that, of course, that the first coefficient, the initial coefficient, should be such as to allow a person to normally exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28253	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. The bill on salaries of civil servants and here I will seek, of course not in terms of weight but in terms of "go to" to respect the legal theoretical knowledge that Mr Balinovac has and which is not modest, but I will never be able to accept and respect its consistency that those amendments that would significantly improve this law mean nothing to him and do not decide to accept them. Once again, I must point out that this law really offends the dignity of government employees, civil servants, where Article 3 provides that civil servants will be entitled to pay on the first day they start working and will receive it until the last day they work. I really must say that it may be for your European friends, who do not know when they are entitled to pay, but all employees in the state administration in the Republic of Serbia know for sure when they have the right to pay. I have proposed an amendment to delete article 16 and the title above article 16. And what is regulated by Article 16, or what does Article 16 speak about? Three types of descriptive estimates are provided for when employees of civil servants have the right to improve in the higher pay grade. So it's said: if a state official who has been given a two-year cross-species rating "is particularly prominent", he is progressing for two paid classes. Then, in the next case, when a civil servant gets an "expected" or "mostly stands out" rating and stands out two years consecutively regardless of the way he is rated, he progresses for one pay grade and, in the third case, when an employee of a civil servant gets a good grade, twice consecutively or "extends" and "good" will advance for one pay grade. I have proposed an amendment to delete this article and the title above article 16, because it is unacceptable for us. There is no methodology as to how, who, and how they will assess the employees of the state administration, so we believe that in practice the application of this member would very often lead to the abuse of the position assumed by these civil servants. The legal argument which completely convinces me that this member is unnecessary is that it is provided for in the transitional and final provisions of this law that this member enters into force, i.e. to be applied since 2011. I have tried to analyse this amendment and prepare myself for this debate to explain why it has been applied since 2011, and I have not been able to draw any conclusions, unless it is that one term is already going to pass, since certain mandates are scheduled to last five years, or five years, that this may not be the reason, so that for the first time we do not evaluate these five years, to see experimentally what it looks like, which will lead to practice, and then let's see how that would be done. Then, Mr. Balinovac said, the director said, of course once again to say that his legal theoretical knowledge is immodest, that the president's advisors should be famous persons and be given salaries. I'm not entirely sure and he knows it's not like that. The president of the DS had some advisors who weren't even in the army, they were 25, 26 years old, and no one knows about some of his advisors today. The president may be that way, but this one of the advisors was also a consultant at military service. Did Mr. Balinovac have in mind cases like that or was he here more based on government advisors, but it doesn't matter that much either. He says they're convicted, it's about Article 13, those who have a salary nine times higher than those who have nine times the pay, and that's not a conviction. Someone's been commenting on it. I'm not gonna stick around for that part. I have only one thing to point out, that Mr. Krstin, who spoke earlier, reminded me once again, although I, on a daily journey to my love, see how to live in Serbia, convinced me, indeed, as an MP from the G17 Plus Group, that I live in Serbia. Mr. Marko Krstin also, I am asked by citizens, not only in my Ljubija, but in Loznica, Mali Zvornik and all of Serbia: where Milosevic Albianic lives, because when he comes out for this pay phone he starts to pour honey and milk and people say – does this man even come out of the National Assembly, does he even go to the apartment, see how some people live in Belgrade without talking in Požega and other places. This Mr. Marko Krstin showed that he still belongs to a daily life in Serbia and I think that this law, too, would be the best option since he has a lot of inaccuracies and moments, is Mr. Balinovac made an effort to make a proposal for each amendment and to explain how it would be both applicable and practical. I'm not entirely sure about that, and we also advocate that civil servants' salaries are regulated by law, and that's the only way that it points out and points out that there shouldn't be any abuses, but in this way it certainly won't be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28255	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are once again in a situation where we do not have a minister to explain and support some law. When I asked which minister today explains the law to us MPs, I received a reply from Minister Balinovac. Of course, nothing can surprise us anymore, because once the Constitution is overrun, once someone accepts to be the one to step footing first the Constitution of the SRJ, then the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then of course it is no problem for him to run over the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is, of course, a famous legalist, Vojislav Kostunica, who has proved to him that nothing is foreign to him, that he is ready to do anything and simply, when that road goes that way, there is no turning back, it is simply going to the full end. Today, Minister Vuk Draskovic, at least, says to us, (although we chose the mentioned gentleman here in the Republic Assembly for Minister, and the minister is also called Mr Zoran Stankovic, although he is neither a gentleman nor a minister)... And then it would not surprise us here, even whoever we find here in the morning, to tell us, "This is the new minister We say, "How could there be no congregation debate?" And you say, for God's sake, you did not follow the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Last night, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica met, and it appears that he had been flown by that owl from the Federation Palace now to the seat of the Republic government, so he arranged to appoint another minister with her. As regards the law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, the SRS has already made a number of concrete remarks and during the debate in principle, and of course we now have the opportunity to criticise individual solutions in the context of the debate on amendments. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The bill on salaries of civil servants, which is required to be said: "two paying classes" replaces the words "one paying class", so that this Article 18 reads: "The state official who enters the position of the head of the internal unit is increasing the coefficient for one paying class". While the second position of the same member would read: "A state official who stops handling the internal unit the coefficient decreases by one instead of two paying classes". We believe that this solution is far more logical, as it is logical and that the range between salaries is smaller, that there is no ratio 1:9 as you have suggested, because in this way it will reduce the possible abuses and huge pay gaps that those who can certainly and freely say may work most in ministries and state services, while some of your tenants would have extremely large salaries. I will remind you that all those you have delegated have been appointed by the organization and the state authorities in which they work, have been, as a rule, highly suspicious and professional and have, as a rule, caused affairs and similar problems. This way all of this would be brought into a much better plane and we would avoid the possibility of certain things jumping over. It is interesting that (you say) the funds needed to implement this law are needed for 2007 amounting to 4,365,000 dinars, which increases the current wage fund by as much as 41%. We were all witnesses when Mr Dinkic, who is not here today, is probably promising towers and cities around Serbia in the pre-election campaign, when Mr Dinkic, about asking whether a health worker, whether a worker in education, answers here or at some press conference, how nothing since salary increases, is possible two or three percent, but deployed for the next five or ten years, in order for any further increase to cause inflation, in order to reverse us, to stop us in our path to Europe. Then, logically, the question is raised how it is possible for this one law, especially if the number of civil servants in the Republic of Serbia is increased by as much as 41%. Also, I must express my suspicion that this increase will not be evenly distributed. These 41%, that's what everyone who works in the public service should know, will not be the increase they'll get. So if you work in any ministry or any state authority and you have a salary of 12,000 or 15,000 dinars, don't hope that in 2007, your salary will be 40% higher. That 40% is just the average of how much pay is going to be increased. Those who fall into these lower paying classes, and there are plenty of them, as you have seen, will most likely be increased by two, three or five percent, while those at the height of those scales, which do not come on a regular basis, not through years of work, pawnage and promotion in service, but by appointment by ministers, Prime Minister and Head of State, are those who will have the biggest increase. Their increases are likely to be 200-300 or more percent, so when they add it up with these two or three percent, how much will the officials who fall into the lowest pay grade get, and when they get the average, it's going to be that 41% of the total increase. Therefore, the SRS advocates an incomparably fair solution. We believe that differences and ranges between salaries of civil servants cannot and must not be so. Also, we think it's logical that if someone moves on to the head of a state body, or to the head of an internal unit, that they need to be paid up by one pay grade. In this way a much fairer distribution would be established. I remind you that the solution, similar to what you are proposing today, has already been tried once in practice, that a similar law has already existed, that it has not produced good results. You simply did not present to us today or in the previous part, when it came to the debate in principle, you did not give us any argument that would convince us that this law would now be able to work. For all of this, I urge you once again to accept this amendment to the SRS and vote in favour of this reduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28257	The word is made by the Director of the Republic Secretariat of Law, Mr Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28258	I'm not a minister, and if I'd like to, I won't answer. There is a Article 194. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which explains why I'm here. "The representatives of the Government, at the meeting of the National Assembly and its committees, can only be members of the Government and secretary of the Republic Secretariat of the Legislatives, when the National Assembly session is on the agenda of the draft law prepared for the Government by the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives." So, if this provision of the Rules of Procedure had been read, there would have been no doubt why I'm here. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, we in the legal order of Serbia are now able to pay the manager of the internal unit about 20%. It is now predicting a lower rate of increase, i.e. to be 10%. Namely, between all payment classes within one pay group, the difference is 5%. When you say you're increasing your manager's salary by two paying groups, you actually said you're increasing his salary by 10%. I say, it's a reduction compared to the current 20 percent solution, up to 30 percent. There are still legal problems that I think my predecessor, MP Nemanja Sarovic, has not seen, but I do not want to take the time of the National Assembly. As for the issues of how Ministers Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic are, it is a very complicated legal issue in which two principles are intertwined: the principle of international law following Serbia, with all rights and obligations of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the principle of constitutional and internal legality. Those two principles are, in this case, in slow motion. If Serbia is the successor of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then it is also the successor of all its ministries, with it able to choose which ministries it needs and which it does not need I stick to the agenda to the same extent as Mr. Sarovic. [[Tossing from the O.R.: Stick to the agenda.]] (President: Mr Balinovac, indeed, stick to the agenda. This is what I'm saying for the citizens. There are conflicts between two very difficult legal principles: the principle of legality in the internal order and the principle of international succession. It's not as easy to resolve as some people think, but since I said what needs to be said about the amendment, I won't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28259	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Balinovac, so far you are neither Minister nor People's MP. Of course, I wouldn't possibly have that much against being. Believe me, I would prefer you to be in the position of the minister rather than Vuk Draskovic and than Zoran Stankovic. So, in my opinion, there aren't two worse people, two worse moral freaks who could do the job of ministers, but what they are. That's not what this is about. You can't, as a representative of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, be here to speak beyond the subject that's on the agenda. I'm allowed to, because I'm a National MP and this is our home. So, incomparably greater rights here we have who we are as hosts, than anyone can have on the side, regardless of whether it's a minister, whether it's a representative of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. What's the point, as much as you, Mr. Balinovac, are trying and trying to explain something, you can't and you haven't done it now. You started talking about how there was a dispute between, supposedly, international continuity and our internal legal order. I know that you understand certain things right, and I know that it's not easy or pleasant for you to sit here and try to explain something that's inexplicable. So, what's true and what's the only truth, it's that Vojislav Kostunica committed a coup. Come out Mr. Balinovac after me and tell me here what the definition of a coup is, is a coup when a state authority takes over certain powers that are not given to it by the Constitution and by law. (President: Please stick to the agenda. I'm out on the line, Mr. Mikhailovich. I can talk about whatever I want. (President: I agree, however, that you are challenging a new replica, and if I have already warned the Director of the Secretariat, I have a duty to remind you that you are sticking to the agenda. I have a correct relationship with Mr. Balinovac and he doesn't take this personally and he knows I'm right about this. So the coup is being carried out when Vojislav Kostunica, as prime minister of the Republic government, sets up a prime minister. This is what happens when Vojislav Kostunica, as prime minister of the Republic government, gives authority to the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic. So Vojislav Kostunica is a dictator. Imagine what would have happened if anyone else had done this, imagine that any similar regulation was brought by Mirko Marjanovic or if he had brought it, signed by Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj. Imagine what would be said and done. So you're asking us here to talk about some things that are completely pointless. Vojislav Kostunica has carried out a coup, the state authorities seem to know nothing about it. Here we are also calling on the District Public Prosecutor's Office, calling on all state authorities to do what is laid down by law and the Constitution to protect the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. As long as you think you're going, I don't really know. This is ridiculous, this is nothing. If you could so brutally violate the Republic Constitution and do what you've done, then why should we even discuss salaries, the Law on the salaries of civil servants? If Vojislav Kostunica can regulate the constitution with apparitions and regulations, then what do we need the law for? The laws are lower legal acts than the Constitution. The Constitution is the highest legal act. When the Constitution runs over and it's as brutal as Vojislav Kostunica did, then we don't need laws at all. Mr. Balinovac, I advise you, because of your personal authority, you know that every authority is fleeting, and this one is at the very end, don't get too involved in this, you are aware that you cannot explain it yourself, let Vojislav Kostunica come here and explain it to us. He was here two days ago, in this House, and he suggested that we choose the Deputy Prime Minister. Why was that done? Why didn't the Deputy Prime Minister name it a regulation? If it's possible to appoint two ministers, why couldn't the third? What's the difference? So we're all aware that the state coup of Vojislav Kostunica is here. This has now become an open dictatorship. So, for yourself, because of you, I'm telling you, don't get high, let those who've got all this mixed up and who are behind all this, who are benefiting from all this, to explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28261	I ask the People's MPs to stick to the agenda, because that's the only way we can do this job that's right in front of us today. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the question really arises as to why Kostunica, the Prime Minister, did not declare this bill on amending and supplementing the law, but rather the bill on salaries of civil servants and deputies, and would then resolve the issue exactly in line with how they solve all state issues, but rather let the Kobajagi democracy be here, that Kobajagi has a strict division of powers, but, while we are here, to look back on Article 26, which was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. For the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I will read both the article and the amendment and it will be clear what we are looking for. If, by written order of the alleged civil servant, he does business that is not in his job description, because he has been temporarily increased the size of transactions or the work of an absent civil servant, he shall be entitled to an additional burden. That's just fine. The 2nd position, which is irony, reads - the additional burden for at least 10 working days per month is 4%. If the salary is the lowest civil servant fifteen thousand, for an additional burden of ten working days, as it will replace the absent official, it will receive 600 dinars. That is 5% of the basic salary if the civil servant replaces the head of the internal unit. If he does far more complex jobs, he'll get 750 dinars. The additional burden for at least 20 working days is 8% per month. So it's going to have 1,000 dinars if it replaces a colleague, or 10%, for 1,500 dinars, if it replaces the boss. National MP Milovan Radovanovic, given that this is a common practice in state institutions and that many times it happens that one official does two and more jobs, asked to replace the words like this – 4% to replace it with 10%, so it would be 1,500 dinars in ten days, it's not that big money, but at least it will get something, of 5% it would be 1,750 dinars and add-on for 20 working days, instead of 8% to be 20%, which would burden the budget with 3,000 dinars, I'm talking about the lowest salary of a civil servant or 25%, which means 4,000 if it replaces the heads of the 20 days, or the whole working month, because the working month has 24 working days. I think Mr Balinovac could now show good faith, at least on this amendment and adopt this amendment, and if that doesn't happen, then I ask you to think a little bit about these people who are doing all these jobs so that we MPs can do our part of the job properly, think about them and adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28263	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Hranislav Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. It is about the fact that Article 16 provides for the evaluation of officers with grades – good, sufficient, pointed out, particularly pointed out, etc. I know that you have improved the state of education with these and these grades, when you have introduced such an evaluation, and now you are assessing a worker who works in the state administration; he has 30 years of training and 55 years of age, and some boss who came at twenty-two years old and a year of working internship, he writes about him and says, "This one points out, this one doesn't stand out, this one particularly stands out." What should be done and what can you get to the grade – especially prominent? What does a worker have to do, go faster, run more, get dressed, get a coffee boss faster, I don't know what the criteria are to get a worker to that grade? I believe that this article, (and so I have submitted the amendment), needs to be deleted, there are many ways in which you can determine the salary of the clerk and the one who works weaker and the one who works well. Therefore, the Labour Act is clear, the one who does not work under the Labour Law knows what is next to him, and the one who works should earn a salary. The law provides for what to do with those who work overtime, etc. So it doesn't make any sense, and I don't think it's how it's given in the law to humiliate workers, and that the workers in that part will have a lot of problems, and those collegiate relationships won't be high if you divide the collective and give someone enough. It's a famous scheme and it was done in companies when you could give someone 5% stimulation and some 10% stimulation. It's a story for the castoff of workers for the next 15 days until the next salary to which it was given, and which was not given, etc. I suggest that Mr. Balinovac delete this member from the law and what he will do, I ask a question, a manager who has 30 or 50 employees. All he has to do is go to the workers and watch so they can grade. I think this is excessive and it's a really bad solution in the law, so we ask you once again to consider and that you have time to accept that this member is deleted, and if not, I ask the MPs to delete this in the day of voting and not make a circus in the state services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28265	The word is made by the Director of the Secretariat of Legislative Affairs, Mr Balinovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, there are organized and unsettled states. I've never heard of a state called a circus. The Law on civil servants, which practically continues this law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, stipulates that the civil servant is progressing in two ways. By moving to a job that is more paid and within the workplace, therefore, without moving to a more paid job and moving to a higher pay grade. Those are the provisions of Article 87(3). A law on civil servants that says a civil servant can advance by turning into a higher pay grade without changing jobs, according to the Law governing salaries in state authorities. At the moment of the preparation of this law on civil servants, we had in mind that this situation should be settled, which is so-called. horizontal progress, progress within one workplace. The next question to be asked is how to explicitly determine the criteria that should be used for advancement. The only way that's known about us, and everywhere in the world, is by grading. The evaluations that were so ironic of speech are set out in Article 84. The law on civil servants, which was also passed a year ago and said it does not satisfy, satisfy, good, stand out and particularly stand out. Therefore, only one idea is being discussed in this law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants, which, according to the logic of the civil servants law, could only be hinted at there. There's no revolution here. Here you're just going to clarify and finally, edit official relations. The evaluations shall be determined in a manner prescribed by the Assessment Regulation for civil servants. The government is under Article 84(3). The civil servants' law was authorized to adopt the Regulation and, by respecting its legal powers, it also passed it. I'll introduce you to her, simply to see that there's no arbitration, no coffee or anything like that. The civil servant shall be assessed for work from 1 January to 31 December. It sets working goals, criteria, criteria for assessing results, independence, creative capacity, entrepreneurship, precision and security, quality of co-operation, additional assessment criteria. The assessment, in particular, stands out, shall be determined by a civil servant who, with an exceptional result, achieves work objectives and fulfils job requirements. Be careful, the Assessment Regulation has 47 members who have only one purpose, to prevent arbitration and to prevent the manager from assessing, and thus the progress of civil servants, turn into something that will depend on political, religious personal favors or anything else. So, 47 members of the Government Regulation with two contributions that regulate how these evaluation reports must look, edits one problem that we are dealing with now with this law when we say that someone is progressing within their post in the higher pay grade if it is twice the highest grade, etc. So there's not a word about any chaos. It is about a systematic logical, peaceful and comprehensible development of the situation in the planning of an official system that is modelled in modern European countries. We didn't have another role model, simply because it was countries that developed the service system for many years before us, and in some ways our position was so much easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28267	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 27 regulates the overtime of persons working in state authorities. According to the bill, a civil servant for each hour who, by order of his superior, works longer than full-time has the right to an hour and a half off. Overtime work shall be recalculated three months into the free hours that a civil servant must use no later than six months from the course of the quarter in which he has achieved them. Extraordinary. A civil servant who cannot take advantage of the hours off, because the nature of the job more often requires such extensive overtime, can be paid an extra for every hour of overtime of 26% of the working hours of the basic salary of a civil servant. When it begins a little more precisely with the interpretation of this article, it is the impression that the proposer of this law does not, in fact, intend to, except in exceptional cases, make it up to the worker in a monetary sense overtime, but exclusively to pay him off, if possible, by using the days off for the time he was working overtime. You could have left that as an option. The amendment tabled by Bozidar Koprivica on behalf of the SRS says to a civil servant for each hour who, by order of his superior, works longer than full-time, will pay an extra for every hour of overtime of 26% of the value of the basic salary of a civil servant. That's the whole point, the one who works overtime has to be paid for it. The question cannot be left for mercy and mercy to the direct manager whether he will be ordered to pay him overtime or to make him use his days off. So the law is already regulated, annual vacations, days off, under which conditions are obtained, etc. So why are we now making parallel legislation in a piece regulated by the general legal provisions? The problem is that an overtime worker has an unequivocal right to be paid for it, not to use his days off. You've left here the possibility of a direct executive deciding on it. However, when it comes to working in state authorities, there is a slightly more specific situation than in any other type of working relationship, because the state body itself has a certain impact on all possible other forms of government it has and of which, a worker who is not satisfied with the decision of the direct manager can appeal. Leave in the law the exclusion that an overworker must be paid to do so rather than constantly revolve around the days off. We even have a situation in the National Assembly that, say, a direct executive determines that the Assembly will not work for, say, three or four days when it comes to national holidays such as New Year's Eve, such as Christmas, and then states that these days off will be used between those two holidays to make up for their vacation. So that's how the worker's ability to use his vacation, and he can't come to work because the body he's working in doesn't work. So if he already has a certain right manager, then let us protect the worker, and not this way – you worked overtime, but the Assembly won't work for 10 or 20 days, in that time you don't have to come to work, and that overtime you've had we'll refuse you for those days of not coming to work. I think you should accept a amendment like this. Basically, it doesn't go into the depths of a law that's basically not the right solution, it's not the best you could offer us. The only problem can be that the overtime budget will require more resources to be allocated, but it will never be so much an amount that it could significantly disrupt the state budget that, as you keep saying, is in surplus so I don't see why you wouldn't accept one such amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28269	The word is Zoran Balinovac, then Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28270	According to the Labour Act, employees can work overtime eight hours a week, and for the longest four hours a day. This means that overtime is possible only at 32 hours, that it can work overtime 32 hours a month, or 384 hours a year. Over 384 hours, no overtime under the Labour Act is paid. Such a solution is the consequence of conventions adopted by the International Labour Organisation. What does it come down to in practice? It comes down to a rough and faceless exploitation of employees. Those who often work overtime for the 384 hours of use in three, four months, the first three, four months of the year and continue to work the rest overtime, but the payout is prohibited and practically means that they work longer than full-time, without getting any money for it, because simply by the Law on the work of the legal basis for that money there is no money. So, in practice, for limiting overtime only to 384 hours a year, we have a cruel exploitation of people who work overtime. That problem, we tried to solve at least when it comes to civil servants, worked longer than full-time and needs rest. Every hour longer than full-time counts as an hour and a half. It's recalculated into free days once every three months, and it's used in six months. If he can't take advantage of everything or if he goes over these 384, we're giving him a chance to get a cash fee. In other words, this solution avoids the current exploitation by combining the free-day regime with the money payment regime, and that is the whole purpose of this provision, because no one can deny it the right to free days when it exceeds 384 hours, and the right to money is denied by private employers, it also deprives the state because it has not been planned for the budget. Secondly, I don't know where the idea is that the only form for which overtime work can be rescheduled is money. What's with the idea? Money isn't the only way work is worth it. Annual vacation is an example of money not being worth working for but resting. Therefore, you worked longer than full-time and rest because of what you were doing, not to work constantly longer, to receive only 384 hours and then not to receive anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28271	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28272	Just to explain, I wasn't in the O.R. when he was a member of 16. It's about grading employees. I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. The State official shall be paid overtime by calculating for each hour of overtime an extra of 40% of the working hour value of the basic salary of the civil servant. Excessive work can be turned into days off by turning every hour of overtime into one hour of free time. The overtime allowance shall be calculated and paid out of the final accounts of officials for the month in which the overtime has been achieved. What did I want with this amendment? I wanted to give workers the opportunity to have two solutions and they could choose. Those who wish to replace it with days of their own free days, and those who do not have the days to be paid for it. I think that's okay. When you need it and when you don't need it, you have to use the day off, and when you need it, you have to stay and work overtime. If you already have to work when you're ordered to, to stay overtime, then they have to give you a chance to charge for it, if you want. Since the Assembly, and you know when the president enters the O.R. and says, today we're going to work until that point is over, so tomorrow he says again, so by 21 o'clock, it's certainly valuable to people that time, but since they're following the work of the Assembly, they have to stay. If that's the way it has to be, then it's logical to give them two options. In a month's time, if we work long and work as we do here in the Assembly, how many days will be available, and how many workers will have to replace those workers who work in certain places, because we can't let all the workers in the Serbian Parliament use the days they earn. I think this article would get rid of it, and I suggest that this amendment be accepted, so it's not falling off the law, it's only giving instead of one two possibilities, or that it's possible, for your overtime, to take your days off, and if you don't, you can charge for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28273	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was listening to Mr Balinovec a moment ago, I wondered if we had come back at a time of socialist self-management, because I can understand the part that refers to the generally regulated matter that is being founded, that is, when it comes to establishing a working relationship in any form or in any other legal person, but this one here comes out and said that, or that the workers in the state bodies are equalized with the miners, with the builders, with heavy physical workers, someone is exploiting workers in the bodies of the state administration. So that's the essence of his answer. It will be more likely that you have signed all these conventions so far (which we, as an opposition, are not important or interested in), not because you would take the workers into protection, but to prevent excessive work from happening in various public enterprises. So, not in state bodies, but in public enterprises and institutions, especially when it comes to health workers, when it comes to miners, etc. So to prevent overtime from going there, you signed various conventions. Now you apply the same thing to the organs, or to the workers in the authorities of the state administration, just like that, the interpretation goes on hand, not to the worker, but to the employer, because someone is going to use it, so you tell him he has to work overtime, but you tell him, you don't get paid for it, but you're going to have a day off. Who's here to count? The worker, because you leave it right for him to decide whether or not he will, and this is how you leave the direct manager to decide. It writes – it can, it doesn't say that the manager has to approve it if he wants to, and when it doesn't write it, this amendment that Bozidar Koprivica submitted, it's regulated to pay him and do not turn the thesis around, because no one can say that the exploitation of workers is if he receives a cash fee for his overtime. Exploitation is, gentlemen, when he's working, and he's not getting paid. These provisions are exactly what you encourage. So reward the worker or give him the opportunity to decide for himself, not to have a direct handler, and that is the problem. I'm sorry that an authorised representative isn't here to answer this, but okay, I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28275	By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleagues from the SRS are now, first or two sentences that are not related to the amendment, but with the objections of my colleagues who have been brought here to the fact that Mr Balinovac here represents the Government when it comes to the draft law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. I just want to remind you that the government has really written that a representative of the Government, as a pronoun, will be Zoran Balinovac and Mladjan Dinkic and, of course, between Mladjan Dinkic and Zoran Balinovac, it is more acceptable to sit here, but Mladjan Dinkic, and that he must, probably not be here, as he escaped from the MPs yesterday to compete with Velja Ilic about the state cost of competition with Velija Ilic in leading some candidates for the presidents of the municipalities; some who showed his finger – vote for this, therefore, to think of the presidents of the municipality, as I have already told you, and again I will ask them when they are present, to see how many times they have gone with how many civil cars, what they have promised, how many officials they have spent, how many state money, just to fool the citizens, as they do, that they will not go back to the city elections, and to the beginning. They did so in the King, Smedereva, and now these Young People are harassing people by hiring this agency from Belgrade to call citizens to vote for them, and Velya again promises another airport. Good for us, wherever the local elections are, there's nothing at the airport, and they're all lies and delusions of that people, that is, those people who are supposed to vote. I'm just saying this to draw these people's attention that all those promises immediately after the election will be forgotten, regardless of what election results were and where the government candidate or part of the government won, there is nothing from government promises, or from ministers who are on the ground, and ministers are no place in campaigns, ministers belong in government, in their jobs and everywhere in Serbia, but on issues from the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not the promotion of their party candidates. I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia will know that they will assess it, as they did in Bora. When it comes to amendment to Article 27, here is indeed a very interesting argument (this Government, which is given) which is why the amendment of Bozidar Koprivica is not accepted, and it is quite the opposite of the explanation of Mr Balinovec, which he brought here in the oral part. Just to remind you that this is about being in article 27. The bill therefore foresees that a civil servant for each hour who, by order of his superior, works longer than full-time, therefore, stands still in parentheses – overtime, has the right to an hour and a half off. Overtime work shall be converted three months into the free hours that a civil servant must use no later than six months from the end of the quarter when he has achieved them. Exceptionally, a state official who can't use his spare hours, Mr. Balinovac, therefore, writes in your bill, because the nature of the job often requires such extensive overtime, can be paid an extra for every overtime of 26 percent of the basic salary. So, this is written in the bill, and you've just tried to explain here in an explanation how the days or hours are free, whatever you want, some service to the employees, because they, my God, are doing as much as they're asked for, which is of course not disputed, and that's much more than what the Labour Act allows, and then you'll be where you can't, or as you said, that it's written and we would accept it, that overtime is paid as many hours as the Labour Act predicts, and besides giving the days off. We wouldn't mind that, but you wrote the opposite here, Mr. Balinovac. You said it's highly paid and that it's given on a regular basis. That's not how it's gonna work. For that you should have accepted our amendment as we have changed this Article 27. Here you were saying that this amendment, or that the bill is to prevent the exploitation of employees, etc. Mr. Balinovac, you have been referring to some international conventions. Mr. Balinovac, overtime is limited to a certain number of hours, not because someone doesn't have the money to pay for it, but because a living man can't work 24 hours a day. For these reasons, for safety reasons, for safety at work, the number of overtime hours is limited to the conventions. Then don't make it about whether anyone can, will or won't pay. We're just looking, insisting that what's under these international conventions is being translated into this law. So every hour spent past work hours must be paid up to that amount, or the number of hours provided for by the Labour Act. What's beyond that should be translated into days off and only really in agreement with that employee. Ask these girls who work here when they can use their days off, when they can use their days off at the Serbian Parliament when there will be a working break this year, Mr. President, about a month around. It's a period when they need to take advantage of an annual vacation that's almost that long and they're going to take advantage of their days off. So, it's an exploitation, although I don't like that expression, because I don't believe anyone is exploiting anyone, it's simply about whether someone wants to pay or not, what kind of conditions someone does, etc., what the relationship between unions and employees is. This is a topic for another law and for another minister, but I repeat, you said here in this written explanation of the amendment to Hranislav Perić, you said the same for the amendment of Bozidar Koprivica – the amendment is not accepted because overtime is a derogation from the prescribed full-time weekly work hours, such work should be an exception, not a rule etc. Mr. Balinovac. We all know, and people who do overtime what overtime is. I've worked for years in local self-government, I've also worked at the state administration and we know what the relationship between employees and local self-government and state administrations is. Can someone who is employed in the Serbian Parliament or in the Government at your place, if you say: today remains to work until six o'clock, can anyone say – I'm sorry, I can't, I'm going home. She can't say that, she can't say that. He may once find a reason, or reason to be justified, but to say, something hurts my head, I go home, he can't do it, because MPs do it, he wants to work all day, all night, however much, all the employees have to be there and have to work a lot longer than that full-time. I repeat, Mr. Balinovac, accept this amendment at least as much as we can under the Labour Act, pay these people this overtime, everyone who works overtime and let what they can't pay to get their days off, but when they need them, not to fit in for a month off and vacation, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28277	Zoran Balinovac has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28278	In the bill, an authentic solution was tried, of course not by some original form, but by some other legislation. Personally, I think the solution to the bill is good, but it seems that we have too much habit of treating this overtime as Mrs Radet has just presented. All I care about is what happens to people when they step over the annual hours of overtime. Then they don't pay them, and our idea of free days would be a substitute for money, but if the tradition in Serbia is that this new solution, as far as I can see, is not accepted with such perseverance, we are ready to accept the amendment of the MPs of Bozidar Koprivica. (Predrag Markovic, from place: Accept or are you ready? We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28279	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We have practice here, Mr Markovic, that MPs speak when the amendment is accepted. It happens very often. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28280	Thank you, Mr. Beard. I am glad that you have commented, it does happen sometimes, and it is good that you have called it practice, that it is sometimes discussed about accepted amendments, but it is a business law and it comes from the discrepancies of different provisions of the Rules of Procedure and often the fact that a committee has not adopted allows citizens not to know exactly what it looks like, that by referring to one member of the Rules of Procedure, it is talking about an amendment that has been accepted. And I'm saying this as a reason for the amendment that I submitted to Article 41 and Article 8, because it's actually an identical explanation, it's identical matter. Otherwise, we have a problem as a state that during the establishment of the state and full functionality of all institutions, because for various reasons that citizens know well, the MPs also know them, the whole series of institutions either did not function or the hierarchy of jobs was clearly defined in practice and part of it is the non-compliance of the law. The responsible approach of all responsible MPs, namely all MPs who have participated in the work on committees and the preparation of the law and responsible approach of experts working on the preparation of the law in this meeting, the previous meeting, in that meeting since 1998 is going to bring our laws into line with the standards common in European legislation. It's been happening since 1998 in continuity, but of course there are still different discrepancies. What we were just talking about, you can't physically do anything. As the previous amendment, which was accepted by the proposing representatives here, some things cannot be implemented, because there are more important state interests concerning all citizens. If this meeting works most days of the year, of course there are no days when people will be able to rest and of course you can't see it from the point of view of the officers, here I'm talking about the officers and the tenants, it's possible to see it, because we tend to fight politically and to not necessarily give recognition to people who do their job based on the data we have at our disposal. Eight hundred percent, I have repeatedly presented this information, the National Assembly Service eight hundred percent, eight times more physical work done because of the government's activities, MPs, or promoters, either in the making of amendments, or in other jobs. Of course that's not possible to pay adequately, but of course it's not news news, but it's news news, which keeps showing up so much that MPs themselves give an answer, so when journalists ask them why you're increasing your salary 50%, they say – you know, we do so much. The MPs have never increased their salary. The MPs don't decide at all. It's one of those stupid lies. The result of that lie is that we are, in fact, losing our sense of what the level of power is. Most importantly, the highest power is legislative, then executive, which is divided. When the highest is said, it does not mean that legislative decisions from another area are known only what is the basis. In a legitimate way, something is arranged. Then, the executive that was divided in Serbia, then the court. In practice, this is often indicated by this speaker, of course we also have advisory authority. It's a rather unusual kind of government, it's not regulated anywhere, but it appears in practice. Hence often confusion, but all of this is possible in the media, all of this is possible for this speaker, but there are times when in the places where you find yourself you have to remind yourself of the right and the only criterion, just like that obligation and when you're not in that place. I did not need the speaker of the assembly to go out for a pay phone in the spring of 2003 and to say that the declaration that has been broadcast since then by Serbia's MUP is jeopardising citizens' rights. I didn't need any function to do that, just as I could never put out an account for everything I lost fighting for parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy knows what the job of parliament is, the job of the executive government is known, the job of the judicial authority is known. That's why it was my duty, as a People's MP, from the place I now perform on behalf of all of you, because that's what the law says, to ask you to be a member. 8 and 41, which are identical, change and vote, I'll read you article 41. "The basis is determined for each budget year by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The foundation of the services of the President of the Republic and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be determined by the committee responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." The argument is the same: "Amendment is proposed as from the Constitution of the established position of the National Assembly, according to which the National Assembly is the institution of the legislative authority. Accordingly, the National Assembly has the authority to organise its work and organization on its own, as set out in Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In order to ensure that the National Assembly can, on its own and in an appropriate manner, arrange specific tasks related to its work and decision-making, it is necessary that the competent working body of the Assembly, i.e. The Management Board, as provided for in the rules in force now (Article 3. Law on salaries in state authorities and public services, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 34/01 and Article 73(1), paragraphs 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia determines the basis in the services of the President of the Republic and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Such a legal solution would bring the practice of states with developed parliamentary democracy whose parliaments have a specific budget, to the adoption of legislation that would regulate the National Assembly's budget." This argument, if not clear, does not rest on the idea that the Administrative Board will establish a basis that will differ and that perhaps in this way officials, those 10,000 or 40,000 employees in different services, will not think that these 200 employees will have a different basis. No, of course not. They haven't had one before. The Management Board always confirms the basis. Why? Because the budget is poor, because we are a poor country and we always try, as much as possible, to let political debates go, to make it possible for the state to function. Of course, there is always, there is no need to explain it to the citizens, you know it well, and by law you can't fix it, there are those who, under circumstances, don't do enough. It's that nice old practice that says, "You can't pay me so little, how little I'm going to do." Of course, but it's not your people's fault, and there's no law on them. It's not the people who, for example, worked at different levels of the state community, which was not work until it was resolved – either to strengthen or to establish itself now. These people are not guilty in any way. We're talking about two services, one small number of people, and the fact, I've read you the position of a valid constitution, and it's my duty to respect it. And in the proposals for a new constitution, which we are discussing these days, a representative of the promoters is also familiar with the proposals of the new constitution, of course, that, in accordance with international obligations, according to parliamentary democracy, the budget of the National Assembly will be arranged. It will be the same item in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which now exists, no more, no less money, but will allow it to organise work properly. By the way, it was on several occasions a private matter: Mr. President, why don't you withdraw the amendment? I cannot, because there are political stories, there are discrepancies of members of the law, there are various solutions that we can also call upon in the Constitution, but as it was not possible, if someone does not sign the decision and propose to this assembly, that Serbia assumes its responsibilities, although it is also stated in Article 60. Constitutional charters, but to get into possession, someone had to do it, it's in his job description. It is rude to ask the president of the assembly to withdraw an amendment defending parliamentary democracy. It's on the verge of rudeness, not using a harsher term. But I'm used to that kind of rudeness. I remind you once again, when I went out for a pay phone in 2003, I said that the MUP can't make this kind of statement, it endangers citizens' rights. I'm a citizen. I received gratitude, and personally, many parties who could have been struck by so misunderstood rights to a statement. As a few months later, I received apologies from all those who made the wrong decision on June 5, 2006. What am I supposed to do with that apology? Sometimes some things you have to do at the right time, it's not just a matter of state. There's a time when you have to express love or sympathy to someone. If you miss that moment, you'll crash both the future and the past. You can't do that. This member is the moment and obligation of the President of the Assembly to do so. The Management Board shall have the right not to accept that. The Management Board has the right and to make mistakes, like everyone, and sometimes when a mistake is corrected immediately, it makes another decision, sometimes doesn't fix it right now, it's all human, it's the Committee. The assembly, when it votes, has the right to not accept. I don't have a problem, who doesn't know how to lose, doesn't deserve to win. Anyone who can't behave stately shouldn't be in a place in the country. But the results are accepted. What the Assembly votes, it will be valid. Do I insist that the Assembly vote this amendment? I don't insist. I believe in the free will of the MPs, as far as the Assembly votes, the president of the assembly will act. This is where the debates are being held, and there you are representatives of the parties. At the moment of the vote, you are the legislator, after which you are a citizen to whom that member, who you voted, refers. That's quite clear. If that is not clear here, how do you think it will be clear to the citizens of Serbia. Just one more addition, Mr. Bradovich, if you don't mind, I know it's been 15 minutes. When I went public in 2003, I mean, maybe no one noticed, and the police were working and responsible people, and they immediately withdrew a statement that threatened the freedom of citizens, but continued the political parties, even those that I founded, to limit themselves from that statement. I don't have a problem with that. I only have a problem with basic decency. I have not read the explanation for which this amendment is rejected. It would be rude to read an explanation that someone points to the President of the Assembly, that he does not need the Constitution to defend the Assembly. I will also find it extremely rude, and legally possible, that someone should give an explanation now why he thinks this amendment should not be accepted. It's much better for people to think, and I'm for football fans, because it's football now, and I'm an older man, and I watched when a ball gets one great footballer, his name was Jusuf Hatunic, and I watched myself see the whole stadium, when he's got the ball, he's "think about it," "think about it." Don't go running to anyone now. Let everyone think carefully and behave accordingly, and I will certainly respect the congregation’s decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28281	Thank you. Zoran Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28282	The proposed amendment is unconstitutional for several reasons. We heard the explanation of the amendment, and in it we heard that the Assembly is the Supreme Authority. The Assembly is the Supreme Authority, but in the system of unity of the government that was valid in Serbia during the rule of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia until 1990. There is the congregation supreme authority, for the executive council she chooses is under her, the congregation can abolish any act of hers, and the congregation is the one who asks everything. In principle, there are neither supreme nor any government. There is a division of power and a mutual relationship between these authorities. And our Constitution in Article 6 says – to whom the legislative authority and constitutional authority belong, that is the National Assembly, to which the executive power belongs, that is the Government and that is, to whom the judicial authority belongs, it is the court of Serbia. That's all the Constitution says about the highest organ. So, we may have problems changing our networked views, but the Assembly is not the Serbian Supreme Authority, because the principle of division of power does not know the Supreme Authority. He knows the bodies between which different interactions are established, in which he seeks to establish weight or counterweight, and that is how it is now modern. There is one belief that the Assembly is the Supreme Authority, that the Assembly is sovereign, which is in England. In England they say -- parliament is sovereign, but you know why, because the English don't have a constitution, because parliament can make any decision with it, as English theorists say, can abolish the crown, lift the kingdom by the same majority that decides on the addition to the harvest. So, to be clear, Serbia has no supreme authority. In Serbia, the Assembly is not the highest authority of government, it is the most superior body of government, in that it adopts laws that bind all citizens, but the idea of the Assembly, as the Supreme Authority, is based on the relapses of the system of unity of government that was in force until 1990 and has no foothold in the ruling constitutional order of Serbia, and would not have a foothold in any law on democracy. Secondly, according to the proposed amendment, one category of officials, all those who do not work in the National Assembly and those who do not work in the service of the president, the basis would be determined by the Act of the Assembly. It is the Assembly that would establish the basis of the Budget Law for all, but there are two categories that do not go into that order. These are officials who work in the service of the Assembly and officials who work with the President of the Republic. If I could perhaps understand that it defends the honor of the Parliament, and I am confident that this amendment does not defend itself, then I do not understand why it defends the honor of the President of the Republic. In any case, officials work in the government, officials work in the Supreme and other courts of Serbia, officials work in the Constitutional Court, officials work with the President of the Republic, officials work here. Why is it that for all categories of officials the law lays the basis for the act of this assembly, the Budget Law. That's what the bill says. Where is the idea to determine for congregation officials and officials in the Presidency of the Republic by means of an act of the Administrative Committee? I immediately draw attention to flagrant unconstitutionalness. The position of one staff member cannot be regulated by the Budget Law, and the position of another sublegal act, because the act of the Administrative Board does not have the power of the law, it is a sublegal act. We would have a situation if 70 to 80% of Serbian officials were governed by law and other sublaws. It is exactly the same as that in this law we wrote that the position of government officials is determined by a government regulation, not by law. It's the first unconstitutional thing. The second is a completely wrong understanding of the principle that the National Assembly regulates its work and organization. That's right. There's a Parliament decision. This means that no one in the Assembly can impose how they will be organised, when they will work, what internal units they will have, how they will be organised with regard to the committee, etc. That's where she's on her own. Please, look, according to the Constitution of Serbia, the same goes for the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court shall regulate its organisation, Article 131 paragraph 2. The same is true of the Government, and it arranges its services, and the same applies to the President of the Republic. Four bodies have the right to self-organize behavior in institutions. Does that mean that all four organs need to determine their salaries? Does that mean that the Constitutional Court should sit in a general session and determine the salaries of its officials and say, "I do not recognise the law, the law does not apply to me, for what the Assembly has adopted is valid, my officials are the most important, my officials are the most impediments." Everyone's clerks are the most important. That's quite clear. That doesn't have to prove it. You can't convince anyone in the government, or maybe you can, that his clerk doesn't matter to him, like you can't convince anyone here in the Assembly that he's irrelevant to any member of the Assembly. But please, there is a unity of the state, a unity of the official systems, there is a unity of regulation of a legal situation. One category of officials cannot, on behalf of the defence of parliamentaryism, rise without any legal explanation in relation to another category of officials. I'm telling you, in that case, it doesn't stop the Constitutional Court from saying if the Assembly finds its right to self-organize that it determines what the basics of an officer are, let's do it for the Supreme Court. Then the government brings in the Regulation, so for government officials, it sets out a basis. What do we get by that? We get cleavage, we get disunity of the state. We're getting something that's much more dangerous than falsely understood parliamentaryism. This provision, which is contained in the amendment and is not an authentic provision, is a provision that has been taken over from the existing Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. This law has been the basis for all but the Assembly and the Office of the President of the Republic for a year before the assessment of constitutionality, since it is thought that, under the applicable law, I should remind myself, it is the basis for all others, except for the Assembly and the Service of the President of the Republic, which includes, of course, MPs, the Government. The basis for others, including officials, shall be determined by the Administrative Board. Then, simply, the Constitutional Court says, according to the Constitution of Serbia, and we come to the third instability of this member, the system of working relations is governed by the Republic of Serbia, the system of working relations must be regulated by law. The system of working relations unequivocally raises the question of coefficients and basics. Both questions must be regulated by law in order to comply with Article 72(1) point 4. Serbia's constitution towards which Serbia regulates and provides a system of working relations, and the system means unity and coherence. Why now, from a law that needs to be, I feel free to say, to die by this law, to take over one formulation that is disputed from the viewpoint of the Constitution, and so far, the Constitutional Court has not abolished only because we would lose the basis for paying salaries, dear MPs, only because it has not been abolished. Isolate one category of employees, I don't know why, because they work, so everyone does. How to explain now to government officials that there is a possibility that officials in the National Assembly have a higher foundation and therefore a higher salary than they do. How do you explain this to officials in the Constitutional Court and how do you explain it to officials in the Supreme Court, how? The way officials are valued are jobs, promotion to higher jobs, promotion within the pay grade. There are systems worth the officers. These systems are unique. Within that system, all officials should be evaluated in the congregation service and in all other services, not abstractally, without any reflection on individuals, declaring that one category of officials is more valuable than the other, because it is in accordance with the principle of parlametrism, which has really nothing to do with the principle of parliamentaryism. We heard earlier, the correct presentation of the MPs who submitted the amendment, but please, by which argument the officials in the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court can explain this amendment, and the Supreme Court is the supreme authority in the judicial branch of power. The government is the supreme administrative authority, because it is higher than the ministry, which could explain to other officials that they are less valuable, less valuable and abstracto. Therefore, in the middle there are multiple non-constitutionalities and members, amendments to Article 8 and amendments to Article 41. If the purpose of the amendment is to protect parliamentaryism, as we have heard, please explain to me why it protects the service of the President of the Republic, why it prevents the President of the Republic, as it also has the right to self-organise, according to the Constitution, it is his constitutional right, that it determines its own coefficients and foundations and everything else. Let's break the country then. Let's break the state, let the government determine the coefficients and basics for government officials and ministries, that the President of the Republic determines his. Let's break the budget system and break everything in the name of understanding parliamentaryism as the unity of power. Where would the Assembly take care of the President of the Republic, of the service and of the officials of the President of the Republic? And it's not the Assembly, it's the Administrative Board of Sublaws. There's no rational explanation. If we want to destroy everything, then give it, then anyone who has the right to self-organize, we interpret it the same way, has the right to establish wages. The government determines the basis for its own, the President of the Republic for its own, the Constitutional Court for its own, the Assembly for its own and then that two people do the same work and that they are one across the street. I'm talking about the amendment. I'm speaking to the chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28283	Do not communicate with MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28284	We had a situation where two officials work across the street, two employees just split the street, and one of them had a salary that was 15,000 – 20,000 more than the other. It's a direct break in the unity of the official system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28285	Replica Mr. Markovic, then Verica Radeta by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28286	Thank you. As you know, part of the MPs who want to participate in the debate attends the session in the hall, and part follows through the Internet television system. I haven't, unfortunately, followed Mr. Balinovec's statement that he's professionally and responsibly doing his job. I assume he's given an adequate argument, which I respect. I heard someone wants to break the country. I have health problems, but I'm doing my job. When they told me I was recruited, not to hear one ear, they asked me if I wanted to free myself from the army. I said I didn't want to, so I was in the Air Force doing my job. I hear it well. People don't often understand each other, they hear each other, but they don't understand each other. The obligation is to the President of the Assembly, so I realized the Rules of Procedure, to allow all who propose laws to turn around. I have heard this well, and it is possible today to hear a detailed explanation and thus to discuss it more easily. It is my duty to hear well, and I have done my job, as you would say across the street, so I am also directed to the matter of staff officers in the service of the President of the Republic. In contrast, this amendment and the way I seek to help them make the right decision, and MPs will make their own decision. I've made a clear distinction and there's no need to misinterpret me, I'm speaking complicatedly, that's what many have noticed, Mr. Krasic recently. I don't have any problem being understood by anyone who knows their job. What does it mean to know your job? That means doing something you can't see. When this assembly voted that we had a coat of arms, a flag and an anthem, that wasn't enough. It was meant to make ethlons, because it's different from that coat of arms on the cards, technical details that no one cares about. When it's painted, when it's blindhand, when it's some other technique. It was all supposed to be predicted and done. Now it is possible to open up a site of the National Assembly and look at what you need and exist inside. MPs, taking care of the state interests and unity of the government of the Serbian state, voted for something, but in view of this services, they have to do a number of jobs and these services differ. And that difference is also symbolic, but when you want to preserve unity, then you have to take care of it, and you can't change it, like there's no presidential system in this country, there's no office. As soon as he does, it will be my duty to respect him. The law from which I quoted a member who I propose to be instead of an existing member is a valid law. Of course, if someone tries this pay phone to let me know why the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court isn't doing anything, I apologize and I'll consider it rude, but it's my personal right because I'm well informed. Thanks to Mr. Obradovic's tolerance, I'll only say one more sentence. A lot of people like to talk about what never happened, and I understand that. As I know why I suggested this by taking care of the service of the President of the Republic and the service of the Assembly, because I did this job. I'm from a poor family, my father didn't know any differently, but when we get the money, he knocks down one room, and then the other goes, and now I have a family house with rough walls. In one place is the faucet a meter, on the other by a meter and a half. I don't mind my father. He didn't know the order, but he thought it was enough to raise money, he never took a loan like me, he never went into the bank like I did, but he didn't know. We want to be a state that knows what the order is. When the plumber came to him, he was proud to know 20 trades, and for 18 he had a KV degree. I don't know anything about that. He thought he was ready to work, enough to save money, and when he asks him about the plumber you're going to sink, he says, "about here," that tap. When he asks him how many walls he will build, he says, "about like this," my son will be tall so that he will not strike his head. The house doesn't play like that. Now comes the plumber and says, "I'm sorry, did you plan on making the sink 70 or 85 or 105?" There are different levels of sinks, so compared to when you build a house, you can predict where the taps will be. Otherwise, you don't have to, you can buy a hose later on at the flea shop so it doesn't spray your faucet. Those who have money buys and machines, they don't care where the tap is, the machine washes dishes, but serious people take care of details, because when you plan and guard the unity of the house, it's not enough to have power. In that sense, the Assembly is not the highest level of government because it has the least real power. Only when a country in general is settled will it have a law on the National Assembly, but serious people know that they will have a law on the National Assembly, as they will have a law on ministries, so they know that they will not pass a law on ministries until the law on the National Assembly is passed. When you know that, you plan ahead. Of course, it has been pointed out here by many responsible MPs, a whole series of laws do not have a full constitutional basis. Why? Because it was not the Constitution that made sure that a whole series of categories in the meantime would have to be established and MPs for that to be understood, the Constitutional Court has an understanding, the government has an understanding when proposing such laws, because it knows that MPs make sure that the height at which the Supreme Auditor is to be laid down in advance, and not that we live in a country where you have to audit your business or that you have to lift the gig, and the state doesn't have to. Responsible people in the places where they are concerned. Of course, it is the job of all officers to defend their work and their solutions. No one here is angry, but when you guard the unity of the state, take care of what happened and what happens. I expect everyone will take care of it this time. In case someone doesn't care, so try to break the state, I once again said, I have fought against it all the previous years, and you don't need a place in the country to fight it, but MPs decide after a free will vote, and officials do it and MPs do it because the laws are equal for everyone. Special Services, they'll have to do it in a special way. Once again, I say what's clear, there's no need for responsible people to say something to frame them for false facts. Never has the committee of this congregation set a different base. On the contrary, he was a few months late with a lot of understanding. For the last time, two months ago, he was late with the coordination of the basis for staff of the National Assembly because no one is privileged, and the Assembly takes care of it, and that is why the Assembly is the institution that spent the least money compared to what it did and will therefore, in the future, whether it adopts or does not adopt the amendment or the Assembly to do its work and protect the unity of the country, because it knows the place of the Assembly and the place of the executive and the second part of the executive and the legislative authority, because order must be known, whether people are discussing it or not. If he doesn't do it of course he won't have self-respect, but let me tell you something, we've been watching each other and I've seen a lot of those who live without self-respect, they don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28287	We'll take a five-minute break. After that, the Verse of Radeta has an amendment, then Milos Aligrudic. [[After breaks – 13,40]] We can keep working. According to the amendment, Mrs. Verica Radeta answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this morning when we've been talking about this law on the draft law in particular, I've reported several times, and I've really turned my attention to the proposal's representative to try and talk about this, first of all as lawyers, because mostly the lawyers reported that they were talking about this law. Of course, all the MPs and those who are not our colleagues can do so, and I prayed that they would not be lectured to the MPs here, and I did not want to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, but I am now asking my colleague, Mr Obradovic, or at least to tell you that I am in your position to take care of myself in a different way about applying the Rules of Procedure. I understand that Mr Balinovac, as a representative of the promoters here, I'm sure he well-intentioned wants to explain the government's proposal, but I don't know why, from time to time, you have the need to caricate something proposed by the amendment or something when one of the MPs brings out. Now I will tell you why you are wrong and why you do not have a good theory about the division of power in Serbia. You are trying this, I am quite certain for some other reasons, in advance here to talk, because when it comes to Article 41 and Article 8 of your proposal stands – the basis is unique and is determined for each budget year by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Predrag Markovic's proposal is to add another member to the ministry of the president of the Republic and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the committee responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is set up. You have explained this here, and all along you have been trying to convince someone who has not read this proposal that the amendment has completely ignored this basic which is unique and which is determined for the financial year by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. You have to accept that because it's in the amendment. It's just a second attitude to continue and your story about how in this way some groups of officials would be specially singled out, if the proposal were unconstitutional, is completely unargumented. According to what you've been saying here, one logical conclusion would be that everything has to be confused by the law and that sublegal acts in our legal system don't exist and that they shouldn't exist. You can't do the way you tried, with some demeaning to talk about the Administrative Committee in this House, Mr. Balinovac, that someone is going to put in this position or that kind of position this or that group of officials, because that's simply not true. You left a member of the 15th bill with the possibility of abuse and various salaries, and I told you about it when we talked about the amendment to Article 15. So, through the coefficients, you'll be setting up salaries there for some special advisors, special commissions, and we talked about it before noon, when this amendment was on the agenda. So, you said, or you talked about some relics of the past, when it comes to the division of power in Serbia, and I remind you that we know that there is a division of power in Serbia, that there is legislative, executive and judicial authority, and we know that these are equal branches of government, but we also know that the bearer of the highest national sovereignty is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we also know that the National Assembly is choosing executive power, we also know that the National Assembly chooses the highest holders of the highest functions of the judiciary, so I would say, Mr Balinovac, that in that equality, the National Assembly is a little more equal. In that sense, you don't have to turn your head or you can if you want, but I'm telling you that this is like this, you've tried to present it all quite differently here, because the SRS has made it clear that when writing a new constitution, it won't give up on our proposal that the President of the Republic is elected in the National Assembly, according to these elections that I've been talking about, the executive authority, the highest functions of the judicial, or judicial authority and the President of the Republic, as executive authority. It is clear to me why you said so, but I am for this very reason, not to defend Predrag Markovic, because he can defend himself well, I simply wanted to say that your arguments are not good, in fact they are not arguments, that your argument and your bill is unconstitutional, and that Mr Predrag Markovic's amendment is not unconstitutional, and you know well, the MPs all know that in this House there has been a lot of talk about the special budget of the Assembly, about the special judiciary budget, etc. You are trying to tell a completely different story, and at one point you say to the MPs, to get the impression that the salaries of the MPs are being spoken of, not for the sake of the public, I must say, and I want to say that here it is exclusively about the salaries of the civil servants, the tenants, and that it is necessary to accept this amendment, not to endanger the essence of the law, that acceptance of the amendments will not lead to an unequal position of the officials, that no group of officials will be able to separate from this first position of Article 41, where the basis is unique, is determined for each budget year by law on the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, the amendment wanted to achieve what is essential, which is, I repeat, in the system of equality of three branches of government in Serbia, that this little higher equality, as I would say, is a slightly more equality of the National Assembly, that it must be applied both in this law and in any other law and regulation, because Mr Balinovac, this is a legislative authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28290	Zoran Krasic, Paja Momchilov. You've got less than seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28291	Mr Markovic's amendment to Articles 8 and 41, however, represents the whole and I could say the view of Mr Markovic on these issues of determining the basis for salaries, specifically when it comes to a member of the 41st tenant, and when it comes to Article 8, then it is about civil servants. However, I can understand that each one represents its own position, but when it is represented, it must be kept in mind that there is a Constitution and a legal system of this state. It is good that Mr Markovic, and we have just heard that personal experience has led to some conclusions, and then the idea has been created to submit one such amendment that you see and that MPs themselves support, is not about paying MPs, that those from the DS who attack know what it is. The question now arises in this discussion where is the legislative authority of the Republic of Serbia? Should he be with the government's curtsy secretaries or finance agencies, whether the executive power should account for the National Assembly to shake here when the ministers, the Prime Minister and all those who need to explain the bill's proposal or to defend some of their reports that have been sent to the National Assembly or the MPs should be devoid of having one story in the hallway when they communicate with each other, and it doesn't even matter who is from which parties and express some consent, and then there should be some to withdraw, some to criticize, and while voting one goes, the others remain to vote something, and even more dissatisfaction with those who voted. I have no intention of demeaning anyone, of commenting on who he's talking to in this room, in the hallway, etc. The National Assembly must fight for what the Constitution guarantees. There's been this problem for a long time where executive power puts under the legislator. Mr Markovic tried to draw attention to these amendments to determine the basis for the salaries of a specific member of the 41st installer should be in charge of these matters of the National Assembly's competent board, not to be in the jurisdiction of the one who projects the budget, and again forcefully to vote. Let me remind you, Mr. Markovic was deceived in the adoption of the Budget Law. On behalf of the Committee of the National Assembly and on behalf of the parliamentary groups, he submitted several amendments formally rejected, and it was promised otherwise to address the problem of the obvious failure when the draft budget law was drawn up. Let me remind you, as far as RIK is concerned, the government has forgotten that there is a state body. Isn't that right, Mr. Balinian? When I adopted the budget for this year, to remind you, it was, and then different promises came about something that should mean the law. There is no higher and more significant authority in the Republic of Serbia than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution doesn't know him. I have to say, he doesn't even know the theory. The highest degree of democracy and the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is being achieved in the National Assembly, and the fact that for 15 years someone has been trying to devalue the role of the MP, the importance of the National Assembly, is one system that goes against the foundations of statehood in the Republic of Serbia. With this amendment, the committee in charge determines the basis for the salaries of deputies working in the National Assembly, who work in the presidency building. I can't say right now exactly what that number is, whether it's 200, 100 people, etc., anyway, it doesn't matter, but the right to appoint a base for 250 people, to be that number, to endanger the entire system as someone is saying... (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: and to break the state.) That doesn't stand. There is also a political solution when this amendment is adopted. Of course, the majority of the government’s support will take into account when determining the basis for not having to do with what is stated here, as some theoretical possibility that someone will determine the undersigned in the National Assembly a base of 200,000 dinars, so the coefficient will turn out to be an official in the National Assembly with five million salaries. That's absolutely impossible. All those who have the majority, who support the government, are trying to follow the policy. This is where it gets into the foundations. Why? Disturbing the executive government of its own National Assembly. When there is talk of the Constitution then we will explain to you that the highest degree of democracy is the choice of the president of the Republic in the National Assembly, not what the non-governmental sector through various NGOs and free shooters, experts with jury accounts from abroad teach us – that citizens are directly to choose. That's what we're going to talk about when it comes to the agenda. We're going to have a variant of the Constitution if it comes. Refusing this amendment, the legislator gives a clear message. You are the hostages of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you have to do what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded that you can interfere and therefore, Markovic said nicely, and someone did not want to understand it, has not changed the Law on the Ministry, and here for four days I have been whineing that Vuko, he is the minister, he is with Montenegro signing some agreements. That's what the government thinks by talking about legality and constitutionality, about legality, about legitimacy? First-place regulations - state-of-the-art. Is that a state-of-the-art? You give them 45 days, though it's normally 40.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28292	Mr. Momchilov, time's up for the MP's group. In the word of the amendment, Milos Aligrudic called, at 14.00 we will take a break, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28293	I don't think we all got a good idea here when it comes to this amendment, although I'm surprised if we don't understand it, and when it comes to how the text of the bill in the act that wants to be changed by amendment is defended. Of course, the question is how do we want to hear the arguments that are being made and whether we are independent of what we hear? So, I would like to be extremely well-intentioned both according to the amendment's proposer and the proposing representative who defended a part of the text of the law that was practically attacked by this amendment. So, no doubt, the very good intentions of the amendment promoter and the good motives when this amendment was proposed. It is clear that it wanted to show itself and the specificity of the National Assembly, as the only legislative authority in the country, from which the law and the Constitution of this country truly produce the whole order. But I'm going to remind you of one circumstance that we should think about before we finally judge who's right here. So, this assembly has the power to bring in the Constitution of the State, and this Constitution has been sorting out the system since the beginning. In the Constitution we define ourselves as something that in science could be called a system of unity or division of power, although both of these systems do not exist in pure form, there is always a certain mixture. So it's impossible to imagine these two systems in the same form. What the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is still in force for, I hope, is a system of division of power. What was meant to be said is that the Serbian Parliament, by the procedure provided for by the Constitution, is the Constitution itself, simply by accepting a system of division of powers, regardless of what is essentially a whole system. It recognises to certain state bodies one, on the one hand, the antagonist relationship towards itself, and, on the other hand, the partnership relationship, in the same way, in the same operation, in the same procedure, recognising the existence of, as executive authorities, the President of the Republic, on the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which formally emerges from Parliament and is certainly responsible for its work, but with a number of functions in the area of the executive authority, which are separate from parliament and are not directly controlled by the conduct of these affairs, but only the responsibilities of the bearer of the conduct of these affairs in this Parliament, through the form, through the way provided for by the Constitution itself and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, I think that all these bodies, counting the Constitutional Court as a special constitutional category, are extremely significant and are not in relation to authority and subordination, essentially, in a system that works, but rather in relation to some kind of mutual correlation, rather than subordination in state affairs. So, when we edit a part of that system, let's say by editing the salaries of civil servants, in that sense, I believe that the proposing representative was mostly right. It should be arranged as a single system, regardless of where these state-owned deputies are employed, whether they are in the Serbian presidency, the Serbian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Constitutional Court, whether they are in the ministries as state bodies or some other services that will, in this case, be appropriated to the state authority, i.e. The Ministry. It's important that we be unique in that system. I'm not saying, nor would I claim to be a mess, but in any case, I think this is an ideal when it comes to a system of division of powers that should be pursued. As far as it can be done, we'll see. So I think this is a good solution. I really accept and think that Mr. Markovic, as an amendment promoter, was absolutely right, should indeed distinguish our institutions foreseen by the Constitution, the kind of jobs and the way these jobs are done in different parts of the system. I think that this law or maybe some other amendment to this same law, maybe some other law, we could do it in a more subtle way, so just by law, not to go down to the level of the sublegal act, to recognize these fine differences that we're talking about. So, I'm not against it at all, I'm even into it, but it can be recognised in another way by law, to make that difference, to make that difference there in the law that this difference definitely exists between these organs and that this job is one act, one law solved in this National Assembly. However, we did not get such an amendment, but we got an amendment that wants to confirm something that is clear and familiar without that confirmation, which is that the Serbian Parliament has the right to its self-organization and it was not disputed. And if this amendment wanted to confirm it, I just think it's the wrong direction to confirm it. I'm going to give you a little example, and that's what I'm going to end up with, because all the arguments here have been heard, and I respect each of them equally, so that someone doesn't get it wrong, but I'm going to try to give another little imagery, to see what it's meant when the proposing officer thought that this was, far away, I didn't understand, breaking down the state or I don't know what, but that there was some disunity in the system itself. We in the National Assembly have officials working as officials of the National Assembly, but in the same building physically with us share this air and those officers who are under direct authority of the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the case with a rolling stock, with women and men who are waiters, who serve here, etc. So, don't let the discussion go to that side that anyone thinks the amendment promoter wanted to favor others in relation to them, or that he wanted to put these others in a subordinate position. I don't think, in that sense, we should talk about this, but in principle. So, is it possible for one of these officials, and we're all in the same building, one system of pay-determining, even if it was completely identical in terms of height, doesn't matter the height of the salary, and that these others will be determined another way in which, even if agreedly, they will achieve the same profit. I take the assumption that there's no difference in profit, but that profit is exactly the same, which I hope would be the case. So, I have no doubt about it at all, nor would I ever accuse anyone of intending to put people in a subordinate or superior position in that sense. I mean, it's one of my beliefs, and I've already expressed my appreciation for the motives of the applicant of the amendment, when it comes to what was meant to be achieved, I think that a better solution is provided for in the text of the bill's proposal, for many reasons that the proposing's representative stated when it comes to respecting the principles of constitutionality and unity of the system, so I don't think it's necessary to be malciful when it comes to one or another solution, but to be objective, to imagine that these salaries would be the same, but just imagine that the basis for which it comes to that salary is not the same, and that it's about people who share the same air, the same space in one building. So, of course, self-determining parliament and parliament's self-determination is proven not in this way but in other methods. Therefore, I think that, in this case, the proposing representative in his argument was right when he did not accept this amendment. In doing so, I would like to stress that this assembly, which I said at the very beginning, is a property, how to bring the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so as to pass other laws in this area as well. I repeat, I am sorry that the amendment did not go in the other direction, with the same aim and effect, to make that fine distinction, if there is, and I cannot trust anything other than the President of the Assembly, as the promoter of this amendment, that this difference certainly exists between those categories of officials and that it finds its place exactly in the law itself, so that it is recognised as a kind of beauty of opportunity that exists, in a series of civil servants that exist in this country, that it is resolved here by law and that we go further. I think it's more of a misunderstanding here, when it comes to the way this issue is being arranged, than something else, so I wanted to return this story to this level and express my opinion on the amendment itself, that is. the manner in which the proposer's representative wanted to challenge the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28294	According to the amendment, Rajko Baralic reported, and before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28295	I'm sorry. Wrong interpretation, that's a reason. I thank you, too, Mr. Aligrudic and everyone who used the argument when we discussed this, because it's important that we discuss it here. I don't like it when people fight, nothing gets settled in a fight, but when they argue, it's important. There's only one thing I'm going to point out, because I spoke in person, I apologize to everyone. When I was talking about personal experience and talking about my family, I was talking about how things have been hard to fix through generations. That should also be taken into account when it is wrong. We are not an ideal state and our citizens know it well. The obligation is to take care of the system. So I realized the discussions and I thank you, I mean, Mr Balinovac just passed on to me, it was an apology, if I understood correctly, the words were about projections, if something had happened, it would have been a breakdown of unity. I mean, I accept that I've misread it, and I also have to make sure that someone keeps an eye on the system law, that something doesn't happen. But people who have done one job and know it's happening, they have to take care of symbolism. This is all about symbolism. Mr. Aligrudić said nicely, surely there is no difference between the basics for officials' salaries, nor will they now. It is certain that there will always be inadequately rewarded officials, whether they work at customs, whether they work with you in the Secretariat, in the service of the President of the Republic or here, but it is symbolic, so that you know how you work. I have left 35 employees in the service of the President of the Republic. I believe very high-quality from what they did. One job they didn't know how to do, and that's when the pogrom broke out in Kosovo on March 17th 2004, they didn't know how the president was going to Kosovo, because it's never happened to them since they were in service, let alone since 1999. They didn't know. They thought it was symbolic, they thought it was writing a letter, so they asked for permission from either the state or UNMIK. No, if you are the President of the Republic you send a notice when you arrive, and then UNMIK answers you – in that case it is necessary that there are no long pipes in your escort, and then your service negotiates late at night and there is no more or less money for it, but symbolically it is known, when you are the President of the State, you go wherever you will, when you are President of the Assembly and Prime Minister, you go wherever you want. Of course there are exceptions. When you try to step from one of these functions into a building, they tell you – I'm sorry, there's a general law that's special here, compared to the general principles of security here we have a special principle that says: you can't enter this room without a white coat or you can't enter at all if you're not employed, these are exceptions. Those exceptions confirm the general rule. (President: Time.) ) Thank you for your tolerance, I'll ask for just a little more tolerance, I think it's important for everyone. Thank you. (President: here you go. ) In contrast, symbolism is at stake here. I highly respect that, and I have said that several times, the promoter who takes care of the system. I remind you, it's my job and it's my job for people here to take care of the symbolism, so I reminded you all that you didn't take care of the symbolism, which you would now sing to the anthem. What flag would you raise? Serbian citizens must have that symbolism. That's why we're talking about ID today, because symbolically it's a little awkward, here it is, I know it by heart, so I don't wear glasses, here's my ID card. I'm a citizen of the SFRY. You know what that looks like. That looks like the commentator who said – last time we played with Argentina we fell into the quarterfinal after the draw. Never SRJ, let alone SCG played with Argentina. Never. Until people learn to say it, that's why it symbolically serves this amendment. The salaries will certainly be the same, but symbolically, for the National Assembly, for the service of the President of the Republic, it must symbolically be confirmed by the Administrative Committee. It's a key symbolism. That's all we're talking about here. Secondly, I wasn't fooled, Mr. Krasic, but I immediately checked it out. Of course, he has the right to make mistakes. Of course, compared to that, she just has to correct her mistakes when she gets distracted. It's fixed and it's possible, because for this country it's the symbolism that I keep talking about. These four S. First is stability. I fully understand your fear, what would happen if it did, because it would endanger the stability of the single system of division of power. There is a hierarchy in that section that is not a hierarchy of power. The second S is solidarity. We can have each other's understanding, as you now have for me, which I speak for more than three minutes, because I often have understanding for others, that people say what they think is important, at some point, it's not enough a Rules of Procedure that limits exactly to three or five or 15 minutes. The third S are standards. I thank you for insisting and respecting the standards. The fourth is self-respect. In this context, this is solidarity to make sure that compensation is made up and costs are compensated, RIK has the money at its disposal and now, the consequences of this suffers and Mr Balinovac, not only the other members. So these are mistakes. Why? Because there's so much we have to do at the same time. That's why these people sit up late in the night here and it's not worth it to call on the Labour Act, we're often warned by Mr. Momchilov, he says – excuse me, you know what time it is. We know we have to do more than we can. But when it comes to tolerance, in this solidarity I have to draw everyone's attention, at the same time thanks to tolerance and to you, they're not tolerated people who are weak, they're people who are strong. When a child is weak, it shouts out loud. There's no way he can distract how threatened he is. Strong people can tolerate to a certain extent. Then they say he can't do it anymore. That goes for institutions, too. There is no division of the ruling and unruly. This is a question of why the Assembly is the highest in power-sharing because it brings the basis, which is why the sub-premation is. But she's made up of individually weak people. Every MP here represents no one else, although he has arrived through parties, but citizens. Citizens are weak compared to the state. That's why symbolic exceptions have to be introduced, to keep the citizens safe. At the same time, all of us together, all of us institutions, we're building a state and at the same time building protection from that state. Otherwise, we get contradictory demands where you say - the state has to protect the individual, and you haven't made it possible to protect it yet, so there are often misunderstandings and we often argue here late at night about these misunderstandings. When it's your job to protect individuals or that institution, you have to do it tolerantly, responsibly, but there's no deviation. That's why I made it clear that the President of the Assembly can't withdraw this amendment, because it's in the description of his job that he can do anything, but he can't do it. As I have acted in previous situations whether I am a citizen or I have served as President of the Republic, there has been a measure where I say I am going there now, it is now my job to submit this amendment, and your job is to protect the system, not exceptions. I respect what you're doing, but I'm asking you, as a man of tolerance, for your due respect for what these people are doing here and what we're doing, because it's the only way we can agree on each other and build a responsible state, which is in everyone's interest, so we're going to continue to argue in it. This isn't a job that's breaking up right now. It's not just a government job and one representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28296	Time, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28297	Thank you so much again for your tolerance, thank you all for the understanding you've had of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28298	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Mr Krasic has the suggestion that S-sanction is, but in the spirit of tolerance spoken of by Mr Markovic, we will not apply sanctions to the abuses of the Rules of Procedure. We'll take a break by 3:10. The first after break is Rajko Baralic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28299	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our afternoon work. I'll let you know right away that we'll be working until the end of that agenda that's at 6:00 p.m. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28300	Mr. Chairman, because of a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, I just received information and I want to make it public. It's a press release that he says -- yesterday during posters of the democratic bloc activists, there was an incident in the centre of Kovin. The activists of the democratic bloc, Aleksandar Arangelovic, Daniel Ilijasev and Vukasin Davidovic, were physically attacked by Serbian Radical Party MPs Srdja Komazec from Nova Pazova, Vitomir Plužarevic from Vrdnik and Lazar Cavic from Pećinac. A major incident was prevented by police intervention. With this, democratic bloc activists took data, and radicals called for immunity. The Democratic bloc strongly condemns the violent behaviour and impudence of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, who show their haughtiness and outside the Assembly, instead of working for the benefit of citizens from whom they have been given a mandate, use their powers and use them to harass political insinuators by travelling through Serbia. I don't know if this was an evasive memory of the '90s. or prepare for, as they say, taking over power, so let's see what we'll experience when it's taken over, but in any case this is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because the MP represents not only the party and the voters who elected it, but also the National Assembly, both in the Assembly and outside it. The National Assembly should strongly condemn such actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28301	That wasn't the '90s. It's more like 2000. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, about the amendment to Article 41.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28302	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Balinovac, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since it was a pause to say that the debate is under way in particular on the law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, and to discuss the amendment to Article 41, which was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. It would have been better if I had my word in the morning when, with various aspects, the proponent and Mr Balinovac himself on behalf of the government and colleagues on behalf of their parliamentary groups, when they crossed arguments here on this subject, but it's not too late now either. I spoke on the Administrative Committee and on the Finance Committee about this and some other solutions from the law, as well as the amendment itself. What's out of the ordinary here? Predrag Markovic, a National MP, has the right like all other MPs, although he is the president of the National Assembly, to submit amendments to the Rules of Procedure for certain solutions in the draft legislative acts, and that is not disputed. For me, as a member of parliament who sees more than the MP and the chairman of parliament, it would be normal for this matter to be agreed before we have opened the debate in principle and that this amendment is not because, you will agree, it is not exactly the usual way for Parliament's president to try to change the legislative proposal that came from the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially because the president of parliament is in a parliamentary group that supports the government's majority. That's all so people know what I'm talking about here. The amendment to Article 8 and the amendment to the 41st National MP Predrag Markovic tried in a different way to settle the issue of basics that serve to calculate earnings, i.e. to pay state tenants and officials. I remind myself that on several occasions in various legal projects and on other occasions I have tried to explain that it is important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as an institution that has the right to self-organise under the Constitution adopts a law on the National Assembly to prevent it or, let me say, to ease the supremacy of the executive authority over the legislative one, although of course it does not say anything, but in practice, you will agree with the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, there is a compromise and it is looking at several levels and it is not my intention today to elaborate. My position on this is known, as is the position of the SPS and the parliamentary group in which I speak now. The National Assembly should have law on the National Assembly. National MPs who have the original legitimacy because they were elected by citizens should be able to overcome party narrowness, overcome political calculations and be able to step forward and pass legislation on the National Assembly. As long as there's no one else against whom I don't mind, and those others are of the executive authority, they will edit our mutual relations. Who is unable to regulate mutual relations based on original law, and it is viewed as right to self-organize the National Assembly, will always consider the head of the minister or minister, so the ones we choose here. I'm talking to myself here, and I'm talking to you first and foremost my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, because this is a question that concerns only us. It's not about anyone else. In an emergency or regular session, according to procedures, with signatures or with 126 on the agenda, we can always put this issue on the agenda, just we can't. Our heart is like a rabbit, so when it comes to this sort of thing, it's completely unnecessary, because it's causing a lot of damage. If we had passed this law, we would not have this dilemma today, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should have its own budget, it should have the possibility and the right, and it belongs to it, to regulate relations in the way that all normal parliaments in the world do. It's about that. With regard to the second issue of this fundamental problem, I would like to say, I prayed to the Administrative Committee, if it is possible for me to get the current review of employees' earnings in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from people who do the most important jobs, technical jobs, the maintenance of hygiene, copiers and some others to state advisors, how much money or wages they have today and how much we would have if we adopted this law today and applied it because it is very important. In order for me to be able to make decisions and that kind, among other things, I should have those elements that I can compare and then say whether it's better for these people, whether we are getting a service that is motivated to work, whether that service can be expected to meet the needs that Parliament has in an appropriate way, which are very complicated tasks, technical, political, professional and so on. In these few years, I have had the opportunity to analyze daily what employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do, somewhat less than in some other bodies, namely, I want to say another thing, it is a painful job, a job that is usually not related to the knowledge of how it works tomorrow, that it is a job that probably implies that they adapt to other people's habits, to other people's needs, that in one way that is not common to other collectives, meet the requirements, to each of us, to committees, to the Assembly itself, and so on. As far as I'm aware, the lowest profit today in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia is 9,000 dinars or it would be 9,000 dinars if this law was passed. Of course, there's a lot of people who don't have any jobs, so someone might say, there's a lot of people on the labour market who don't have any jobs, so there's that nine thousand more than those who don't have any. It could be an argument, but I put such an argument in the domain of demagogy. So, when you've already defined yourself to hire someone, then that employment needs to be paid in a dignified way, that someone who's employed here and who's doing the most elementary and the lowest jobs has the right to meet the demands his family has. Then we can expect these people to do jobs here in the way that would be normal, because the parliament of one state is one important place, the most important possible place in the country, and everything in that place in technical, political, economic, professional and any other sense should suit that purpose. Therefore, if it were possible, not to enter into the principle of this unity, and it does not apply to the unity of the government, as someone here has tried to comment, it is already the principle of unity of the system, and yet I would like the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to have certain powers when they are employed. It can't hurt, and as it was in that commercial, it could mean a lot, it could mean their confidence, their safety, and I think it would be completely normal. For me, it's not normal for a part of the employees of the National Assembly building, I speak in technical terms, some are in the Administration, such as the restaurant staff, drivers, these others are employed here, and now we have this new problem of taking over or compensating the entire space in a legal-technical sense relating to the former SCG parliament. I advocate that, in a human and dignified manner, issues be resolved both at the same time and at the same time as possible, and I advocate that a moment be used for the committees to get, just one committee, one secretary, this is now an opportunity, if we now take over one number of people from the federal parliament, to increase the number of professional advisors and those people who can help to work more efficiently and better, if we are thus establishing a new service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then it does not cost much at all. If it's just taking over and hoarding to get someone to just get paid, then we haven't achieved a proper goal. So, once again, returning to the amendment, does not slow down the arguments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and represented here by Mr Balinovac, and the good intentions of the President of the National Assembly, in this case MP Predrag Markovic, who tried to isolate this in another way, so I am just talking to you, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues, to reach out and pass a law on the National Assembly, because we do not have to wait for the Constitution. This Constitution gives us a complete opportunity to do it the way we think we should and when a new constitution is adopted, let that thing just adapt, because it doesn't make any sense from beekeeping society to any other action, everyone has their statutes, their own regulations, and this is the parliament of a single state. We are originally representatives of the people's will in percentages of how we have received trust and we should not take any of the views on this matter. We had a great proposal here, colleague Verica Radeta was the chairman of a committee whose members I was and four other MPs from this House and this House we proposed a great bill on the National Assembly, for reasons which are totally foreign, not party, above all, when it comes to DS, we don't have this law today, and I also address them to overcome what they did and to come and agree, to pass a law on the National Assembly, because we don't act seriously with others. Who cannot regulate the rules by which he should act alone loses his moral right in a certain sense, although it is governed by the Constitution and the law to determine the rights and conduct of ten million people of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28303	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28304	A colleague here spoke to the Rules of Procedure earlier and said he wanted to make a press release for this speaker. I've been watching, I know I know the Rules of Procedure well, and I'm looking for a provision where MPs are speaking to the public in this way to send statements from here, and I haven't seen it. In the meantime, I went through "Blic" and then I realized why my colleague came out here to criticise the MPs who participate in the campaign of his party colleagues on the ground for these local elections, which is perfectly normal and legitimate, and which is one of the tasks of the MPs, therefore, that on the ground in the people who sent him to this assembly he continues to insist and constantly propagate his party's programme. Of course, at this job, there are a good number of SRS MPs these days and in Kovin, Kula, Raznja, Užica and will do so until the election. It is not a problem when it comes to MPs, but it is a problem when ministers do so through the means of citizens, when they spend their working hours, instead of sitting in parliament or government or somewhere outside the government building, where ministers should be, instead, walking around Serbia, carrying out campaigns, pointing fingers at someone, telling citizens, vote for this one, this one is ours, which he did last night in Ražnja Mladjan Dinkic, and ten meters away from him with someone else who also points to Vela Ilic, who promises towers and cities, lie, deceive. Of course, citizens don't believe it anymore, and they won't get away with it, as the story we just heard about someone beating someone. First, I don't know how I wrote it, representatives of the democratic bloc in Covin. Someone attacked representatives of the democratic bloc in Kovin. I really didn't hear that there is such a block in Kovin or anywhere else, but you have the right to say what you think and I don't dispute it for you, but I said, in the meantime I read "Blic" and "Blic" the new Deputy Prime Minister, this government, Kostunica-Dulic, and that other part of the government, that Mrs. Dulic, says she has three tasks as Deputy Prime Minister. The first is the fight against the SRS. The second is the unification of so-called democratic forces. Third, if she has time, the Constitution. It is a task put in front of itself by Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic and of course those who support her come out completely logically with a press release for this speaker. I expect that now other parliamentary groups who voted for the government, Kostunica-Dulic, will come out with similar press releases, but I will now do a little about the amendment of counterpart Zlatan Jovanovic, who is an MP from Bajina Basta and who has been very engaged in the election campaign in Uzic, because that is where the president of the municipality is elected. If there is something about this colleague, some press release from Užica I tell him – Zlatan Jovanovic is there today, Stevovic is just waiting to finish the amendments, going to join so that he has a list of MPs from the district. In Article 48. The draft law stands in the third position – on the addition, and the title above the member – is the Appendix for the results of the work. All right, yours, Mr. Balinovac, the headlines sometimes come up, so let's remind ourselves of what's going on in this article. So, in the third point, you say, "A supplement for the results achieved and its height is decided by the Head of State, on a proposal he makes, following talks with the person directly assumed by the deputy, the head of the internal unit in which the employer works." So first, this is too messed up. Secondly, it is completely unnecessary in the law to stress that the one who will give someone an addendum to the result of the work, that he will talk to this or that. Whether he will talk to his colleague, his direct manager, whether he will personally follow his work, learn from some fifth hand, whether on the basis of the concrete results of the work that stands in the law, it is simply excessive and we think that this should be deleted and that these words "after the conversation with the person directly assumed by the tenant" should absolutely be deleted from this Article 48. We haven't touched the essence of this article at all. We don't mind, on the contrary, giving an appropriate addition for the results achieved. Of course, the manager is responsible for what kind of supplement, to whom, when and how he will and of course respond again to his manager if he does not comply with the law and with the actual results of his work. Indeed, it is absolutely unnecessary to describe in a member of the law how this controller will obtain such information. I really haven't seen anyone say in any law that stands "on a proposal that he makes after talking to a person who is directly assumed". Because that means that this person who's directly assumed can say anything negative, but it's important that this person conducts a conversation and gives this person an addition? You know, if you wanted to describe it that way, then you needed one read article 48, so one read with all the details to make it clearer. So, I need this deleted and I expect that as a serious representative of the promoter, Mr. Balinovac, you will accept this because the amendment is both serious and meaningful and contributes to improving the text of the law. Although you, I suppose, or the government says - the amendment is not accepted, here's why. Direct executives are certainly the ones who have the best insight into the work of the tenants they are handling. It's not disputed, but let them evaluate them and let them give them what the manager's manager should do. I guess there would be as many executives as possible, that there would be less of those tenants who could possibly be given that supplement for the results of the work. Next you say, "Therefore is the bill and the obligation for the managers of internal units (sectors or secretariats, e.g.) They propose to the tenants who will receive an addendum to the results achieved after talks with the executives of the narrow interior units, i.e. with direct managers." This is not the first time that when we get the government's opinion, we get an opinion that really means nothing and that in no letter is different from what is already written in the bill. If we write, submit the amendment and go out here to read the reasons of the Zlatan amendment, it says: "The head of the internal unit is responsible for monitoring the results of the work and it is not necessary to prescribe by law who he will talk to in order to conclude" and by analogy of the Government, I should read this and say more - so I suggest that the amendment be accepted. No, but we explain the amendment to the wider and concrete examples, and we are really trying to convince the government's representative or representatives of the assembly majority to vote for this amendment in the voting day. We fully logically expect that if the Government doesn't accept our amendment, because it wouldn't be quite normal for you to accept each other, because then you wouldn't be different from us, or us from you, and we are, of course, very different from everyone else in this House and we're proud of it, but when you don't accept that or any amendment, then we really expect some new argument, something that isn't already contained in the very article that the amendment has been submitted to. This is just such an instruction for the future, if you're still in a position to present some laws on behalf of the government here, because now after this summer's break there's probably an election campaign coming, I don't think we're going to be doing any more of this work in this system of things, but until then do something good, accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28305	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yes, Zoran Balinovac, Secretary of Law of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28306	Mr. Chairman, while I was listening to Prophet Veronica Radet, I just thought of a single thought from a German lawyer named Jering. Besides, he said a lot. He said form is a sworn enemy of self-will. So that form is a sworn enemy of self-will where you prescribe form has no will. That's what Rudolph von Jering said who, by my humble belief, is the greatest lawyer I've ever met through literature. That's exactly what this is about. There must be some respect for the form. You have in the government of Serbia and in other bodies sectors that have 500, 600 employees. Now this would practically mean that the sector manager, in this particular case the assistant, proposes an assessment for each of these 500, 600 employees. For all 500 or 600 employees to propose an assessment, there is no insight into the work of more than 10 or 15. Therefore, in order to prevent these things from being disabled, to make the system as objective as possible, strict rules are prescribed. If you have a sector in which you have a department, the department chief, you, proposing to the minister whether or not a substitute should receive a reward, you are obliged to speak to his direct manager. You can't, past the direct manager's position, just so you can't favor it, or degrade it. It's so logical that I'm a little surprised by the amendment. Of course, a senior executive is not required to respect the lower executive's opinion, but that's what's called co-operation and what's called procedure. The result of an unfulfilled conversation with a person who is directly assumed by the undersigned is that the supplement falls. It tries to establish communication lines, to make competent people wonder, but without obligation to adopt their opinions. So, as Jering would say, "Forma is a sworn enemy of self-will and the greatest friend of freedom," etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28307	We can also simplify it and say it in the People's Dictionary: better and bad rules than no rules. Replica, Ms. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28308	Col. Balinovac, I don't know if you've read what Jering says about the state being real, is it possible for the state to make regulations, is it possible to put in place by the regulation some Vuk Draskovic as foreign minister, is it possible, by means of a regulation by the Prime Minister, the Government, whose name is Zoran Stankovic as military minister? When you consulted Jering so well, then it would be nice if you had read everything he wrote, so that you underlined what he refers to the state, so that you had turned your attention to Vojislav Kostunica how he should not work. Probably in Jering's theory and there's a theory of what a coup is. Did you read that he also says that a coup is meant when someone who has a certain authority performs a certain high function in the state, when it gives himself more rights and more powers than it has under the law and by the Constitution? If you had read all of this and announced to Kostunica, he probably would not have broken the Constitution for the third time, because he first violated the SFJ Constitution when he asked us to join the UN as a new state, although we are the founder of the UN; the second time he violated the Constitutional Charter, when he did not allow direct elections within the deadline provided for by this Constitutional Charter; now it is the most drastic violation of Serbia's Constitution, when he sets up ministers and the real state regulations, without constitutional basis, without the basis of the law. Why didn't you teach him that before this law, officials, thank God, work, receive salaries, although small, but they receive some wages, they could have done little more without this law, why didn't you persuade him to first in front of this parliament, it was the first task, after 5 June, of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, to come forward with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Ministry and Government Law? If you had learned all this, then we could talk about various theories. You yourself said, when you explained the amendment to Article 48 which, at the very least, whether it was pointless or funny, but I don't mind, no matter what term you used, but you said that in the evaluation, because the manager can't, without that direct executive, have insight into someone's work, I don't mind, but you said he couldn't do it without his assessment or without his attitude to give this supplement for the results of the work. That's what I was talking about, that's what the amendment to Zlatan Jovanovic is talking about. A grade, attitude, not conversation. What does talking mean? Chat. I'm surprised you didn't write – after a short chat with a face that's a direct manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28309	The word is Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28310	There is no regulation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted saying that Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, as there is no regulation in which the government has set up, or as you would say, has appointed Mr. Zoran Stankovic as Minister. Such a legal act, the government has never passed and cannot bring it, because it would be against the constitution. When you were talking about Jering, I'm going to tell you that Jering, unfortunately, is a very bad example of what you're talking about, at least at your expense, because Jering was going on from Germany where there is a broadly developed theory so-called. the state's cause. Let's not get into the state's cause right now. I tried to explain the problem of conflict between Serbia's international legal concession to rights and obligations, if you will and the ministries of the former state union, and the conflict of that principle with the internal principle that someone who is not elected as minister is a minister. When I tried to explain it to me, they told me that Mrs. Radeta could talk about coups unlimitedly, and that I had no right to oppose arguments that claim that she wasn't in the middle of a coup anyway. That is why, because of equality, I would like to ask the chairman to stick to the amendment, and I will not explain the conflict between international law and internal law, which took place in the event of the secession of Montenegro and the state union, which occurred precisely in these issues that were raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28311	My view of the discussions on this speaker is well known. I didn't allow myself to be a censor until now, nor to censor anyone's speech. So when you get a word for this speaker, you take care of what you're entitled to, what you don't have. Everyone's responsible for what they say. Mr. Mika Vlaovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28312	Mr. President, article 103 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure - the Messenger should speak about what is on the agenda. I don't want to debate and debate, I'd like to ask you gentlemen to stick to the agenda, to discuss those things that are on the agenda. That's what Serbian citizens expect us to do. If someone committed a coup and violated the Constitution, there's the Constitutional Court, so let the Constitutional Court say so. Don't judge before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28313	Now we're clear. Mr. Paja Momchilov, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28314	I'm talking about the amendment, and I believe it's a perfectly clear situation. You often resent us that we are against every proposal you make, and that's our only goal. It's clear here, the example works, we're going to try to sort out what's been given here, in this way, but it's persistently demonstrated on your part an outpouring of zeal, to challenge every proposal we make. You have allowed yourself in previous amendments, to lecture us here on political theory, and you have shown very little knowledge when you told us MPs in parliament that the legislative authority has no primacy in the division of power between judicial, executive and legislative. If you don't know that, you don't understand, please read which clearly states why we have primate. We have primate because we are a lay national institution that thinks in the most general way and brings the most general act, and executive power and this other authority, you will report for the replica, I know it, don't raise your hand, you will get your time, no one is denying it, but we ask you to clear these things first with yourself. The executive authority and the judicial authority are specialized. These are expert institutions, in some ways, which, on the basis of general acts, bring work. You will not tell me that it is not the goal and ideal of every democracy that, when it cannot already be direct, to be indirect, so that parliamentary democracy is not the one that is the main in all the developed countries of the world, and in this parliamentary democracy, the will of the people is expressed by direct vote and election of the people's representatives. You have now told us what the judges will say when we say: you are not equal. This division of power, you better than I should know, I hope you're a lawyer, I'm just a doctor, there are two principles – unity and division of power. Two are set principles. You're just frowning, it's a textbook reading, if that's something foreign to you, I'm very sorry. I'm a doctor, but even I know that, because I've been teaching some things that made me know, and sitting in these benches, I'm also obliged to know. Please, don't stand up to us like this, something that was legitimate as the president of Mr. Markovic's Parliament, which we supported, you tried in an unprofessional way to challenge. People's MPs, we are representatives of the highest national sovereignty, ministers are officials, they have exactly their tasks and their responsibilities, and what is different in this country and what you would like is different, comes from something you will not quote. We as a parliament are at least subject to red tape, and you are a typical example of bureaucrats. Professional services, that's a theory, don't take it personally. You're giving yourself a lot of credit if you think I'm speaking to you personally. Speaking in principle of what is known, when you're already quoting the German authors, we're reading it all the way. We, as representatives of the people, laymen, who are not experts at least, are subject to red tape, and all those who are experts, experts, are subject to red tape. What you're demonstrating here is just a bureaucratic opinion. Please, leave it alone, argue in the right way, metrically with arguments, and don't brainwash us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28315	I thank the People's Messenger Pai Momchilov. The word is Zoran Balinovac, director of legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28316	I may not have read enough, I was talking about the legal, not the political theory of the division of power, that's what I said. What might be saddest is what I've said completely notorious things, and those notorious things seem to be misunderstood. However, regardless of all this, I am prepared to continue to perfect myself and to study, so I ask you to propose to me a book that I may not have read, where it is claimed that the Assembly has in principle divided the supreme authority to which all other authorities are subordinated, etc. So, please, I'll read it, just give me the book that says it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28317	Thank you. Replica, People's Ambassador to the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28318	I know I've been talking here for a long time, so maybe you're a little tired. I didn't say it was the Supreme Authority, I said the primate in this division has legislative authority and I think I'm clear why and I won't explain it to you. Now you said – some book to recommend, "Political System", a law school textbook, author Vojislav Seselj, you can read well, there everything is defined, only I read it there and I suggest you read it, you won't waste much time. I'm even ready to buy you that book and bring it to you and hand it to you first chance I get.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28319	Mr Zoran Balinovac, Director of the Legislative Secretariat.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28320	I'm in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28321	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28322	Mr. Vice President Angelkovic, I'm not according to how many amendments you thought you'd be crossing members so quickly, and I've submitted the amendment to one very important member, so I want to explain it. I've submitted an amendment to Article 43 where the coefficients for the tenants are changed. I think the lowest groups are here with the least dates and it needs to be fixed, so I gave for the fourth pay group instead of 1.06 should stand 1.30, for the fifth pay group instead of 0.88 should stand 1.15 and for the sixth pay group instead of 0.75 should stand 1. So my point of view is that from coefficient one, they shouldn't be lower wages. I hereby advocate that the weakest and most damaged workers increase the coefficient and I do not advocate that in the largest, medium, etc. We're cutting back. This wouldn't go to anyone's harm, and I think it's misread, but the workers of the assembly here comment, you MPs are trying to cut our wages. So that's wrong, we're not asking to cut anyone's salary, and as much as Balinovac gave it, the question is whether it'll be practical to apply it. I told him to help Mr. Albianic with math, because he's a math expert, but he wouldn't accept that help and he came where he came from. So I repeat again, we are asking that the lowest wages, the lowest wage coefficient be 1, to fix the most damaged salaries, and we are not entering further groups and groups as proposed by law. I repeat, Mr. Balinovac, you should go back to the sixth group and see what it's like and if you would write a law like you wrote. I repeat, when a kid goes to school, you have to pay him to go to school, he won't go to school if you don't leave 100 dinars on his desk. He doesn't ask - Dad, what are you doing, who are the group, that you're the fifth, that you're the sixth, where Balinian put you, but wants 100 dinars to go to school, because he won't go to school unless he gets 100 dinars. So I think we need to think this through, there's time to vote, let's get this right, let's fix these lowest groups. If not, we have time in voting day, I ask all MPs, and I will try to speak to all groups, to support this amendment when there is a vote. So nothing in this concept collapses, just over there from 0.75, so there's no whole coefficient to start with the coefficient one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28323	I thank you, Mr. Perry. As you know, I'm still working fast, but the dynamic plan with me is something faster than usual, but I'm toleranced to accept that you're talking about Article 43. I remind all MPs, Mr. Peric has submitted an amendment to Article 43 that the Government and the Committee have not accepted, so Mr. Balinovac, please, for article 43, although we have crossed it, because Mr. Peric was not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28324	I thank Mr. Chairman, the problem of Mr. Peric's amendment is simply in that...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28325	About 43.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28326	I know, I have to answer, because he's logically impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28327	No, I did not forbid you to answer, I just reminded the MPs that I had returned for a moment to Amendment 43. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28328	So the problem of this amendment that's been spoken of, about the tenants is very simple, why it's simply logically impossible to accept it. The tenants are divided into six groups and sorted into six groups. The fifth and sixth groups of tenants are the ones who have a primary school. On the other hand, officials come from the lowest calling of the younger reference officer, and these are those who have a high school and at least six months of employment. According to Mr. Peric's proposal, those who have a primary school would have a higher coefficient than the younger reference officer who has a high school. So it was just necessary to pay attention to the so-called. executive jobs and compare them with the tenants, and I suppose it would be a very easy amendment to understand the amendments very easily. In other words, in this amendment that has just been explained, it is advocated that someone who has a primary school arrangement has a higher salary than someone who has high school equipment. That doesn't exist in any of our laws, so I hope the MPs won't let that happen in this one. As far as wage cuts are concerned, as it is mentioned several times, if Mr. Chairman allows, I will only quote Article 52, anyone who, after the entry into force of this law, has a lower salary system in Serbia than he had before the law came into force, retains the higher salary he had before the law, until the salary under this law reaches that higher salary. So that's Article 52, there's no possibility of anyone getting paid less. That's the principle of this law. At the very least, it must be the same as before the law is passed. That is clear in Article 52. This is the principle that when adopting this law, the current rights of civil servants and deputies must not be reduced. No pay cuts. If I have to, I'm willing to read article 52. - "A civil servant and a tenant whose basic salary after 1 January 2007 when this law enters into force would be less than the salary he had on 1 January 2007"... "holds the salary he had on 1 January 2007 until his basic salary, by applying the provisions of this law, reaches the salary he had on 1 January 2007. So, if his salary is higher by former regulations than it is by this, he retains by former regulations that higher salary so as not to have him law or Balinovac, as Mr. Peric said funnyly, wronged him. Just to clarify that question and there is a provision in the law that explicitly regulates it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28329	Thank you, Mr. Balinovac. So he'd be waiting for a pay raise, i.e. The process of synchronising his salary would be slowed. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28330	Mr. Angelkovic, if you've followed correctly, it seems Mr. Balinovac doesn't understand this matter. He, like I said at first mixed up some concepts. We ask that the smallest coefficient increase, and he says, you also have low wages and they may have less, but they will have the same by 2007, and everyone else will have more. Then why make the law if we leave some on the same page? I repeat once again, we are not the ones to be mistreated by our proposal. The third group has a higher coefficient, and we went below that coefficient with these suggestions. It's not true that there will be differences between an eight-year-old and a high school. If you ask me, there's no big difference, what about high school you study a lot, something like that. Therefore, I propose and think that this amendment is realistic and that it should be accepted. As for this Balinian explanation, the right to tell you I didn't even understand what he was talking about. There is a clear amendment here, so the fourth, fifth and sixth groups should be increased by a certain coefficient without jeopardising the group that is in front of the fourth group. That, in the end, wouldn't bother you. The next question, we are not against the fact that Balinovac has made a law where there will be a higher salary and a coefficient of nine, and he, with that coefficient, is pushing the officers into 150,000 salaries, I guess the MPs will have 200,000, according to him. Calculating, he said, the lowest salary of 15,000, the highest salary of a clerk times nine, nine times 15 is 145,000. The MPs now have 80, and surely our Committee will be sitting down and making payments compared to what Balinovac predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28331	Mr. Peric, I've listened very carefully to Mr. Balinovec, but I'm here as chairman, not an interrogator. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28332	Mr. Angelkovic, you must follow what is said for this pay phone. It's your business. Mr. Balinovac, when explaining the amendment of Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Markovic, he said, here someone is breaking the state, breaking the Parliament, you must not allow him to say it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28333	I didn't chair Mr. Peric then.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28334	The President of the Assembly is something else. What would Mr. Markovic do if he chaired, and I went out here and said, "Mr. Markovic breaks the assembly, breaks the state." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28335	He knows Mr. Markovic doesn't do it. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28336	Mr. President of the Assembly is neither breaking the Assembly nor breaking the state, nor did I say it. All right, all I'm saying is that I never said for a moment that the president of the Assembly was breaking up the state, and if Mr. Peric got it wrong or didn't listen well, that's another question. I just want to say something. There is a position for a younger referent, which is a condition for working in the high school facility, the coefficient of the younger referent is 1.00. There's a position of reference where it's supposed to be high school prep plus two years of work experience, where the coefficient is 1.13. There is a job for a younger associate where a higher school is required and at least nine months of work experience, where the coefficient is, under this law, 1.35. Mr. Peric, with his amendment, suggests that those who have a primary school have a higher salary than a junior student who has a high school, that those who have a high school than a tenant have a higher salary than a junior associate who has a higher school. Therefore, I say there is no law in Serbia. The result is very simple, don't study school. This amendment suggests that school learning is unnecessary, as there is no difference between those with different school facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28337	Excuse me, Mr. Pericic, you just asked what the president of the assembly would do. I'd take care of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm taking care of it now. It is not possible to discuss amendments backwards. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28338	We have submitted an amendment to Article 50, and I see according to the government's response that he did not even understand what we wanted with this amendment. Article 50 regulates government acts, Chapters are transitional and final provisions. Paragraph 1 shall specify the time limit within which the Government is required to adopt the relevant general acts. The government brings it to January 1st, 2007, and we replaced it with the words that the government brings it to 31 January of the current year for the previous year. There's a concept problem. The government believes that it is up to that deadline to adopt a sublegal act and settle the question of compensation by one general act, and we believe that every year, if it thinks it changes something, it does so by January 31st. Why? Because there is a problem of funding planning, determining the height for next year, etc. This is just a concept of disagreement. You consider that for the first time what you need to do with sublegal acts you have an obligation to arrange by 1 January 2007, with the fact that, later on, on the basis of the powers of the second member, you can change what you need, and we want to oblige the Government to regulate the sublegal acts that govern this area as set out in Article 1 if it brings it to 31 January of the current year, and this applies to the previous year's data, and it serves as a reckoning for this year, because it is a compensation for the costs of civil servants and tenants, it refers to a chapter where you have determined numerical and certain percentages, the amount of funds. This is in favour of budgetary policy, and I know that among other things, the requirements that put forward such a bill were that stable, clear sizes were needed, clear rules for a better view of budgets and budget planning. The purpose of our amendment is to make this change that would allow stable budgetary planning of funds for these purposes. It's just one concept disagreement. I have to tell you what you stated in Section 2. - "The Act of Government brought by July 15th, 2006." I don't know what that means right now. The government is due to pass an act by July 15th. Based on what provisions? Then you're saying that this act will fix the position by which the coefficients are determined, etc. A completely unnecessary provision. That's where we asked it to be erased. If the transitional and final provisions need to set a deadline, the date until the Government is required to adopt sublegal acts under this law and in accordance with this law, then it is written differently, and then the sublegal act referred to in that and that law shall be taken into account, the Government shall adopt by that date or within that time limit from the date of entry into force of this law. It's all messed up and it's making a mistake. I'm not surprised because there's a system failure here in Article 10, and now we're going back to the debate that some amendments are destroying the unity of the system that's being promoted by this bill. Article 10 falls away from all systems, absolutely from all systems, and in particular Article 3. Put Article 10. 3 in line with the amendments Markovic submitted to Article 8 and Article 40, so tell me where he was wrong. Next, about the form you were talking about, what a form of conversation it is. Can anyone explain to me what form of conversation is? The form of the conversation might be that we were sitting in a bar, so we talked, the form of the conversation might be that we heard from you on the phone. The form of the talks, even the decisions could be like when the Council of Ministers decided to conclude a contract with Milet Dragic, so Vuk Draskovic was in Milocer, scrambling, Sveto invited him. Holy brother, he can, and when he came here, there's a mess, and he says, "Just work." You said nicely earlier that the government has never passed an act on who the foreign minister is. Then arrest Draskovic when he lands at the airport. He falsely introduces himself abroad, signs contracts. Who's he representing? Represents Dan, Sretkovic, Trpkovic? Be consistent fighters for constitutionality and legality, not selectively. This side can do whatever it wants, and this one can't do anything. Secondly, I'm not sure that you measured this nicely when you were talking about that form, because you said that the head of the state's authority, you probably thought that this head of the minister, someone who's standing at the head of the state's authority, on a proposal that he's making, and you don't say who's making the proposal, but you say after talking to a person who's directly assumed by the tenant, with the head of a department. Then the proposal refers to the head of the internal unit. Who's talking to who and what's he talking about? How can it be a binding form of conversation for you? How are you gonna catch the conversation? A record of a conversation with him and his team on the work of him and the tenant. I can understand that you said a written form in the form of a report, a deadline in which it is to be delivered, I could understand all that, but the conversation to be a binding form of an administrative solution is still a solution to determine the salary, which is paid. You misquoted something and misquoted it. When he was talking about form, he didn't think of conversation as form. Talking isn't a form. I'll talk to you on the phone, and what? Let me remind you, something similar was done by Gašo Knezevic, the one who was a cobajagi minister. Let me remind you, Mr. Balinovac, he's been overseeing the final administrative act and has not annulled the final administrative act but has annulled the previous act. He even annulled consent. God forbid Gašo Knezevic comes to power after you. He'd be canceling the interviews. If the conversation was a form, then Gašo would say that this conversation was not valid, it did not exist, because it would bring an administrative act if there was no conversation. I use these examples on purpose to show how tragic it really is, what is stated in our regulations. I fully support you for saying in writing a report with results, with this, with that and after the talks, you're lying that the minister has to call the chief to tell him what kind of deputy he was, and the proposal is delivered by the Assistant Minister. That's how it turns out, because here's the word inserted between the minister and the assistant, the words are inserted. You don't need to worry much, we just wanted to make it right for you, to make it simple for you. Who will keep records of the talks, BIA, please don't, and as far as Article 50 is concerned, we know what you meant, you were thinking, acts to enforce this law that the government has to pass under this law and under the law will be passed by 1 January 2007, and that is the standard type of norm that prescribes who is required to adopt a sublaw. That's possible. We promote something else, we say, if the Government wants to, that is, it has to do it, to prescribe compensation for the costs of civil servants and tenants and heights, so it is now stated which members, some other methodology, are taking some other data and it should be calculated, if it is necessary to adopt a general act on this, then it is brought on the basis of the data from the previous year to 31 January of the current year, so it is valid in that financial year, known size, irrevocable in the course of the year, etc. So your concept is different, you have the current importance of Article 50, and on the basis of some other provisions you gain the right, or authority that, when you show a need, you constantly change it. We don't think we should change that, but to remind you, we're in a big surplus, in large imports of labour, in so much good business moves, we have terrible results, because I was just surprised yesterday when I listened to Albianić, because it was so nice, that even Dacic came out and begged him to cut it down a little bit, it's not like that, but we're really in this investment cycle, in terrible development, although no one feels it. So this is about one conceptal disagreement. If you don't accept the amendment, don't accept that concept, we don't have anything to accept, we don't have anything to be angry with, my God, we've just tried to change something by amendment, to be, as I would say, a stable, familiar size, because I'm absolutely certain that this would support anyone that is a finance minister, because based on these coefficients, pay classes, pay groups, basics, they're planning a very significant item of the budget, and these are salaries, profits and fees, and as you can see, the state appears as a great employer, it will be the biggest employer in this country after this destruction of the state community. Mr. President, since I know you're taking care of the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, just to remind you, a few months ago, an MP asked the question of where the army served the son of Zoran Shami. We received an answer 20 days ago that it was not in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia but in the state community and that they could not give an answer, given that they were not in charge. Since we have, or since you have decided that the state community does not exist here and now we have and we do not have these two ministers, we have now received the competent persons and they pretend to be ministers, so we are asking that we are now given a complete answer, so I repeat that question asked by one of the MPs, and this is about Zoran Shami and his son, given that there was no data of importance for that person, but it became a matter of interest and need to know and the public, a team that is really not weird when we see that great security and he comes to the Federal Assembly building as if nothing had happened. All the officers moan, cry, take off their flags, some laugh, enjoy, rejoice, inform Shami that the congregation no longer exists, because the man there regularly goes to work. So when you criticize Vuk Draskovic, Zoran Stankovic, don't forget Zoran Shami, because he's also president of something that doesn't exist. This is all my humble contribution to legality. Just to remind myself of those sins, someone asked the SRJ to join the UN as a new state, because that person was informed that there would be problems with the Presidential elections in America, so they won't be able to occupy the General Assembly, so give it as soon as possible to receive us. That's how it's done. An epochally announced Belgrade agreement that regulates our relations, is not in line with the Constitution, it must be known and much more is done, but you see for yourself by the system of destruction and in this you are no different from that of the "yellow" company that rules Serbia. You pretend to rule, and they basically rule. They hold the banks, hold the media, hold the military, hold the police, hold everything, and there's no need to be in the Assembly. Why would they sweat here? They have the actual power, they're everywhere, they're creating public opinion, they're going to get the army now, they're still breaking it apart, and that's this second attempt by Boris Tadic, and in the first attempt he's done something, and now there's another attempt to take out the army to the end. You'll see how military hotels will be sold and sold to, everything will come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28339	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Peric. Of course, it is not accurate information that Lesina is ruling Serbia. Also, please, the MPs of this assembly have found, therefore, that the mandate has ceased, for God's sake, for all the members of the state community, and there is no one who is an MP of the state community, let alone the President, and that is quite clear. Please, the security of persons who have been in office can last another six months and certainly the car will be assigned, if there is a request or security for the people who have been in office. There's no problem with that, I just don't believe that anyone's trying to show up at a former workplace and do something, but we'll check it out. In any case, if there is a need to answer the parliamentary question, it will be delivered, there is no need to talk about private lives. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28340	Mr. Markovic, I'm misread. When you're misread by Mr. Balinovac, you can forgive him, I don't mind, but I kind of disagree, because you're the President of the Parliament, and I'm an MP, and if I don't respect you, our MPs will be even less. I asked you what you would have done if you had chaired when Mr. Balinovac spoke, and you didn't want to answer me, but it remains for you, I'm not asking you to, you don't have to. There's one untruth here, and I'm misread for the following reasons. Namely, I suggested that the base be at least one, I didn't suggest that high school has a lower salary than an eight-year-old, as Mr. Balinovac said, but that in that context from one to nine goes, so if you have at least one, then you go to nine, there must be stairs per school. Balinovac realized that, he always mixes those terms and says, eight-year-old school will have more than high school. So the smallest basis, not to go when we go, from 0.75 but to go from one to nine, means we stay in the same context, and probably by names, by schools it would be distributed as it should and as it is just. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28341	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28342	I am referring to the principle of efficiency and the president has asked, and things have taken on some other situation, so, Mr. Peric, where you wrote that you should go on until nine, because you didn't write anywhere, and don't interpret your own amendment any other way than you wrote. So the fourth canvas group instead of 1.6 should stand at 1.30. The fifth canvas group instead of 0.88 should stand at 1.15, and the sixth canvas group instead of 0.80 should stand at 1.0. When you look at the school supplies, we can, as Mr. President said, after the session, we can talk and see that the real consequence would be that whoever has a high school has a lower salary than who has a primary school. I will no longer answer, simply because of the efficiency of the work of the Assembly, and apparently some of my words do not have a real response. What's proposed in article 50 is retroactivity. If it is said that the Regulation should be adopted by 31 December or 31 January of the current year for the previous year. I can't help but understand that the regulation is passed on January 31st of the year the second, and that is valid for the year first. It's right to call it retroactivity, it's forbidden by our Constitution. The regulation can never be retroactive, the law can and only do some of its provisions, it is a Article 120 and the Constitution, and if this explains well, which is the retroactivity. So it's about ordinary retroactivity, maybe a clumsy formulation of the amendments, and if it's a clumsy formulation of the amendments, then I apologize, but it really was possible to interpret it just like I just said with help or without the help of mathematicians. It happened to me, and I'm sure the formulation also leads to retroactiveness.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-22-0.u28343	Thank you very much, Mr. Balinovac. I understand you're looking for a replica. You won't need it now. Since I also spoke this morning about the importance of keeping in mind when we adopt the law to discuss it in detail, we should also take care of the efficiency of the work of the Assembly and the need of the state. I was talking specifically about how important it is, we can't do everything with laws and amendments, it's important to think about something in advance that we know what's going on. At any moment, it can be checked whether people think ahead or not, so it's hard when they think too late. I am taking full responsibility for myself, and I was late thinking about what it was about, which he informed you about under article 85, Vice President Mr. Angelkovic, based on attitude 1 and attitude 4. Sadly, people thought of it too late, and it is important to have a good discussion. On Tuesday, at 10.00 hours, we will continue the debate so that everyone can make a detailed statement in the details that we now have on the agenda, and we have stepped up to Article 53 and the amendment to this article submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. By Tuesday at 10.00 hours, thank you very much. Good-bye and good-bye.
