ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished media representatives in such a large number, above all a good day. I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 189 MPs attend the session, but in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 147 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. No one reported a preventee attending this session. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session on Monday, as well as a period shorter than the deadline set in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft agenda decision, which in its request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, was established by 99 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, which was called at the request of 99 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Dn e n i d: 1. A proposal for a decision on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the authority of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which, on behalf of the MPs, was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRY OF SERBIA AS A CONSIDENT OF THE SOCIAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE You have received a proposal for a decision. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common, that I do not read in detail now, if you agree. Thank you. I ask MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a number of Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, president of the SRS parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27436	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the crisis in relations between Serbia and Montenegro is currently resolved in a way that is neither good for Serbia nor for Montenegro. With a sense of sadness today, I came to the Parliament's meeting to meet people who have the same sadness as mine and others who mourn for something else today. I truly regret that Montenegro has been encouraged, with a speech and much EU assistance, to come to an end because many of our citizens, many of our people have remained outside the borders of the common state and because, in my opinion, each of them will present their own court, history will quickly deny us or confirm us, Montenegro has entered a path that definitely separates it from Serbia and makes it available to other countries and other peoples. And there are people here who regret that this is not a ceremony, and this presence of journalists tells us that something really is happening in Serbia today rather than Serbia's will. It is likely that it has been suggested that this is some kind of declaration of Serbia's independence. On behalf of the SRS and the SRS parliamentary group, I tell you – Serbia is only part of my country and as long as there are other Serbian states in any form, under occupation or as independent, all my political struggle will be focused on living in Serbia... Mr. Nikolic, please... Don't defend me, Mr. President, I missed these "yellows" so much when they start getting to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27437	Mr. Nikolic, please, I'm not making a difference in the color of my hair or the color of my eyes, I'm taking care of the dignity of all the MPs and I'm asking you to do it right now. Be kind, refer to all the MPs, be aware of all the moments we're talking about together. Thank you very much for understanding. Please continue, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27438	When I say "yellow," I mean political commitment. Fortunately, I am preparing for the National Assembly sessions, so I will remind you later that you sent these same words to Vojislav Seselj when he discussed the Constitutional Charter proposal in the Serbian Parliament. Obviously, you follow that people, that fools do not change. You might want to change some of your behavior. So today we're attending some kind of legacy debacle beyond the state our ancestors created. Our people say that when you buy property, buy from heirs, do not buy from those who acquired property, created, built, so it is easy to find a seller in Serbia and Montenegro for what was created centuries before us. But do we have anything to leave to our children? It will be easy for you today to share both ministries and responsibilities and functions, hire all your staff, transfer them to a republican administration, find a new organ building, for the president of the state, perhaps for the Assembly, some more halls will be added, but what do we have? Is your heart full? Were you aware three and a half years ago when you decided to adopt the Constitutional Charter, were you aware that you were separating Serbia and Montenegro on that day? We were aware and we told you in the debate. You insisted, gentlemen, that you had the Prime Minister at the time, that if you didn't bother to find what you were saying, I did, that it was the only way to preserve the union between Serbia and Montenegro. The DSS showed part of the doubt, but it took part in all of it. Dejan Mihajlov had even a few replicas with Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic at the time, who convinced the Assembly that another time he was gone and that he could not leave the hall until the Constitutional Charter was adopted. G17 plus never cared about Montenegro, neither cares about Kosovo nor Metohija, doesn't care about anything but power. So let's see how much morality there is in this tragedy, and at least in this tragedy, we find the basis for an extraordinary parliamentary election, so we can set you all up where you're most beautiful, where you're destined for, and some are even born, because I don't understand today's session. I realize that, in a way, we should have made a decision that would have been run by state authorities. We, like, pretend to be very important and the National Assembly runs the state organs. Come on, we're running both the Government and the President of the Republic and today we're giving them some warrants and some guidance for future work. You wrote it all down in the Constitutional Charter. It writes, if one Member State comes forward, then it was already known, Montenegro, although it is expected that another member may step forward, if Montenegro comes forward, Serbia is a legal follower, assumes all rights and obligations, and Montenegro is struggling to exercise its rights as a completely new state. That's enough for the National Assembly to decide. So the first and third positions of preamble are quite enough, point out and ask, but that's why, Mr. Proposer, the second position, the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh are again the same thing as our contemplative humility, they're not asking us for any of us, with whom we're constantly representing the world. I can't believe you're asking the government to take over, say, the Foreign Ministry, starting with some bright principles, just today when we realize that our brotherly state of Montenegro is no longer with us. Order them to take over the Department of Foreign Affairs and that's it. And no, the declarations, the announcements, the EU-led -- nothing you Europe don't worry about, we are separated, but all our aspirations and all our goals remain the same! Who can change that, those aspirations and goals. This is the preamble to the constitution, Mr. President of the Assembly, yet you have entered a little immodestly in writing this proposal, the constitution whose work has been obstructed for eight months by the DS, with your all-out help, Mr. President of the Assembly. I feel really sad today, and I know that many of you feel the same way. Life goes on and the state has to work. Of course, I'm not sad about the results of the local elections, so I'd like to advise you that you represent the authority to grieve over these results. I'm serious today, and you're insecure, if that's why you came to the congregation, you'd better not have come. This is a truly sad, solemnly sad day in Serbia's history. Apparently, whenever there's a ceremony, there's no place for DS. You only have to come when there's some fun, because that's how you live, that's how you work. I'm not gonna throw you a word if you're honest about what you're feeling today, and you found yourself throwing it at me right now. You're being driven by a worm. You have a focused SRS as the source of all your evils, in some ways we are. God has given us politics to deal with, to deal successfully, and now it bothers you. It would be easy for you to convince these people that you're a single democratic corps and that you have to lead them, you're just bothered by the SRS. We couldn't have bothered you to break the state, you broke it with the Constitutional Charter. I want to bother you until the end to break Serbia, because your oaths that everything that applies to Kosovo and Metohija are passed on to Serbia are declarations. Your conduct in Vojvodina is evident. Why should I analyze your relationship with Montenegro when I see you rule in Vojvodina? In Vojvodina, you behave worse than Milo Djukanovic treats Serbia. You from the DS with your coalition partners, and for your pride, your coalition partners...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27439	Will you use another 10 minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27440	Yeah. Nenad Canak, Bogoljub Karic, who is still there. You're really proud. And if you'd been collecting scum, you wouldn't have found better scum to form a government with it than what you have in Vojvodina. And you know it. Is there a decent political party in this government? Is there any one of those you want to form a republican government with? There isn't. What's that, what's that? How in Belgrade you have a coalition with other political parties, and in Vojvodina you don't. Explain to me that nonsens, that paradox, that nonsense. What's a Vojvodina for you? Independent state of DS. Is that it? It won't work! It won't be possible, and you know it, until the next election, so don't try to win the election. And if we had a direct election for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, we would have a state today. You didn't want that direct election, none of you here in the O.R., none other than the SRS wanted that direct election. Have you changed the Constitution of Serbia and adapted it to the Constitutional Charter of Serbia-Montenegro? You're not. Why? Who did you convince that this country would survive? No one. You broke the S.R.J. First, you broke it to one piece acceptable, to Serbia-Montenegro, and then completely. Here, from this pay phone, Zoran Djindjic warned us that it was the only way to survive the state and that there was no further separation of states in the Balkans – because where we, Serbia, ourselves and Montenegro will be separated into the EU when we have to together. He says, if we had adopted this constitutional charter six months ago, we would now have quotas and contingents to export to the EU, turn, turn, like this, say, we remain last and adopt it today so that the state will function and that our people live better. Everything can be wrapped up in nice words. Everything. And breaking the state can be wrapped up in very nice words. The stories of Raška area autonomy can be wrapped up in being a minister. And the stories of the Vojvodina can be wrapped in good words. Everything. All we have to do is make it possible for the people to show what they think about it in the election. That's why we didn't have a vote for the Federal Assembly, which is why in this crisis in the country, none of you are thinking of calling an emergency parliamentary election and dealing with this torment without us discussing Serbia in this session, which is not a federal unit or a single unit of the common state. The people chose us to be together with Montenegro. When we went on the campaign, none of us talked about how he was going to command the army. None of us talked about how he was going to run the Foreign Office. That's when we were talking, that's what we solved at the level of the state community, at the level of the federal state. Now, all of a sudden, we need to take over these functions, we who are not ready for these functions, because the Constitution has not prepared us for these functions. Shall we command the army? We have to have an army first. Shall we have an army? We can't have a private army of the Democratic Party! We must have an army of Serbia. He can't come and say, "I'm commander-in-chief from now on." He can't! Vuk Draskovic can't say, I'm still the foreign minister. No, you're not, you're not, and you're not, God forbid you are. But first he shall appoint a king, and if the king shall appoint him to be minister, he shall be minister. I would vote, of course, that the Government, the President of the Republic, all these various state structures, sports clubs, as we've been told, organisations, to give everyone a warrant to adapt to the new situation. But I'm not going to vote for this act, which we're giving to the government, to send sincere good congratulations to the EU and say, "Here, you've got another country, a new one, and that state is going to try to do this, to do that." Write a letter to the European Union, that I know I'm not going into the hall, because the moment the Assembly has a letter on the agenda to the European Union on the intentions of the Serbian state, then radicals will not enter the Assembly Hall. Well, I wish you'd had the chance to react lightningly, so that you could correct me, so you could laugh, but if I was faster than you, then I'd stand up straight, where did you get the right to laugh? I'm so fast, I can make a mistake and get right, and you haven't thought about what it's about yet. That is why, since time is running out, the SRS wants the Assembly to oblige the government to behave in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, under which it took over the legal followers of the former state. [[Applause]] And no, we don't want that act of great sadness, which we were forced to do both by our passivity and by our inaction and by my actions, because I have to tell you, I watched what they were doing in Montenegro when they declared themselves – did you see how many people were after all that euphoria and pompous that finally Montenegro became free, independent, like this and like this? Three toes could count how many people came to celebrate. They've already arrived, and some of us haven't arrived yet. So, if it's a really difficult moment, and it is, I warn you, many of you are younger than me, you'll experience waiting for how difficult today is, don't make any glory out of it. There's no room for glory here. Let's do what we have to do, share that property, when the father's already dead, the sons to share the property, and get the sad ones out of that hearing where the property was shared, because they would never have been divided if the father hadn't died. If we had stayed in power in 2000 today, we would have lived in a very strong and stable community with Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27441	The other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, will want a word. Here you go, in the order you called. The word is Mr. Albianic, then Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27442	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this moment in the history of our people and our country requires me to begin my speech in the following way: an independent Serbia has lived! Our country grew up on the basis of the independence of Serbian princes from the 8th and 9th centuries, the kingdoms of the 11th and 13th centuries, autonomy and independence of Serbia from the 19th and rights achieved in the 20th and 21st centuries. Our country was created by the example of the great history of the Kingdom of Serbia, under the sacred dynasty of Nemnjević. We must start here, with the mention of Serbia's martyrs from the Hrebeljanovic family, Lazarevic and Brankovic. We must be persistent in the spirit of survival under the crypt of the Holy Sava and the furnace patriarchs. We must be as patient as the carlovish Metropolitans, the Cetinan bishops and the masculine episcopals, who have spent our people through the centuries of darkness under the heavy yoke of slavery. We must be as brave as Karadjordje and Milos and all the liberators of modern Serbia. We need to be as wise as the creators of our sanctification of Stylish and Wolf. We must be as smart as the foundation of modern civilization, such as Tesla, Pupin, Milankovic and others. We have experience from the 14th century Serbian Empire and the united Serbian state in the 19th and 20th centuries. It is clear that we are state-run followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, but we have a debt to ancestors and obligations to generations that are yet to come. The G17 plus is for the restoration of Serbia's state independence, but above all because we believe it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people, not because we were against Montenegro or Montenegro. We want, as a serious and responsible state, to protect Serbs in both Montenegro and other countries wherever they are. Although Serbia's fate has not been decided by its citizens, we believe that this moment, the restoration of an independent Serbia, which was created 1300 years ago, the German countries, the first free and democratic Balkan state in the 19th century and the unity of southern Slovenians in the 20th century, should not be a time of sadness, but a moment of national joy. On behalf of the G17 party, I would like to thank the defence and foreign ministers, their ministries of the former state union, for noting Serbia's national flag in barracks and diplomatic representations. I especially thank the defence minister, because our army should bear the traditional name Serbian Army. I urge all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to point out the national flag of Serbia, along with the anthem of the God of Justice, ahead of the former Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, as soon as necessary. I also call on the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the Serbian-Montenegro flag stands behind the presidency, that today, in a good way, only the Serbian flag remains in this building and that the national flag of the state union is being brought down on the building of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To announce in our people and the world that the followers of the Yugoslav and Serbian-Montenegrin states, the queen of Tesla, Milankovic, Pupin, Selimovic and all others, the winner of Velbužda, Misar, Šumatovac and Kolubari, continues her life under her first and most beautiful name. Once again, an independent Serbia lived! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27443	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, MP Aleksandar Vucic, then chairman of the DSS parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd rather not intervene over everything the previous speaker spoke of. Listening to him, we would see that Tesla is not a Serb either, since he celebrates the Abnojev borders, that many of the other prominent Serbs, from Meša Selimovic, to those whom they said were Croats and proud of the Serb family, from Ivo Andric, on top of that, would never be Serbs, but I can't talk about them. I came out because the dignity of the National Assembly was hurt by the praise of a white-world villain and by speaking the greatest praises of a man who, now you will see and hear how he insulted the entire Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia. It's about one of the ministers, Defence Minister Zoran Stankovic. By the way, say that this kind of complex, take off these flags, remove those -- while it was this flag, we had a red-and-white banner and we in Serbia and those in Montenegro, because they were both Serbian states. And it seems to you that no matter how much the Serbian state and what territory it will be, it's only important that you can talk nonsense to the people to stay in power. I brought and received a letter, and Mr. Nikolic and I read that letter, Mr. Jovan Djog, whom you have detained in the County Prison in Belgrade. The man wrote, asked us to introduce the MPs to what happened to him, to what was happening, and it's not funny at all. First, a man wants to know what he's done (Albianic, listen to this, listen to this, Albianic, the "yellow" thing won't help you, we'll run you over in the election together). "The war in the former Bosnia and Herzegovina found me in 1992 in Sarajevo, acting as JNA's active major. I stayed on the battlefield until 8 February 1993, when I was badly wounded and on the basis of that wound from the competent military medical commission, I was declared a wartime military invalid, with a degree of disability of 70%." The man explains what he did and how he did it. Now I'm reading to you something that should be ashamed of many, and those you don't have to look for with a candle, because in the dark, you know what people say, it's good to shut up. "I note that for my work in the war and after the war I was decorated by Orden Milos Obilić and Orden of Karadjordje's star, as well as that in 1999 I was outstandingly promoted to the rank of colonel. I have never been punished or rebuked in my life, especially I have never had a disciplinary response." The man is now talking about how and how he is persecuted, how and in any way, for no reason whatsoever, because he explains that he is being prosecuted for a crime - to help the perpetrator after committing the crime, so it is not known that it is all true and it is not, so it is not known where General Mladic is convicted, and it is not known that any court of Serbia is pursuing him for any crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27445	But it is known, Mr. Vukic, that you have very little time in the Rules of Procedure, be kind and quickly present the evidence that they are saying that dignity has been injured, because it is very important, and we have to abide by the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27446	It's a sad thing you said, Mr. Markovic, and I'll continue, I won't be long. Further: "My older daughter graduated in July 2004, we come to this villain you praise, to the defence minister, "and with a dozen at the Faculty of Pharmacy in Belgrade, interned for 10 months at VMA, passed a state exam, and in September 2005, she took a job at a private clinic in Banjaluca, primarily for reasons of overlove for Republika Srpska. On December 20th 2005, in the evening, I was informed by friends in Serbia's MUP that my daughter's kidnapping and detention until my arrival, or handing over to the EUFOR forces in BiH, was planned. I manage to move my daughter to Belgrade in good time, and the next morning, at that clinic where the daughter was involved, the head of the management of the Republika Srpska criminal police, Dragi Milosevic, with the police, is causing major problems for the owner of the clinic and other staff because she is not there. On December 27, 2005, my wife, who was employed at VMA, as a senior laboratory technician, was handed a dismissal solution, explaining that her job had been lifted. The decision was signed on 20 December 2005 by the personal defence minister of the SCG Army, General Zoran Stankovic. So, on the same date as the planned kidnapping of my daughter, it is more than obvious that those actions were coordinated, and later I learned that the whole action was designed and organised by BIA Director Rade Bulatovic, Defence Minister Zoran Stankovic, MUP Republika Srpska, Darko Matijasevic and Dragomir Andan, Director of Republika Srpska Police." There are numerous violations of the law here now, and I'm not going to tell you any of it, but I'm going to read one more thing to you, Mr. President. "I spent 45 days in solitary prison. The law stipulates that a person can only be in solitary confinement if he wants it himself. I didn't want to. Only after a days of hunger strike was I transferred to the group room. Also, I know it wasn't on the orders of an investigative judge, because after midnight, he consulted several times with the N.N. faces." And in the end, the man says, no matter what, he doesn't want to ask anyone, and it's about John Djog, the prisoner, and it's nothing funny, you unfortunate one, nothing's funny, it's sad, it's criminals one. So, he says, "I don't ask anyone, and maybe this tone doesn't look like someone I should be praying to, but I don't want to ask anyone, but I want to give you information that I've come to and everything I know. I've decided to write this for my conscience, my family, and for all my fellow Members, for my history. Perhaps someone will say that the tone and portion of content are not suitable for someone who prays. I'm not asking anything, I just want to introduce you to the facts relating to this trial. And the first thing I want to say to you today, even though I did not participate in it, is that General Ratko Mladic is not entitled to surrender to The Hague tribunal, he has no right because of the 25,000 dead members of the Republika Srpska Army, who died under his command, to surrender to the hands of those who directly participated in the killing of his soldiers, whose primary fault was that they defended their naked lives and the lives of their loved ones. Of those 25,000 dead, a large part were boys and boys, etc." And I just have one more thing, Mr. President, because here you are openly commending, so, criminals like this, like Zoran Stankovic and some other ministers, to ask if you're holding this in custody, and you're talking about Serbia, Milos, Karadjordje, you're holding in custody those who got Orden Milos Obilić and Orden Karadjordje's stars, and you're putting criminals as directors of the banking sector in the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27447	Thank you. The word comes from MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27448	It is clear to me that there are people who are satisfied with what happened, therefore, by the fact that Montenegro has declared independence, and there are also us who are very unhappy with this fact and who are very unhappy about it. So it's a simple life, it's a simple reality that we live in. For me, the separation of Montenegro from Serbia is the reality that happened, and that sad reality. We have an act today that is nothing in our essence but an act that determines, determines and gives a few orders to the state authorities, because I guess we can't argue that this place, this National Assembly, can probably give me a warrant to the state authorities for certain actions and one of the central places in this warrant, in this decision, is a certain period within which certain state authorities have to do something to adapt to this emerging situation, which is a sad reality for me. If we're talking about a different approach and a different view of things, when it comes to pleasure and dissatisfaction because of what happened, I think it would be a good idea to look at how we show that satisfaction or dissatisfaction. This assembly, by nature of things, is given that we have a multi-party system, that we have political democracy, which allows diversity in opinion and fierce speech that defends one or the other position, one or the other position, that there are moments in our country, and we in the DSS have always pointed out that, when our tone would also be a suitable moment in which we are. And I think, really, in that sense, to continue this very short speech of mine, which consists of trying to draw attention, just so much, to the act that's ahead of us, to repeat once again, that it's an act that's being observed. What does it say? It shall be established that the conditions laid down in Article 60 have formally entered into force. Constitutional statutes. It does not say that in these words, but it is derived from this act, especially from the preamble, or the introduction of this act, the preamble is a difficult word. So this isn't about any constitution, or any constitutional solution, because in one constitution, it never calls for international organisations or accession or anything like that, and here it is. Why? Because this is about establishing Serbia's current state policy. That's the moment, the intersection of the condition we're in. These findings were preambled. They have no other meaning. Never in the constitution of a state will it be written in the preamble to the constitution that the will of the people rests, for example, on the idea of European accession. Why would that stand in any preamble to any constitution, or even to the EU member states? So it's not a text that resembles or resembles the constitution, but simply states what the current state of the current state of state policy in Serbia is. Of course it's the moment when the motion for a decision on the behaviour of the state authorities is made. Someone will say that maybe this whole text and the Assembly itself is unnecessary, and that it happens automatically. In a formal sense, I would agree with that. However, it was essential to give a certain answer from this assembly, if for no other reason, because of certain transitional solutions and deadlines that concern only the Serbian states at the moment. So, at this point, we are not considering anything that has to do with the political situation in Montenegro, and I repeat, that it is never less than the bigger one, that it is always bigger than the smaller one and that certainly there is no better common state of our common national space than it would be a better state. I'm not going to go into the analysis of how this happened, but I'm only starting with the reality that I find it hard to accept, but which, unfortunately, I have to accept. The deadline here is mentioned in which it is necessary for the Government and other state bodies to adopt certain acts, to take certain measures, and to mention the objectives, which is to achieve the international legal subjectivity of the Republic of Serbia, and not to seek that international legal entity from anyone, because it is automatically in accordance with Article 60. Constitutional statutes. It is about the exercise of Serbia's competence in certain areas that were in the jurisdiction of the state community, not the establishment of those responsibilities, because they are automatically Serbian responsibilities. When it comes to the legislation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it is an automatic Serbian legislation. So all the laws of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro are the laws of Serbia. Perhaps they should be changed somewhere, in that part of how the members of those laws are written, in which they are inapplicable or difficult to apply to the new situation, but these are our laws. Of course, the issue between Serbia and Montenegro is also mentioned, as it stems from this sad reality that I was talking about. So the issues will obviously be and they must be resolved. That is why a certain deadline is given, and I think that this intervention of the National Assembly, which may have been unnecessary for someone, in which they can formally agree, is essential. But I'm just wondering what our meeting here is for today, if we can interpret this fact this euphorically in different ways and reuse these events, it's not our first time in our near history, we've done it many times, I guess we've just prepared ourselves for some future elections. We've been through half the mandate of this summoning, perhaps it'll be shorter than what's written in the Constitution and the law, you never know. So we can prepare ourselves in different ways for these elections. Calling on big words and trying in every way to show that those who exercise power are bad, and we who do not, if we are at this point, are the best and the smartest of all others. Of course we are in that case, because in that case we can't make a mistake. So we can't get into a situation to make any mistake, we can only criticize the others. Gentlemen, our position from the DSS has been very clear since the beginning. We felt that the common state was the best solution for all of us. We considered it because of the brotherly peoples, some believe it was a nation. I'd be very close to that weight. We felt that it was for us, as we saw, the fastest way to achieve Serbia's goals, as well as Montenegro's goals, as the second part of our common state, as we experienced our objectives as common. Unfortunately, it's not there now. What I would like the least is for our political moves from Serbia to make something as a gap between the two parts of it even bigger, because believe me, from the worse it can be and from one evil there can be a greater evil. Therefore, I call on all those who live in Montenegro to continue to think of our brothers and that we have no bitter feelings for them, and we politicians, all together, who have led to this, will remember us for the good and for the bad, and I fear in these cases and for the evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27449	The replica of Mr Nikolic, then the head of the DS parliamentary group, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27450	Mr. Aligrudic misread the parts of my presentation. I didn't come out here to fight with you and make some way to campaign for the next election. I wish that, when the Constitutional Charter was adopted, we had even more quarrels, where we were lucky that the Constitutional Charter wasn't adopted. To remind you, then Vojislav Seselj sent a message to the DSS: "There are different human characters. This is one of the breaking moments in the life of every man, individual and whole nation, where it is necessary to prove humanity, pride, dignity and courage to say – not what destroys the state. This is my message, especially the DSS. You've finally figured out what the Constitutional Charter is. I've been listening to your president's speech. He understood everything and repented, which I am truly convinced of. I'm convinced he didn't want to destroy the federal state." So much so that we understand who knew what was going on in the Constitutional Charter and who didn't know. The laws of Serbia-Montenegro cannot be translated into the laws of Serbia, because some of them refer to matter that does not exist in the Constitution of Serbia. It was easy to write the Law on the Serbian-Montenegro Army, when the Constitutional Charter envisions Serbia-Montenegro's army and predicts the commander-in-chief of the army. Serbia's constitution does not foresee an army of Serbia and does not predict a commander-in-chief, and the law cannot come out of anything, but must emerge from the constitution. Now let me tell you why I doubt the good intentions and these decisions. I will try to read you a whole sentence and warn you that the decision is not good and that it is not democratic, and you appreciate it however you wish. The decision says this: "The government and other state authorities are obliged to adopt the necessary acts and to take the necessary measures within 45 days with a view to achieving the authority of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, in the field of foreign affairs and defence, to passing the necessary laws." So, you tell the government - deliver the necessary acts and take the necessary measures within 45 days, with the aim of continuing to operate defences and foreign affairs, until the necessary laws are passed. You're not saying we're giving the government 45 days to pass the law here, but you're saying it takes a measure to pass the law. When? In a year, two, five, ten, will this unconstitutional state last forever? Let us accept here that by one act the Government tells us: Vuk Draskovic will be foreign minister until we pass the necessary law. Is this the National Assembly, is that the state you represent here? Well, yes, it is a state that did not have direct parliamentary elections in the Constitution provided for by the deadline, and you all agreed on it. So please, this was the idea of a G17 plus, you can tell by the euphoria that they're waiting for, but the rest of us can participate in it. Their wish was to separate ourselves, a normal desire, you can put up with them in government, what can I say, for you it's normal, but don't expose the whole congregation to watch someone take off the flag here right now. What's wrong with this flag? Let's first form this Serbia according to its definitions, call an extraordinary parliamentary election to elect a new parliament, a new government, a new president of the Republic. Then let's set up our own signs. In which country do you now set a sign, which Serbia? We are still Serbia-Montenegro, a legal follower of Serbia-Montenegro, we are not yet Serbia, we are just a legal follower. There's no legal vacuum, but we're still just a legal follower. We did not build a state, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not the Constitution of an independent state, but is the Constitution of a federal unit. There's nothing to celebrate today. Even if you are pleased that Montenegro is no more, there is nothing to celebrate today, Serbia has not formed on its own.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27451	Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic. According to the Rules of Procedure, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27452	If by reading what Mr. Seselj sent to the DSS you wanted to imply that the DSS wanted to break Yugoslavia, then it is not correct for any DSS MP in parliament. If you wanted to; and if you didn't, then I misread what you said. Of course, since the replica was mine, and the replica was also talking about those who didn't care about the common state or that they couldn't wait for this to happen, then I'm afraid that part of your replica isn't considered to be something that applies to me or to the DSS parliamentary group, which is why I came out the most, simply, wanting to underline that circumstance. So, the DSS to the extent that it could have affected the exercise of power in Serbia through the then position of SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica, to the extent that it could have affected this parliament until the time it exercised power in a conglomerate called DOS, and afterwards as an opposition party in this parliament from which it was brutally expelled. We have worked all the time to, by respecting the political realities and the situation in which we are, extract the maximum that is necessary for our peoples to live in the common state, to the extent possible and to the extent possible at some point. Of course, I call on all those who have smarter ideas, who have much better solutions to say, firstly, that all of this could have been done differently under the given circumstances and, of course, that, after all, the moment they take power. But I have to tell you, all of these replicas and the way we're going out for a pay phone today make this discussion pretty lame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27453	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic, president of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27454	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, today is one of the days when it is shown whether one state is able to look at the circumstances in which it is located, whether those who represent the state, this Parliament is representative, at least that way it should be under the Constitution and the law, it has its shortcomings, but today, not to mention, those who people and citizens represent whether they are able to see the real life in which we are and the circumstances in which we live. The DS, and it's very well known, whatever they say about DS policy, and it's part of politics and part of our lives, we'll look at ourselves in the elections, the DS advocated, wanted, thought it was good for Serbia-Montenegro to be in a common state, that this is the best way to get together as soon as possible to the EU. The DS, on the other hand, has defended, defended and now will defend and in future the right of citizens to decide their fate and their right to determine in what state form they will live in. The citizens of Montenegro decided to want to live separately from Serbia, decided by the rules adopted by participants in Montenegro's political life, accepted that the will of the people of Montenegro participates and the important word says the EU, those who have lived with Serbia accepted those who wanted Montenegro to be a state for themselves. According to these rules and by the attitude and judgments of those who were all authorised to interpret those rules, the citizens of Montenegro have made a decision, decided to live alone in the future, and I, on behalf of the DS, congratulate the citizens of Montenegro on the decision, as far as it was not in line with the policy it had DS, because it is their inalienable right. In Montenegro, and that's what I want to say again, Serbia has no enemies. One hundred and eighty thousand people in Montenegro voted to live with Serbia. Those who voted to live apart from Serbia are not the enemies of Serbia and anyone who spreads the anti-Normanic mood or does not give God hatred because of the interests of Serbian citizens. Serbia in Montenegro has its interests, Serbia in Montenegro has its security interests, Serbia in Montenegro has people who love it immeasurably and Serbia in Montenegro, I am sure there is no one who hates it. Montenegro exported 300m euros in goods and services to Serbia last year, Serbia exported more than that to Montenegro, so what we are going to – we want to put out those jobs, we want to close down all factories that produce something that is exported to Montenegro or as reasonable people, as representatives of the people, who have been sent to this Assembly to look after its interests, find a way and a way to get relations between Serbia and Montenegro as soon as possible, so that nothing remains undeniable and that both together, as soon as possible, join the EU. It's DS policy. I can understand that there are other policies, so why don't they exist and that's why we'll go to elections to see who the citizens of Serbia trust. Speaking of which, there are two ideologies in Serbia today. One has a dream, so they say, a dream of some big country that will have its limits far away in the West. It's a nightmare. It's not a dream. A nightmare, which I hope will come out of as soon as possible, because nightmares do not bring good to anyone, because nightmares have nothing to do with reality. There is another ideology that has a vision of strong and powerful Serbia, it is the DSS policy, which will have the strongest economy in this region; Serbia that will have schools that we will be proud of, Serbia that will have hospitals where our citizens will be able to treat properly, Serbia that will be a country that will want to approach all those who have been running away from us with their heads for 15 years regardless, Serbia that its citizens will love and Serbia that everyone else will respect. There, today, ladies and gentlemen, is one of those days when decisions are to be made that will help our country through the real life in which it is located as strongly as possible. It is not time for grief, and especially it is not time to shed crocodile tears of those who look forward to an accident, so that they can win an extraordinary parliamentary election. There are some that aren't even good, maybe we should give them medical attention. It's not time for an exaltation or for joy, it's time for reality, a reality that will help us restore our country's strength. To give her back the power she had when she walked through European history most powerfully and who gave the citizens who lived there a decent life worthy of what Serbia, as strength and as power in its potential. I have nothing else to say to you but Serbia has lived! Because that's what's gonna help us all get back to our powers, our strength and our reasonable politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27455	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27456	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am not understood by Mr Petrovic, although I try to speak here so that everyone understands me. I guess I have another way to adjust my speeches to Mr Petrovic. But, Mr. Petrovic, you accused me of the SRS of looking for crises to win the election, and now in the biggest crisis, here from the pay phone, you asked us to hold extraordinary parliamentary elections, that you win. You should know, if we are in favour of an extraordinary parliamentary election, and you and we, don't accuse us of looking for it now that it's an accident, because you're looking for extraordinary parliamentary elections at the same time. About two ideologys, I'd like to ask you not to classify me with everyone in this room. You said that the ideology of one - the Serbian state in the West to some limit, and the ideology of the DSS - is strong Serbia, powerful. And where are the rest of you now? Don't accidentally throw them at me, 'cause I don't take it. It's yours, it's your democratic reform block. So you say on one side -- radicals, and on the other you and G17 plus, DSS, SPO, New Serbia, so I know what this is about, but it's stupid to say that only you have a desire for Serbia to be strong. So who doesn't have such a wish? Which of the citizens of Serbia does not have such a wish, which they did not earn from making their wishes from the assembly payphones? Well, I guess all of us have a desire for Serbia to be strong, but I can't allow us to detach the ends of something that might have been a little bit torn up, it's been a little too much for what's left in the middle to be strong, but I can't let you argue that what's a little bit torn up, that at least there's an illusion of power that you in Belgrade are exploiting indefinitely, up to the last frontier. I think that if you think about Serbia a little bit more normally, you'd have a nightmare, Mr. Petrovic. I had my nightmares in 2000, 2001, 2002, and I woke up and I saw that I was a normal and healthy man, that nightmares made me those who wanted people to believe that everything I did was abnormal and what they were going to do was normal. Let's see now, should you as a normal man have nightmares? What's happened to Serbia since you've been in power, Mr Petrovic? Not for nightmares, it's for "Laza". Indeed, the President of the Republic has done a great work throughout his term, Platini has declared him the best goalie in the world and I congratulate him for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27457	The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27458	As I recall, I didn't say one word to the SRS, but it's very good to recognize you. Perhaps there is hope for you to return from that world you live in slowly to reality. And yet some people need help. Perhaps, Mr. Vice President, it would be good if you kept some sanitary medical services here, if the first aid was provided immediately, people had verbal spills from the scene. But it doesn't matter. It's not worth having sex with what has nothing to do with reality. Right, the DS is seeking extraordinary parliamentary elections to get Serbia a stronger government than this one, so that in this parliament there is an undeniable parliamentary majority and that we reduce these in nightmares to a reasonable extent. Therefore, false calls for early elections are best shown at the meetings of the Administrative Committee, where those in nightmare keep the government as much as they can and extend its life. I guess they're waiting for some big accident to provoke an extraordinary parliamentary election. But the DS is asking for extraordinary elections to bring you back from those nightmares and show that Serbia, which is in reality and Serbia that has power and will, is a vast majority and that we will join the EU as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27459	The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, certainly this debate stems from the absence of DS MPs at regular session sessions, and it is obvious that we have all desired controversy and controversy. I have to say, I'm asking them on behalf of all of us to stay here because we have no one to fight with. There's no greater pleasure than to say in the face of DS what you really deserve, which is, for example, They're talking about 15 years someone's been leaving us. Of those 15 years, ladies and gentlemen, how long have you been in power? In those three years, SRJ went missing, so-called. The Frog Constitution and the so-called "The Toad Constitution". The Constitutional Charter, which for you was a rescue solution. Who are you giving the lessons to? Therefore, it certainly is not a day for a big celebration today, nor is it a day for excessive mourning, but in any case, the SPS continues to advocate Serbia-Montenegro's life together, for the common life of the Serbian and Montenegrin people. Besides, is there any closer people to the Serbs than the Montenegrins? It is unfortunate that in these times an anti-Serbian and anti-Montenegro atmosphere is being created in Serbia and Montenegro. It's sad that we started to love those we fought against for 600 or 700 years more than some we fought with together against those people. After all, that is the case with those who voted independence in Montenegro. In Montenegro, independence was voted in addition to Montenegrins, the votes against which Montenegrins fought for 600 years. They fought against them for 600 years, united with Serbs, and in a referendum, together with them decided to separate themselves from Serbs. History is a miracle. The nations remain, authorities pass and would be disastrous if an anti-Serbian and anti-Montenegro atmosphere were created in Serbia-Montenegro. In this regard, given that both Serbian national and state interests should be respected above all, this day cannot possibly be a day of great joy. This day cannot be the day Serbia declares its independence. Independence is being declared against someone from whom Serbia is becoming independent on this day. Serbia has created a community, not created by the SPS. It created a Serbian dynasty in 1918. Did she make a mistake or not? She may have made a mistake creating the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, but Montenegro then decided to live with Serbia. And what a joy it is when today, after 80 years, Montenegrins speak of finally regaining their freedom. Serbia has no reason to celebrate this day, Serbia should be concerned that one third of the Serbian people remain to live outside Serbia, in RS Krajina, in Republika Srpska, in Montenegro, Macedonia. It is a reality, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, and until the state authorities of Serbia realize that their priority is to defend every Serb in this world, it will not be good for the Serbian people in general. Every citizen of a country or a member of a nation in all major countries in the world deserves attention. It has become normal for the Serbs everywhere in our environment to be scribbled just because they are Serbs. Is that how it's gonna be in Montenegro? It's a question of number one that was supposed to be asked by our state authorities, not running in congratulations. Will the population be torn apart in Montenegro? Will the Serbian language be denied? Will Serbian history be denied? Will Serbian literature be denied? Will the Serbian Church be destroyed? I guess that's an important question for this country and for this people. That is why today, when someone is talking about that every mention of Serbs outside Serbia is a great Serbia, they are wrong. One country is large not only in the territory it occupys, but also in how much it cares for its citizens and how much it cares for its people. No Serbian citizen should, of course, suffer because he is not a Serb. Please, no citizen of Serbia or any other surrounding country should suffer because he is a Serb. Whether all political parties are allowed to say it or they will be too pleased if we live together with those who work so openly against the Serb people in their countries. That is why when I talk about Serbia-Montenegro's relations, Serbia has no right to recognise the results of the referendum until those who fought for the common state in Montenegro do so until those who voted for the common state of Serbia-Montenegro do so. The results of the referendum are the result of a ten-year anti-Serbian campaign and campaign against the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. This is actually the end of the plan Lord Carrington had back in 1991, on the creation of six sovereign independent states. This is, in fact, due to what the EU and various international officials have been doing over the past few years. They imposed the Constitutional Charter, they deleted from the Constitutional Charter the obligation to be direct elections. In addition, the suspension of negotiations with the EU weeks before the referendum in Montenegro was not because of Ratko Mladic, but was an incentive for the separatist leadership of Montenegro, to give them some more wind in the back and to pass that 55%. Is there any MP in this hall who does not believe that the EU has allowed the censorship to be 60% or 65% so Milo Djukanovic does not make 60.5%. Those 0.5%, these several wagons of imported Albanians or some others were always ready to vote for independence. Is that what Serbia will look forward to? Will that make Serbia happy and celebrate as a great day in Serbian history? Serbia's history doesn't start this day. Serbia's history begins several centuries ago. Serbia has created a common state. Serbia has no one to detach from. Serbia has no one to seek independence from. Serbia and the Serbian people should be proud of their statehood, not to celebrate it as some did after October 5th. Goran Svilanovic was the one who raised the Yugoslav flag in the United Nations, I don't know, there's Mr Svilanovic, I can't remember which country we were in line, I think we were the 200th country in line in the United Nations. What did that bring us? You remember what you said before 2000, only to leave the SPS, let Milosevic go, there will be good relations with Montenegro. What's the matter? Did you speak just to leave the SPS, Milosevic? Whether all Kosovo and Metohija problems will be solved. You said Kosovo and Metohija and Montenegro were a democratic issue. What now? Are you a non-democratic government? Was it democracy or is it separatism, terrorism, the desire for independence? So don't look at that question ideologically, look at it national. At this point, making such a decision is necessary from national and national interests. I don't think there's any need to conduct some broad debates, which, of course, are necessary. They are being held today because such discussions are not held at other meetings, because not all parties are present in Parliament. Parliament is where we should compete with each other, but here, I think, there is no dilemma. Serbia's assembly should decide on only applying what it says in the Constitutional Charter, which is that Serbia is a state-owned follower of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro, that Serbia and other state bodies should take all measures out of that jurisdiction and that it should be applied as soon as possible. Otherwise, as far as personnel solutions are concerned, we believe that all these issues and those of who will be ministers should be settled here in parliament by voting. Then we'll see who's gonna vote and how. In any case, the SPS, regardless of these referendum results, still considers that the Serbian and Montenegrin people, I will not talk about whether it is one people or not, so that someone will not be offended, but the fact is that 30 per cent of Serbs live in Montenegro, and can we view this day as a moment of joy? We're just missing "From Joy," flag down, flag up, and we're all gonna get better. We should live in the hope that the Serbian people will eventually unite. It's not a dream of a great Serbia. We should ask that until that happens, Serbs have rights in these countries and that the issue of relations with these countries is conditioned. I do not want to talk about reciprocity, because it is not the Montenegrins living in Serbia who will have a relationship with the Serbs living in Montenegro. It is not the fault of the Croats in Serbia what Croatia has to do with Serbs in Croatia. But our relationships should depend on it. As long as we're courting, congratulating, to apologize to everyone who's killed us, who thinks of us all the worst. Let's be proud of ourselves! We should say that in order for the nation to stand up, not to celebrate some days that are not given joy for our country and our people. Therefore, Serbia lived, but not from today! Those political parties that haven't always spoken lived in Serbia have at least reason to say it today. We have been for Serbia all these years, for Serbia living together with its people in other republics, for Serbia living in the common state and for Serbia, which we hope will live together with others again, but only with those who really want to. So in order not to further discuss it, the SPS regrets that this is how the outcome of this referendum happened. We don't recognize the results of the referendum because we think it's rigged. We do not recognise the results of the referendum because neither did those political parties in Montenegro advocate for the common state. How do you have the nerve to admit the results of the referendum when they were not recognised by those political parties you supported? Now you're saying you're gonna let them down there. So some of them are happy here because they supported Milo Djukanovic and because they were in a campaign with him for various elections, etc. There is something good in all of this, and no one else will be able to rule in Serbia with the help of Milo Djukanovic and that's something that's good. We are in favour of the common life of the Serbian and Montenegrin people, of course, we are also in favour of all rights of non-Serb citizens and, of course, we are in favour of the path of Serbia that will go towards European integration, but that in these integrations we are taking care of national and state interests and therefore we believe that perhaps in this preamble we should not have so much highlighted everything that is not important for this moment. That is why we had no intention of taking part in this debate today, but we should never miss the opportunity to express different opinions. It is just sad that Parliament is no longer a place to exchange views on political developments in Serbia, because some think that something can be done outside Parliament, and it is a little ironic for me, to raise the flag in front of the Federal Assembly. Some who go there to raise the flag took part in the burning of the Federal Assembly, so I don't know if that building is quite enough for you for the Serbian parliament. But since you're not disgusted by anything to be held in power, in any case, I'm sure many will benefit from those institutions that have burned, I'm sure many will use what they've been saying all these years to preserve power. Serbia-Montenegro are close countries, close peoples, Serbia has no reason to celebrate today, but Serbia should today be determined to tell everyone, as Montenegro had the right to plead, so do those of our citizens living outside Serbia and why they should not have the right of Serbs in Republika Srpska to declare their status. If Resolution 1244 is not a "sacred letter" and if Albanians have the right to plead, why not have the right of citizens of Republika Srpska. But in Serbia, someone should have the courage to say it, not to apologize in all order because we are Serbs. So don't ask us to be prouder than our national authorities. Serbia has no reason to be proud of raising or burning flags, dropping, Serbia has reason to be proud only if it is unique in defending national and state interests, because as many of the parties said are different, the parties are many, but if there is no state there is no party. That is why the SPS will do everything, as it has done so far, to be a constructive factor in Serbia's efforts to preserve its political stability in these difficult moments that are important for the functioning of the state in conditions when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro falls apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27461	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no written statements, before I conclude a single search of the motion for a decision, does the motionary, MP Predrag Markovic, want the final word? The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, to answer the side-by-side question – from which benches do I come from? From ours. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't take the floor at the beginning to explain the proposal for this decision, because I signed it formally as president of the National Assembly, because there are parties, there are citizens, there are institutions, there are, of course, for the lives of citizens of a unique legal order and then there are a whole series of formalities that must be carried out in beautiful and difficult times. Otherwise, everyone's got problems. In a democratic state, and Serbia is long ago, all parties in the National Assembly have been elected in a democratic way and are all from the view of the president of the Assembly democratically. It's an obligation. There is no other institution in one state that has parliamentary democracy, which can issue confidence and a warrant to the state authorities to do something. For the electoral power comes from the people and through the laws is realized first through the National Assembly. Citizens, perhaps, who have followed this transfer, do not know what the decision on which the MPs today will vote, this decision on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in fulfilling the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, "1) undertakes the government and other state bodies to, within their Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, adopt within 45 days the necessary acts and take the necessary measures to: - the achievement of the international legal entity of the Republic of Serbia, as States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro; - the achievement of the competencies of the Republic of Serbia which have moved to the Republic of Serbia as a State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, and above all in the area of foreign affairs and defence, to the adoption of the necessary laws; and – the resolution of all issues between the Republic of Serbia, as State-Crna Gorenegore State and the Republic of Montenegro, as independent states. 2. This decision takes effect on the day of adoption and is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia." Why is this necessary, and why did I think I didn't have to explain at first? There are times where it's important to apologize well and discuss. There are moments when silence is to be kept silent, and that silence is not only a sign of necessary harmony, but also of respect for what is lost and for what is obtained. I completely understand, I suppose, I apologize, I couldn't follow all the discussions, that many have found that Serbia wished for a fight, a debate, well, of course, and in my home here and I respect that, it's parliamentary democracy. But you know very well that the citizens of Serbia did not wish to fight and debate, although, like each and every one of us here, much is not clear, they are concerned about a lot, and not since yesterday. What the National Assembly, I believe, today, with the votes of all MPs, I thank everyone for this responsibility, for making them indisputable, is to give assurance to the state and its authorities that, according to this, they can take measures to achieve and protect the rights and to continue everything that has been started. Because I really don't talk about names, and I don't understand why individual names would be named, I individually raised both death certificates and birth certificates, and the fact that someone died or that someone was born didn't change that belief, but that belief was necessary for life to continue. Of course, many will regret it, many will rejoice in accordance with their political definitions, but the citizens of Serbia and their institutions must have clear confidence, because now from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Montenegro has separated in a way that you know well, and in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, Article 60, Montenegro is now an independent state. Serbia and this decision do not put an end to it adding a point for a whole series of areas in which it is possible to add to sports, both in science and in state-level contracts, to add links to the region and to countries, but it is possible if all the authorities of the Serbian state are first authorised. In your hands, you have debated as representatives of political parties, but at the moment you are voting you are legislators, and at that moment you allow the state of Serbia, depending on the future elections, on the behaviour of the authorities of the state community, on individual behaviours, on the current republican authorities, to enter into possession of what it inherited, because it created, but it did not create itself, but at different times created together with others. This authority today is being issued by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it may be good, although I have asked everyone not to participate in the discussion, it may be good that we discussed it in detail, because Serbian citizens are also constantly discussing and confused. But the responsibility of all of us, whatever political commitment we are, is to ensure that after these discussions, they have no concern, but that they can begin to exercise their rights, those that are institutional -- institutionally, those that are human, political, based on guarantees and based on their choices that will show up in the elections, then when conditions are acquired, if they need to tomorrow -- tomorrow, if it takes over a year, then within a year, but when the legal conditions are obtained for it. Thank you all for this kind of responsibility and I believe that we will approach the vote and be responsible for ensuring that something, which also causes some good feelings, with some joys, will, above all, be an act of a responsible state, and all of you here on behalf of the citizens of Serbia guarantee that the state of Serbia is responsible, because only on the basis of this guarantee will it be able to do something in the future. Thank you so much for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27463	Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27464	Since I belong to a group of "faithless", I must ask all of you who have imagined this and who are now convincing us that the Government will propose, and the Assembly to appoint, who has authorized you to appoint the Chief of Staff on Sunday? And who set it up?- I'm sorry. Black Mountain personnel to leave? That's why you need to take everything out here and talk to us honestly so you can convince us that this is no ordinary moment in which the government cheats on the opposition. No, this is again the day in which the government cheats on the opposition, in which the government takes over the powers that the National Assembly should have, in which the government flees from making a new constitution, flees from the extraordinary parliamentary elections, but wants the state to function according to its standards and its structure. And I don't believe anything, you can't convince me any more, when I heard that you met with Montenegro's leadership twice in the meantime since Montenegro headed this way towards Croatia and Albania, it was not bad for you once to deny state honours to Slobodan Milosevic, and for the second time for Montenegro's leadership to appoint you the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army. And that's just because that "young man" who never commanded anywhere, maybe he was in command of offices somewhere, in exercises where NATO trained him to be put here, and, behold, miracles, in very tight and close relations with the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27465	Thank you. This is a replica, I assume, of some previous exposure. Is there any more replicas? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. Since we have conducted a single search on the sole agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, June 5th, 2006, at 13,42pm, as the day for voting on the draft decision. I know this isn't according to the Rules of Procedure, but I have to ask that we all be aware together at the moment of the vote. We also provide one legal authority to the state where we will compete politically. Thank you. People's MPs are leaving the O.R. ) Please prepare for the vote. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF SERVES AS SERBIA COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search into the proposal for a decision, we will move to a decision. Before that, we determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., because I think one part of the MPs has left the O.R. I ask all responsible MPs to check if they have inserted their cards. I find that there are no 126 members present in the hall and I am giving five minutes of time to enter MPs who will join the vote, which will allow the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to take all measures to carry out their duties during the transfer of competencies from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you. [[After breaks – 14,10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a break to see if all MPs who take part in the vote have come down. Please check if we have a voting quorum. Thank you. Please check your cards, although the signal has indicated that 126 MPs are present, which means we can approach the vote. Before the vote, MP Ivica Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27467	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course the President of the Assembly just said that, given the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we are making an exception today. We agree with that because it's the interests of the state. I would like to draw attention once again to the behaviour of the DS, which exercises power in this country, which has the President of the Republic, which is not present in this room at the moment when it is voted whether Serbia should be a state-run successor of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Absolutely inappropriate behavior of the responsibility of the function that this man and that party performs. That's their problem. It turns out that we who are here are more interested in whether Boris Tadic will be the top commander of Serbia's armed forces. This is another indicator of how irresponsible this party is for this people and this country. He ran first, his MPs first ran to congratulate and bow to Milo Djukanovic before the referendum's results were announced. Just as they remembered yesterday they were seeking the resignation of Minister Jocic because Zoran Vukojevic was killed. Why didn't they ask for Dusan Mihailovic's resignation when Zoran Djindjic was killed? It's as if Vukojevic is more important to this country than Djindjic. That is a message for those who speak to them. I suggest that, if they've already made a deal, those who agree with them come out of this room. Watch out, whoever plantes pumpkins with them, you know how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27468	Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the authority of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. 126 out of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has unanimously adopted the motion for a decision, compared to the MPs present. I thank you all for your responsibilities in the participation and work of today's session. (The session is closed at 14.10 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27469	THIRD SESSION 5 June 2006 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.10 p.m. Predrag Marković, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Marković. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished media representatives in such a large number, above all a good day, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 189 MPs attend the meeting, but in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have no notice of the prevention of MPs from attending this session. According to Article 85(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Monday, June 5th, 2006 at 12:00 p.m., past the day set out in the position of the first member of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda, which, in its request to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, has been established by a group of 99 MPs. You were presented the minutes of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 24 and 25 May 2006. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Administrative Board has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes set out in that session. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 24 and 25 May 2006. For 126, of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 24 and 25 May 2006. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know, with the agreement of the representatives of the applicants, the request for the second extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, 01 No 06-1193/06 of 29 May 2006, was renamed the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. With a call for this sitting, which was called upon by 99 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for an emergency session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks and other teaching means, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Radio-Difusion Act, submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Tomislav Nikolic, Milosevic Albianic, Miroslav Markicevic and Ivica Dacic; 5. Proposal for a bill on salaries of civil servants and deputies, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a ID bill submitted by the Government; 7. A proposal for a law on agricultural land, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law on organic production and organic products submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government, submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a Law on Free Zones, submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a foreign exchange law submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments, which was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, which was submitted by the Government; 14. Proposal for a Law on the ratification of an Energy Community Treaty between the European Community, the Republic of Albania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, which was submitted by the Government; 15. Proposal for a law on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (rehabilitation of Bajina Basta hydropower plant), which was submitted by the government; 16. Proposal for a law on gender equality, which was submitted by a group of 15 MPs (in the course of the session this item of the agenda was withdrawn); 17. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law establishing a press publishing institution "Brothership", which was submitted by the Government; 18. Report on the work of the Study Committee educated to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, which was submitted by the Survey Committee; 19. The choice of judicial officials: - Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; - Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor, who submitted the High Council of Justice; and - Proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors, who submitted the High Council of Justice. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle search : Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance (points 1 and 2 of the Agenda); Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land and Proposal for a Law on Organic Production and Organic Products (points 7 and 8 of the Agenda); Proposal for a Law on Foreign Business and Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments of the Law of the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo, in accordance with the Resolution 1244 of the Security Council of the United Nations, which has submitted the order of the Republic of Serbia (FPurresion of the Republic of Serbia). Does Ambassador Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 114, against 6, there was no vote of 7, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and that we can move to work on the agenda. Please, just two notices. We will move to work on the agenda in a united debate on the basis of the proposal that you accepted, the first two points of the agenda, at 15.15 hours and we will be working on Article 85, paragraphs 1 and 4, today, just until the conclusion of the principle debate on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda that are united. At the same time, I ask the officials of the National Assembly to, in accordance with the Decision taken by this National Assembly, with due attention, take the flag of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro behind me. I also ask that, with due care, with the building of this Parliament, the flag is removed, so that the Assembly will continue to debate fully, because we respect everything we have created and have and respect everything we continue, precisely in accordance with the dignity of this decision and this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing to work towards the agenda. We move on to a common principle search of the 1-2nd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CITIZEMENT OF THE CITIZEN INVESTIGATION OF THE CITIZEMENT OF THE CITIZEN AND THE ADDITION OF THE OBJECTIVE SOCIAL OBLIGATION OF THE OBLIGATION OF THE PUBLISHING DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the law referred to in points 1 and 2 and before the opening of the joint principle search reminds you that, as set out in Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Please call the minister, because I assume he'll take your word for it. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27472	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to Article 225, which speaks of the right of the MP to be informed of all the questions necessary for the performance of his duties. Namely, what should be news, and certainly not news, is elections in Bujanovac. I would take the opportunity to read the results, since the Public Service, as you say, the Republic of Serbia, RTS, has not yet received those results, announced yesterday that it will be tomorrow, has been completely erased today, but I think the Serbian citizens deserve to hear those results, and you certainly deserve that, too. For several months, negotiations between the SRS and other parties on forming a common Serb list, i.e. common lists of parties that respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, lasted. Unfortunately, there was no deal. Those from the ruling coalition felt that they, as ruling, should have a candidate, did not pay attention to the people's wishes and, unfortunately, my and the SRS, two candidates of Serbian nationality went to elections and three candidates of Albanian nationality. I'll read you the results now. Mr. Nagip Arifi won 6.781 votes or 33.86%, Mr. Jonuz Musliu won 4.289 votes or 21.42%, Mr. Salihi Sali, who retired three days before the elections, so his name remained on the list, but for him apparently no one voted, received 64 votes or 0.32%, Mr. Slobodan Jovanovic received 2.126 votes or 10.62% and Mr. Svetislav Stojmenović Ceke, an SRS candidate, received 6.101 votes or 30.47%. Once again, it has been proven that no one can cheat on Serbian citizens and that they are making valuables eventually surface. The "Complex for Bujanovac" coalition, which ran by Mr. Slobodan Jovanovic, consisted of practically all nine political parties, all those who today insist on Serbia's political skies, i.e. the DSS, G17 plus, DS, SPS, SPO, New Serbia, the Movement of Serbia, SDP and Liberal Serbia. On the other hand, the SRS went to this coalition vote with the people and this clearly shows these results of the vote. In the second round, as I have already said, Mr. Nagip Arifi and Mr. Svetislav Stojmenović Ceke, an SRS candidate. I will take the opportunity to thank all voters who went to the polls, because it was very important for Serbs to organise themselves a little bit, to show that they could do something for their future and to win a large number of mandates. I would especially like to thank those who gave their vote to the SRS committee group and its candidate for president, Mr. Svetislav Stojmenovic Ceket. What made me the most out today is to tell you what our attitude will be before the second round, that is, after this victory in the first round. We have indeed marked this victory in a dignified way. There weren't any celebrations. We consider the date of the celebration can and may be organised after the victory in the second round of voting. There were no riots in the streets, although members of some other party, of course not Serbian, were trying to make some incidents... (President: Mr. Sarovic, time. I'm done, Mr. Mikhailovich. I would invite all parties, regardless of the results in the first round, to support the SRS candidate. So, I call on all those who respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and who, as their programme commitment, have the survival and survival of Bujanovac within the Republic of Serbia, to support Mr Stojmenovic without reservation and openness. Every other show...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27473	Mr. Sarovic, please, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27474	I'm finishing up, Mr. Mikhailovich. We had to wait anyway. So, I would ask you once again and call on the style that is beyond what is necessary, especially in those areas, which some want to secede from Serbia, and ask you to make an open statement about whether you will support Svetislav Stojmenović Ceket in the second round, because the absence of that support means support for Mr Nagip Arifi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27475	I am opening a joint principle search on points 1 and 2, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax and - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Obligatory Social Insurance. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27476	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my great honor today to have the opportunity to discuss two laws that significantly relieve the taxpayers of Serbia. Why honor? Because a lot of people used to say it was necessary to cut taxes. I still don't know anyone who's reduced those taxes in the past 15 years in Serbia. Why haven't taxes been cut before? Not because the ministers didn't want to, but because they didn't have real grounds where to do it. Three years ago, I was one of the ones who asked my predecessor to go with a tax reduction program, and I made a commitment to the citizens when we got the chance to pass a law that would cut pay taxes. This, however, was not realistic in the first two years of the government's mandate, for the simple reason that we found a deficit in the budget register, we had a deficit of about 4% of the gross social product inherited from 2002 and 2003. They had to cut the expenditures first, run a solid fiscal policy, then introduce and implement the VAT law in order to increase revenues, and only when the balance in the budget was reversed from surplus to surplus, did we now come in a position to objectively think and implement tax cuts. Because cutting taxes means losing revenue in the budget. If income is lost, and you have a deficit in the register, then budget users, and pensioners, and those who receive social benefits, and people who work in education and health care, because it is not possible to maintain funding. So, first, it had to be made extra to make one part of that surplus "sacrifice" in favour of taxpayers, i.e. businesses. We managed to make that surplus last year. This year we'll also have a budget surplus. It is expected to be between 40 billion and 45 billion dinars. We originally planned 40, but according to some of our revised estimates by the end of the year, the budget surplus could be all 45 billion dinars. Given that we're going to have a surplus in the register, we've decided to cut our salary taxes and directly relieve taxpayers by 31.5 billion dinars. This law, which we propose, carries out the discharge of taxpayers for more than 30 billion dinars. In addition, we find ourselves in a situation where all the extra privatisation incomes, which otherwise do not enter the regular tax revenues, are booked on the sides and recorded differently, cannot and should not be used to cover the deficits in the budget, since we do not have it. Now, for the first time, we have a situation this year that we can invest all the extra privatisation income or use them to pay back some of our debts. These are two options when you have extra privatisation revenues compared to budget needs. In previous years, all the revenue from privatisation, and from the sale of DIN, Beopetrol, cement, all that went to cover the deficits in the budget. All that money went to cover the deficit. Now, on the one hand, on the side of income and expenditure in the budget, we still expect between 125 billion and 150 billion excess of privatisation. This was the basis that the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to launch a national investment plan, i.e. a six-year investment plan in the most important sectors in Serbia, and above all to education, health, infrastructure, economic development, social standard and, of course, state administration reform. In that sense, we are now talking about only one segment of the entire economic policy package of the Serbian government, which is tax discharge. I am sure that in this National Assembly we will have the opportunity to talk about this second segment more when we talk about budget rebalancing, and that is the national investment plan, which will definitely have to be included in the budget rebalance. When we planned this year's budget, we didn't expect such significant privatisation revenues. Taxes are, but not privatisation, I have to admit, because when we were making the budget nobody expected, and I have to admit neither, that we're going to have a chance to have a strong competition now to privatise former "Mobtel". It's a company that's worked for 14, 15 years without the state's dinar seeing it. It is thanks to this government that we have come into a situation that finally one part of the money received and that privatisation is used for the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of the people, through investment in the public sector. Of course, today I'm gonna concentrate on the law itself. This law, apart from the disbursement of 31.5 billion dinars, brings the protection of the socially most vulnerable layers of employees, who earn minimum earnings. In fact, in the contribution law, we propose to lower the minimum basis for paying contributions from the current 40% of the average monthly salary in the previous quarter to 35%. Also, what is important and why this law, among other things, is that we want to stimulate employment both young and 30 years of age and those who are over 45 years of age and do not currently have a job. We're promoting law and hiring a disabled person. This law introduces an untaxable censorship of 5,000 dinars. So unlike the system so far, where the salary tax was paid on the total amount of earnings, now a censorship of 5,000 dinars is introduced that is not taxed at all, so that the following solution is obtained: there is a higher tax charge for labour-intensive branches, for example, for the textile industry, for the leather and footwear industry, for those branches that employ more workers, they will have a higher tax charge, and a higher tax charge will have undeveloped regions. In this way we want to stimulate the work of employment and the development of those regions that are less developed, because you will see in examples, far less will be paid tax on salary, for example in Majornik than it will be in Subotica or Novi Sad. We introduce a fairer tax system, because on the one hand we charge more to those who are weak, socially threatened or poor, but therefore we introduce progress in annual tax payments, so that those who earn more will have a progressive rate of tax pay and thus a fair redistribution of the tax burden between the rich and the poor. What are the most significant amendments to the law? I've already said we're reducing the tax rate from the current 14% to 12%, but at the same time we're introducing a non-taxable profit rate of 5,000 dinars a month. This means that if someone receives a salary of 15,000 dinars, then the tax will only be paid at 10,000, and the price of 5,000 is not taxed, which means that those who have lower wages have a higher tax charge, and those who have more salaries, of course, that the charge is less. Currently, the tax burden is 73.1% on net earnings. So, on 100 dinars, net wages are paid 73 dinars of taxes and contributions. On average, by adopting this law, we bring this average fiscal burden from the current 73.1% to 62.7%. When we compare Serbia with other countries in the region and in the European Union, if we measure the fiscal burden by so-called. The OECD method, then the fiscal burden in Serbia will be 38.5%. Why does it matter? Because the methodology, as tax burdens on salaries are announced in other countries, knows mainly this OECD methodology and is the only way to compare Serbia's place compared to other countries. I'll give you an example of the tax burden on salaries in other countries. For example, Sweden has at this time a fiscal burden which is the largest in Europe 46.2%, Germany has as much as 45.4%, Poland 41.9%, the Czech Republic 41.9%, Turkey 41.8%, Hungary 41.5%, Lithuania 40%, Croatia 39.8%, Slovenia 39.8%, Estonia 38.9%, Slovakia 38.8%, Austria 38.6%, and Serbia will have 38.5%, a lower burden than these 12 countries that I have just read and which is a member of countries with lower tax burden on wages in Europe. There are countries that have even lower, but those countries that have lower tax burden – such as Ireland, which I think is a good example and needs to be compared to in the future, but it has a higher VAT rate – has higher VAT rates than Serbia. With a profit tax rate of only 10%, which is the lowest in Europe, with a salary and contribution tax, a fiscal burden of 38.5%, which will be below the average in Europe and the 18% VAT, which also falls within the order of lower burdens in Europe, Serbia will have one of the most attractive tax systems from the aspect of investment attractiveness. What are the effects of the regions? If we assume that the average gross salary was at the end of last year 25,514 dinars, according to the current law, the burden on 100 dinars of net wage is 73.1%. Now the average is down to 62.7%. However, disbursement across certain cities, i.e. regions, is different. In Belgrade, for example, where the average gross salary was in this period of 32.209 dinars, 73.1% was a net wage burden, now falling to 63.8% under this law in Belgrade. In Novi Sad, from 73.1%, it decreases to 63.8%, same as in Belgrade, in Cačka from 73.1% to 61.2%, since there is a slightly lower salary, so there is a higher discharge, in Leskovac from 73.1% to 59.9%, so it goes below 60%. The lowest burden is in municipalities like Svrlig, where the current burden is 81% and will be reduced to 53%. So whoever hires someone in Svrlig, in the White Palanca, in southern Serbia or in some other less developed municipalities in Serbia, will have far greater tax and salary tax relief than those who work in northern Serbia or Belgrade. Also, we introduce special tax incentives for youth employment, then persons over 45, as well as persons with disabilities. As far as young people are concerned, we have two kinds of perks. Generally, it is exempt from the salary tax of employers who are currently unemployed and are under 30 years of age, and it is exempt from paying taxes on salaries and contributions to the burden of employers within three years of the employment of trainees under 30 years of age and is released for two years and taxes and contributions to the burden of the employer if they employ all others who are under 30 years of age and are on the Bureau for at least three months. In doing so, it is necessary that this employment be carried out indefinitely, so it is a condition in the law, it cannot be for a certain time, but if it employs someone indefinitely under 30 years of age who does not pay taxes, or contributes to the employer's burden, it is in some way a good attempt to reduce unemployment among the youngest, which is usually the largest in the country. So, the problem of unemployment is the biggest problem in Serbia right now, and it is the biggest in the youth group of up to 30 years, since the start of the transition has reduced the possibility of them finding a job and now we need to find all possible solutions to enable them to be employed. Also, the employer is released from the payment of income taxes and contributes to the employer's three-year burden if he engages indefinitely a person with disabilities. There are many disabled people who are also able to work for certain activities, can work on a computer, can perform certain specific activities, and employers avoid hiring such persons for the simple reason they fear the sustainability of that employment. We want in this way to give appropriate financial incentives and certainly put them in a very privileged position, to motivate employers to make it easier for these people, who, by accident, to find a permanent job. On the other hand, we suggest that for those over 45 years of age who are at least six months old at the unemployment bureau, they get appropriate tax incentives and exemptions. Therefore, a full tax exemption of two-year-old earnings is foreseen for an employer who employs persons over 45 years of age or over 50 years of age, with a difference in one shade. If someone over 45 is employed, then the employer is exempt from salaries and taxes and 80% contributes to the employer's burden, and if he hires someone over 50 years old, then he also releases the salary tax and 100% contributes to the employer's burden. I'd just like to say that then there's going to be a fiscal burden on young people's profits. So, if someone from September 1st, when this measure for stimulating and hiring young people, disabled and over 45 years of age, should start to apply, employment under 30 years from September 1st instead of the current 73.1% burden on 100 net wage dinars will be only 24.7%. This means that only a contribution to the burden of employees will be paid, so that the person employed will have health insurance, retirement and unemployment insurance, according to mandatory social security laws, or according to the OECD method, then this rate will be 19.8%. I already told you 38.5% will be on average, and for youth employment it will be 19.8% and it is extremely attractive and low. As for employment burdens older than 45 years, from the current 73.1% will be reduced to 29.6% for those over 45 years and 24.7% for over 50 years. Therefore, only 24.7 dinars are paid on 100 dinars, as taxes are not paid over a period of two years under the proposal of this law. Also, the law proposes to release the tax benefits that young people earn for the results achieved during schooling. In other words, when students and students achieve above average results and are rewarded for this, they will not pay taxes on these awards. Tax release for jubilee awards for employees is also foreseen. As far as farmers are concerned, for calendar 2006/2007. The year is completely tax-free, nakatastrean income. Therefore, there is no tax on catastar income, as in 2004 or 2005. Liberation continues in both this and the following year. As far as farmers are concerned, one more thing is planned, and it is not the subject of this law. It is planned to amend a sublegal act which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and to separate payment accounts for the payment of health and pension insurance, so that farmers can verify their health books. Because we have a case that only ten percent of the payment of contributions based on the payments of farmers, and since for 20, 30 years, the debts of the Pension Insurance Fund have accumulated, it is not realistic that these debts are settled, and therefore many farmers do not have the opportunity to verify their health books, and we are going to allow this change to separate payment accounts and that everyone who pays these contributions for healthcare can verify their health book. So these were tax exemptions. Of course, at first I said someone had to pay more, and these are richer layers. We predict progress on the annual income tax of citizens. If you remember, under the current law, all those who had over 1,200,000 dinars in the last year had to pay taxes at that rate of 10%. Now we're changing that part of the law and introducing progress, by reducing the censorship first. It will no longer be 1,200,000, so far it has been a quadruple average profit, we are reducing that limit to a triple annual profit, which was about a million dinars per year last year. So it would be like instead of 1,200,000 dinars, the census was 1,000,000 dinars. In other words, anyone who makes over a million dinars, as measured by last year's salaries, would pay as much as millions and up a 10% tax, and if a salary greater than a six-fold salary is realised, which was 1,900,000 dinar in the last year, that amount of the difference will be paid annually at a rate of 15%. So two feet are being introduced. The 10% rate remains as so far until the six-fold average salary, and over the six-fold the 15% rate is introduced, thus gaining a progressive rate in taxation for domestic natural persons, therefore for residents. As for foreigners, namely residents posted abroad, the censorship is reduced from a 10-fold average salary to a five-fold. So there was a censorship in the current law 3,000,000 per salary last year, and now that would be five times, about 1,600,000 dinars. More than 1,600,000 would be paid at a 10% rate, and if paid over an eight-year average salary, which is 2.5 million dinars, they have 15% higher tax rates, as well as domestic natural persons. So these would be the most important changes to the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Contributions, where we introduce another option in the Law on Contributions, which is that local self-government, the Republic and other state bodies can make a decision to make contributions from their budgets to artists. In other words, the same principle of payment remains, but if the authority of local self-government, city or republic determines that it is an artist who deserves more attention, then by decision of these authorities they can pay instead contributions to compulsory social security. So, to conclude, the application of this law in general has been since 1 January 2007, but the application of these incentives for the employment of young, disabled and over 45 years is now from 1 September this year. The aim of lawmaking is to, on the one hand, encourage employment, but on the other hand to encourage investment in our country. We're trying to make different economic policy measures more attractive to investment and this is one of the laws that should and I'm sure it will contribute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27477	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27478	I have to say, there are two good laws ahead of us and the DSS supports both. If I had an obligation to comment on these two draft laws in one sentence, then I would say that the laws are good and it is a pity that we did not get them from Minister Dinkic and the Republic Government earlier. I think it was something that Serbia needed, that tax discharge, of course, with the need for tax police to do their job regularly. I think what can be seen, when it comes to the realisation of budget revenues, is the fact that income from VAT and from the work of the Tax Administration, from their commitment that the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budgets of local self-government be met in that percentage that is needed, given the date of this year, I think it's doing well. Certainly, there are difficulties that date not only from the work of this Republic government, but from earlier and certainly that interventions are needed in this part. What I would particularly stress is the need for the tax police to look at what is done in local self-governments, and I would ask Minister Dinkic to strengthen that sector, therefore, the financial control sector, because it seems to me that the number of inspectors in the budget inspection is insufficient to accompany all of that, because on the one hand, we all advocate that equal and in the right way citizens are burdened with tax expenditures, burdens, we all advocate that it be done in one fair way, but it is unacceptable that this budget money, which is being collected from citizens, is being spent in one inappropriate way. I would especially point out that it is necessary in the urban sector to cast an emphasis and inspections should look at what is done in the local self-government of the town of Pogorec, the municipality of Pogorec, to see how the laws are bypassed, you have just mentioned the income tax of the citizens, to see how the capital gains are bypassed. It's one form of organized crime, and I think one tour of the budgetary inspections of the Povorec municipality would do a lot of things, baren when it comes to justice. So, these two laws, not to repeat the words of the minister, are certainly an indication of the clear definition of the Republic government that the reduced burdens want to be simply guaranteed that Serbia becomes a single market. In obtaining investments that would encourage not only our citizens, but foreign investments, we certainly need to be a forward market. It's basically a tax charge. In that sense, I am optimistic, and we at the DSS are thinking that there is a period of transition that brings a lot of difficulties in the lives of our fellow citizens, but we cannot be optimistic about such laws and will certainly follow the results. This tax disbursement, with appropriate financial discipline, I think it will allow all those planned items on the divisive side, both the republican budget and the dissipating sides of the local self-government budget to be properly covered. That's it. Of course, I'll check in in part two if there's a need.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27479	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27480	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I wish my predecessor would talk a little bit more about the law, not gossiping about local self-government, because whenever we delay something when it comes to illegal construction or how certain construction facilities have been given construction permits, we get to his, as he says, collection of Salet Isakovic, former director of the Construction Directorate. All these facilities were granted permits while Mr. Slavoljub Matic was president of SO Požarec, and even with some facilities he was legalized only one floor. I can't remember who owned at least one room on that floor. When it comes to these irregularities, don't, Mr. Slavoljub Matić, teach us how to get the used ground floor permit, and you can't go upstairs. It's an exception to the Law on Planning and Construction. Let's just say that you had a place here, so it was probably that reason. Here's a solution: "The use of a part of a business space in a business and housing centre, the street Moša Pijade, Požarevac, which was built on building permit No 04-3518/2000, of 27. 12. In 2001, issued by the competent authority of SO Firevac." Mr. Slavoljub Matić, at the time you were the president of the Assembly of the Municipality. (Glory Matić, from the place: What is sin? It is a sin, if you will, to say "parts of the facility", and no one else can do it, it seems to me only you, because I have not seen anyone get permission for one room, except for the president of the municipality, but under the condition that I did not find it in the Law on Planning and Construction, that it is called Slavoljub Matic. (President: Mr. Arsic, come back to the topic, because it is not instructions to have a dialogue with MPs. ) As for the laws themselves, as the Minister, Mr. Minister, says, I must note that you perform extremely optimisticly, and here you represent the tax exemption. It is said that only in one part of an eighth of the tax paid on wages and on earnings are savings, as you said, of 31 billion dinars. I'm interested in how much of the Republic of Serbia's budget revenue is based on these taxes? It turns out that revenue based on these taxes and contributions is 240 billion dinars or 50% of total budget revenues in the country. Take the simplest digitron, paper and pen, and you'll see that it has nothing to do with what's really in the Budget Act itself, on the income side, etc. It seems to be the government's manner, that it is constantly boasting something and constantly giving certain tax incentives, or tax cuts. When you think about it a little bit, it's like that story about oil and oil derivatives. A little shyly announces a seven, eight or ten dinar pick-up, expensive oil and oil derivatives, and then suddenly, Minister Dinkic shows up and says, "We're taking down one dinar, it's gonna fuel up." That's how you brought these taxes, whether you were in the DOS at the time or were in this new little shortened DOS, but all the tax burdens that Serbian citizens have were created by your coming to power. Now you're boasting about the budget surplus, and you're not going to tell me where that budget surplus came from. You're not going to say that the budget surplus is because you've introduced milk tax, water, diapers, baby food, to agricultural re-promaterials. You're not going to say that the surplus funds in the budget, as you say, have been created by these small individual farmers being forced to pay VAT or register as craftsmen, natural persons, to perform agricultural activity. You do not question at all whether it is with its four or five hectares, which it wants to provide its own existence, it can allow such a luxury to be registered as a natural person, to run business books, to calculate the refaction of VAT, etc., in particular that it is small households, which even out of that refaction, is a significant amount for them, but they can only pay a person who would do their jobs in connection with that self-refaction. Furthermore, when it comes to these amounts that you increase and are exempt from the income tax of citizens, you have in the very income tax of citizens, which you have cited for those who receive large profits, laid down provisions that this amount of income tax is adjusted annually, and you have tied that amount to four months, that is, according to this proposal for a three-month profit law, so you went six or eight or how much. I am now interested in why there is no tax exemption in the bill itself, that the amounts are harmonised on the basis of some inflation or growth in earnings, etc. They're fixed and they can't change unless the laws are in the process of amending and supplementing the law. We've submitted the amendments. You say that ever since you came to power, growth has been higher than the cost of living and rising prices for a little bit. We didn't want to be tied to profit growth, you say he's bigger. Here, we asked our amendment that these amounts be aligned three months with the amount of cost-of-life growth. By accepting this amendment, we are interested in proving to ourselves and to the citizens that inflation is less than profit. But since we know that statistics are just a method, and that statistics can make a lot of difference and it doesn't correspond to the actual state, we suspect this is going to end. Next, you're saying that when it comes to tax exemptions on new employees, you expect bigger revenues from privatisation. Here's what it looks like when Mladjan Dinkic expects bigger revenues than privatisation. So it is said in Article 9a, a new member: no income tax is paid to citizens on the basis of the purchase price paid by the sale of capital in the process of privatising social and state capital, which is paid to a natural person in accordance with the law of up to 200 euros in dinar equivalent for each full year of employment in a privatisation entity. So, you've released a social programme for people who run out of work for up to 200 euros. And what if the employer simply in his social programme or privatisation income is more than 200 euros, the man is out of a job? Well, he's gonna have to pay his taxes, even though no one's guaranteeing his existence and new employment. That's what it says. Now you can interpret it any way you want. I'm reading what it says. Furthermore, you say about these incentives for newly opened jobs, or for newly employed persons. So it's said that you've decided to take care of faces until you're 30 years old or for people who have more than 45 years of life. I'm asking a question, Mr. Minister, and what about the faces between 30 and 45? I agree that trainees should take into account new jobs, I agree for over 45 years, but remember that persons between 30 and 45 years of age are the most capable person and you think that's why they will be very happy to be admitted to work. What about the faces, Mr. Minister, who, in the privatisation process, are out of a job without meeting one of these conditions? Does the state even think about how to take care of them or the state is only interested in this part that says they release tax payments of up to 200 euros for each year of work experience in the privatisation entity. Do people who have lost their jobs have to cope with themselves or the state, and through laws like this, they need people who are left without a job in the privatisation process to worry? The SRS has made one amendment to this member of the law, both the law on the income tax of citizens and the draft law on compulsory social security, and we believe that our solution offered is much better than that contained in the draft law by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So none of these tax exemptions we gave up in that amendment, we even gave a more favourable tax exemption in that amendment, but we also took care of the people who had lost their jobs in the privatisation process. Also, when you receive these amendments, carefully read them, for the practice so far has been that when reading these amendments at the meetings of the Assembly, you have rejected them, and in some subsequent amendments and additions to the law, you have accepted such solutions. Furthermore, when it comes to earning and taxing earnings, you have reduced it to 14% and now I am very interested in whether this is actually the new deficit in the budget of 31 billion dinars, and I argue that this could potentially reduce budget revenues by four to five billion. Or do you expect so many new jobs to be in Serbia that there will simply be some savings for taxpayers of 31 billion. However, new jobs are not planned for budget revenue, so what you are talking about and that the 31 billion-dollar savings are purely the political story of a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to, as you say, profits and income tax on citizens, that's where you've done this, you've made a division of citizens on those who have large salaries and those who have small salaries. I agree, there's supposed to be a division. Those who have low wages pay a 12% tax on payouts. Now a tax is imposed on those who have high incomes and it is called a one-year or one-time income tax for a year and it is said to have been 10% so far, provided that someone receives a salary greater than a million and 200,000 dinars, etc. Now, in order for you to re-engage yourself politically with voters, you say you're introducing a bigger tax on those who earn more money. The tax has already been introduced, but you seem to have only divided me into those very rich and rich and I don't see where the tax charge is when it comes to the most numerous and poorest layer of citizens and I don't see what the revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget are based on the income tax of citizens, which is paid at 10%. I am very interested in how much money it is in the Republic of Serbia's budget and how many millionaires or billionaires there are in Serbia. Why don't you come out one time and tell me about this pay phone? Next, there's just more technical cosmetics here when it comes to paying for estrate artists. So, they've paid once a month, now they can choose once every three months. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, why don't you introduce it for STR, SZR, SUR, why don't you bring it in for all the physical faces? That they pay their taxes three months, because they also earn some income from their work that is often smaller than certain escalating stars. Well, give them tax breaks, too, especially as you say you have extra money in your budget all the time. And with this climate when it comes to investments, etc., Mr. Minister, you bring us data from countries that are more economically developed, unfortunately some of them weren't until you came to power, to countries where there's a higher standard of living, you bring us data from countries where people can pay those taxes. It's not realistic for us to compare ourselves with such states, even if they were in our environment. And one question, Mr. Minister: when will you finally, when it comes to value added tax, which is the tax which most burdens the citizens of Serbia and all taxpayers, to reduce to some more acceptable limits for Serbian citizens, especially when it comes to agricultural producers who are the most burdened by such a single tax policy run by this government, especially in the area of finance that you personally run?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27481	Replica, finance minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27482	Thank you. Here's some clarification. Therefore, as regards Article 9a, it does not refer to severance payments, but rather to cash receipts on the basis of the purchase price fee obtained by privatisation. In other words, this is what workers and former employees get from privatising certain enterprises, freeing themselves from tax and contribution payments. So it's not about any severances. In particular, current legal solutions to the action were exempt from paying taxes and contributions, so that if workers in social enterprises received shares, then the company privatised, sold the shares and did not pay the tax on contributions. However, we have a case, why are we now adding this Article 9a, we have a case of insurance companies, for example, where there are also shares of employees and former employees, and if we didn't have this member then the hay of privatisation, specifically DDOR, would have to pay taxes, these employees, former employees, when the company sells. This is how we release them. So this is relaxation. This is just an explanation. It's not about the severances, it's about the revenues that people get when a particular company is sold. Secondly, you asked the question -- what's the discharge when the rate goes down from 14 to 12. We've calculated it precisely. That's 17 billion dinars, discharging on that basis, this rest up to 31.5 billion is based on the introduction of an untaxable censorship of 5,000 dinars. Otherwise, when we did this law, we had a dilemma, whether to cut the rate more, and not have an untaxable censorship, that was one alternative, or to reduce the rate, with the introduction and the non-taxable censorship. Looking at the parallel practice in other countries, we have seen that only we and Republika Srpska do not have an untaxable censorship in our tax system. Given that the introduction of an untaxable census is far more just because it relaxes the poorer branches, the poorer regions, we decided to make a combination. In the first model of the law that we did internally, we were thinking about reducing the rate from 14 to 10, then the discharge would be 27 billion total. So, with the combination of a five thousand census and slightly lower rate reduction, we have an even greater tax charge of 31.5 billion dinars. Another thing about entrepreneurs and artists, entrepreneurs under this law, which is not changed, has a lower tax rate than artists. Entrepreneurs have 10% tax rate and for independent artists 12%. We haven't changed the position of any other artists, except in the part where we gave artists the opportunity for local self-governments, cities and republics to make contributions on their behalf. One more thing I forgot about when you mentioned entrepreneurs, we're raising a price for cobwebs from the current two million to three million dinars, this law. That's what I missed to say in the opening statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27483	I thank Minister Dinkic, Slavoljub Matić answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27484	Now I've explained myself with my colleagues from the SRS. It is clear to all of us that neither I nor anyone from my rope and wider family has ever owned a business space in that building, and that is true, and Mr Arsic knows that very well. In the end, about how I worked while I was in office as president of the SO Fireman best testify and the fact that the SRS committees also nominated me, elected president of the Assembly. I don't know why they'd run someone by mistake and vote in the constitutive session of SO Fireman. That's the truth. (Zoran Krasic from the scene: and corrected the mistake. ) You did not replace me, but I resigned because the coalition could not function. That's some truth. I think we can talk about some things very openly here as colleagues. When I mentioned the need for a budget inspection to come and visit the Firehouse Local Self-Government, I was referring to a certain click in the urban mafia, which is in connection with investors, with the part of the judiciary. In the municipal court, you also have very suspicious books, and that is one form of organised crime that simply requires the tax police or the budgetary inspection to bring in professional people who will simply see what they are doing, how tax obligations are bypassed. That's one call. As a national MP, I feel obliged to call on the minister to engage in such a thing, so that they would evenly burden all citizens, not especially those tycoons from a previous age, privileged, who half of Serbia bought it, and not their own, but, above all, our money, robbed in the 1990s. It's some truths I stand for, and I don't think we should be in a fight here, no one present here, I think we all have to be on that path. If we're clouding that path with some false accusations, the guy -- you're corrupt, you've got some bars, etc., we're simply clouding the basic subject, and the basic theme is tax burden, justly distributed to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for Mr. Arsic's exposure, I would only correct one part of his exposure. Namely, registered agricultural households are not obliged to run business books and I think that, as a responsible man, you need to know that you do not bring one delusion to the public in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27485	I thank Mr Matic, the replica of Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27486	My colleague Matic, at the very least, told the lie. My colleague Matic, you have discussed with Mrs Radet and me what a beautiful shopping mall is in Pozarevec, which is close to the Krug market, where there are beautiful places to publish, owned by individual MPs. I really don't know what you're talking about. You and my colleague, Radet, have discussed something else. I admired what a wonderful building it is and how there are beautiful bars of different squares, with different usage permits. Recently, I was in Pozarevec for the magnificent promotion of the book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj "A witness of defence in the Hague process of Slobodan Milosevic" and asked my colleague Arsic - what kind of building is this? He says -- it's a mall, there's really nice places to publish. I don't know what you're talking about. I talked to you and discussed a case of yours and a problem? I know there's something you're doing here, and I don't know what you're doing. And if the mall were nice, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27487	Thank you. The word is by MP Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27488	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here in a day like this, for the first time about laws, what I would like to point out and what a special impression is about this law, these tax exemptions relating to categories of trainees, young people who would like to be first employed under 30 years of age, to a category of under 30 who are not first employed, to a category of people with disabilities and to categories older than 45 years, or over 50 years of age, when it comes to the Mandatory Contribution Act. Why is this important? Because there are 311.032 people under the age of 30 on the National Employment Service's record, 55,091 of which are second jobs and 255,941 of those who can be called trainees. There are 298,214 persons over 45 years of age on the record of this service. We don't have exact data as old as 50 years old. I'm sure every single one of you once had a chance to find yourself in a hair salon, a beauty salon, or in a store, when someone who looks like an inspector shows up at the door, where you can only see people running away and going away, so it's young people working on black. Where in this law do we see a chance for these young people? How can this look, in particular, one stimulation that would be on a gross profit of 20,000 dinars, what will it look like after September 1st when these laws start to apply and when we have all these discharges, what will we have? We're going to have a gross base of 20,000, we have 5,000 untaxed, which this law provides for all of these categories. So we have a full tax exemption when it comes to these categories and we have, when it comes to the contributions paid to the employer's burden, except for the category over 45 where the release is 80%, the full exemption from these contributions. What you actually see with such a single bill, those who have had the chance to do the salary bill or to hear how it's done, realize that nearly 5,000 dinars per employee when it's a pay account, if the gross salary is 20,000, is less pay for the employers. If we talk about a category of 600,000 people, they need to be convinced that these new legal changes will help them get that permanent employment indefinitely. How will they be convinced? The legislator therefore predicted the duration of this privilege. For some categories, not to quote now, we all have a law ahead of us, three years, and for some categories two years. The law also predicted that the number of employees, found at the employer on September 1st, could only grow and that the right to use these benefits should only be given to employers where the total number of employees is growing. Three more years, or two years, of control, or time, for which no total reduction in the number of employees should occur. Of course, the law also provides for what if, in certain cases, the will of the employee ceases employment. It's 15-day deadlines, where it can be replaced by the same group of employed persons, and that the relief remains, but for the rest of the time, so, from the beginning of its use. Therefore, all of these categories are in a position to provide themselves with employment. Of course, I have to mention those over 45 years old, because among that category of people, and especially among these older people, there are many who are one to two years old until retirement and where this full release, for those who are missing some years until retirement, will be very serious, because in that case employers will only account for contributions to income health, contributions to PIO and contributions to the unemployed. All other taxes and contributions calculated on earnings have been released. This represents a significant opportunity to resolve the issue of these missing years until they retire to these people. We know that many of those affected by the transition have lost their jobs. This law gives them a chance for employers to pay attention to this, to these significantly reduced fees that they will have to employ such people. Other categories of law, of course, I think they're precise enough. In my opinion, these provisions that I was talking about are the most important, because they increase and give the opportunity to increase employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27489	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We are going according to the order of Members of the People who have applied for work in the joint principled review on the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax and on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The first to speak was the MP of the people, Toma Busetic, and then the MP of the people Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Bushetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Minister Dinkic, a series of reliefs proposed by the Ministry of Finance in the field of tax policy, i.e. the income tax of citizens, as well as reliefs in the area of compulsory social security can at first sight mean very determined and very significant measures that will lead to some of the ultimate goals that Minister Dinkic spoke of, lead to new employment, mass employment and new investments. All those measures that are proposed, personally, I don't think it's going to give any greater effect. While all these measures are designed as good measures, they will have no effect either when it comes to job creation, when it comes to new employment, and I don't think it will work when it comes to some new investment. When it comes to income tax, the most important thing is to cut taxes from 14% to 12%. I don't think that's going to give us any good results, given that we're going to have a smaller budget. Minister Dinkic spoke of having a smaller budget for 30 billion dinars on this basis. Employers, and above all these private workers, already largely steal the state, still have a large number of undeclared workers. I would recommend that Minister Dinkic take a look at these people who report, and I am talking about the private sector, which they report to and with what expertise they report them to. Most of them were reported either one large mass of minimum insurance workers, on a minimum basis, and those with higher and higher schools were mostly registered with secondary schools. We already have one big theft, one grey zone again, and besides, a few days ago speaking about the poverty reduction strategy, it is said that today in Serbia the grey zone, the grey economy participates with 30%, and what is indeed a very large figure. Even less, I believe that these effects will be achieved in the area of social security when, above all, pension and disability insurance and health insurance. The most important goal is new employment, new jobs, new salaries, new contributions for both health and PIO. In my belief, all these reliefs won't contribute to any new employment, we won't have that larger number of employees, maybe something minimal in some minimum percentages. On the other hand, Minister Dinkic did not talk about what savings will be in this area and in the area of social security, how much we will save. It is certainly, at least for me, that the better solutions were that we gave that money to those who needed it the most, and in this area there is a great lack of funding, and when we talk about a pension and disability fund and when we talk about a health fund, regardless of what these governments are doing to prisons with existing laws, ways of accounting, etc. I would like to remind you, and above all, Minister Dinkic, that in the last five or six years, under the company of various reforms in the area of PIO, this necessary fund of funds has been nearly halved. Now the average pensions are about 60% of the average salary. With such a fund, we still have a situation that the participation of the PIO budget is about 40%, which is a large percentage, because we know very well that general stability in the PIO Fund is only possible if that fund is financed from the original funds. We know that the original funds are primarily from employees, from new salaries, from new employees. Again, we have one bad experience when we talk about additional funds, which are given out of the budget that international financial organisations very often require all governments in transition to deprive those funds at one point and say, now there are no additional funds from the budget and then we would have a big collapse in the PIO Fund. We have bad experiences in many countries, in Republika Srpska, and in some other countries, where retail pensions were paid only to what extent the original funds were. So, what's collected from the contributions, what's collected from the employees on the line of contributions. That's why we've always given priority to the original means, because the original means are the most important. Only the original funds guarantee the stability of this fund. Already today is 40% of the pension budget, I want to repeat that we had a reduction in these needs during all five or six years, we had a Swiss formula, with a adjustment every three months with 50% of the cost of living and salary growth, we now have a six-month alignment mostly with the cost of living, 25% are just profits. Despite all these measures, in addition to having a full-time pension account instead of ten of the most favourable years, so a dozen of these unpopular measures have been made during all these years from 2000 to today, and yet we have a pension fund that is small, pensions are very small. According to some of my data, we in Serbia have hundreds of thousands of people who have pensions below 10,000 dinars. Today in terms of general cost, in conditions where the current has accumulated fifty times compared to 2000, when heating has accumulated thirty times, when all this has accumulated so much, in these conditions of these 10,000 dinars, and even less, these pairs of pensioners are not enough for the most essential needs. That's why I think that some big release on this line, whether it's about contributions, whether it's about taxes, I don't think it's going to give effect in terms of new employment, and on the other hand, as the minister predicted that we have a surplus in the budget, we have great difficulties in all these areas, simply the lack of money is great in the Pension Insurance Fund and in the Health Insurance Fund. In order to maintain the current relationship between pensions and salaries, and this relationship is 60%, that the average pension cannot be less than 60% of the average salary, that is, the amendment to the SPS adopted here and which has put the IMF arrangement off for several months, extremely significant and allow at least this relationship to be maintained at the moment. I don't think this relationship can be maintained by these measures proposed by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, when we talk about another area of social security, mandatory social security, the health fund is also very important. The Health Fund is mainly financed from the original funds. I think that budget participation is minor, I can't remember how much for this year, maybe five or ten billion, maybe not so much, it's really little compared to the total amount that might be about 200 billion, but the fact that in the health fund the situation is very difficult, regardless of the praises and the resolution ministry that the situation is very good now, that it's much better than it was. According to all the indicators we have, the situation is no better, the maltene is worse. The insurance companies have less and less rights, and we know that certain participations have been introduced for hospital treatment. We know that in pharmacies, almost all drugs are paid, and we know that these numbers are very high. The rows for complex operations are very large, even when it comes to diagnostics, without talking about the VMA manual. We know it's one of the most respected clinics, getting directions to VMA today is harder than anything. The availability of treatment for all insurance companies must be guaranteed, and regardless of the prices and everything else, everyone must be provided in terms of basic health care. On the other hand, I believe that the wrong moves have been made lately in this area and when we talk about a decision by the Ministry of Health that almost overnight 2,000 dentists and all accompanying officers are left without pay. I think that's a bigger number. It's a catastrophic mistake. Simply, patients are deprived of treatment. Today, if someone pays 900 dinars or 500 dinars, depending on the case, for tooth extraction, for treatment, they're huge figures. The population is underprivileged, and on the other hand people who graduate from extremely difficult universities end up in dentistry, they're on white bread. They say the market is everything, let everyone go to the market, they'll find a catch. It's very difficult today. Those aren't big funds, Minister. Dentists should be paid. There are not many in Serbia, because I simply remember 2001, 2002 and 2003 in the DOS government the most about the market, that everyone has to earn, that everyone has to work, said the leaders of the Democratic Party who did not have a single day of work. The first books were received in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a big problem when it comes to the market, that everyone has to cope, that everyone has to bother to get a piece of bread, most often those who have never worked anywhere, who have very good living, who have great resources, of course Chad, Djindjic, they were the ones who talked about the market most often, that we all have to go out on the market and that we can all manage in the right way, and of course very hard for people to manage. Today, whoever's out of a job almost can't find it. One more thing, I'm telling you this as a man who is head of G17, although these days the idea of decentralisation and health homes has entered into the big door, to belong to local self-government, and to be financed by the Health Insurance Fund, I think it's a big mistake. We'll have local self-government set up directors. We'll have nothing more. If he stays on it, but most likely he won't stay on it, but in a year or two, the representatives of another government's ministry, of course the democratic bloc, would never do it, now let local self-government finance health homes. That's impossible. We're going to have a situation of shutting down homes of health, and we're going to have a situation where some privates buy homes of health, and we're going to have a situation where people can't be treated on any basis. That's one terrible thing. It may not be the time for this right now, but it is about all these laws because Minister Dinkic has proposed certain discharges, all for new employment, new contributions, new budget fillings, funds. I think these measures are very low range and we're simply not going to achieve anything like this. What is important and what we want in particular to be potent when we talk about the number of employees, it is most important, Minister Dinkic, that there be no further layoffs. You're an advocate for restructuring public enterprises. Maybe this year or next year we'll have a big discharge in EPS, Telekom, NIS, Railways. These people receive salaries, pay in funds, pension and health care, these people, through their salaries, are full of budgets. And therefore, if we have a situation in Serbia tomorrow or a year from now that 50,000 people are out of work on that basis, these measures of yours are hardly going to employ 5,000 or 10,000, and on the other hand 50,000 are out of work. We'll have even less resources, less money in all the funds, much less in the budget. Today, regardless of what the budget is made as well and the minister says we have all the items, the teachers are paid, the healthcare workers are paid through the fund, pensioners are mostly good works through the budget, all paid out, but simply today the purchasing power is less than in some time our government in the mid-1990s. The average salary was 100 or 200 marks, but with 100 marks in the 1990s it was possible to buy more and pay more services than today with 300 or even 500 euros. It's a very clear thing, and what needs special attention, we have a huge discharge coming up, even in some benevolent companies, and it's bought by foreigners. In Vranje, in the Duvanska industry, it is said that a large number of people will be out of work. There may be IDIN, but what's the point in all this? The point is, because no matter what money foreigners give, it is said social programme, etc., so that money means nothing because today and 20 and 30,000 euros for these companies mean nothing, because people can spend it for a year, two or three, and there is no hope behind it. The contracts, unfortunately, were made as they were made, were mass layoffs in these good companies. Just to mention Cementar in Paracino, because there were 2,800 workers working there in 2000, and they received salaries, and these salaries were close to the current salaries, and today they are 700. It's a simple bill now. So in 2000, 2,800 workers paid taxes, paid pension funds, for health insurance, and today 700, but they announce that they would also reduce, that they would be 300 or 400. Please release the new technologies, the most important thing in Serbia is new employment, what Minister Dinkic was talking about, but these measures he proposed, we will most likely vote for these measures, but we want to point out that all that is done, that it means nothing much, the most important thing is business. We had a situation in Serbia when it was the worst time, in many cities, and I will take three cities - Kruševac, Vranje and Jagodina. In the 1990s, a large number of companies worked in these cities, in Kruševec as many as a dozen companies, in Jagodina, Vranj, and today almost everything is shut down in all these cities. Nobody works, nobody gets paid, no taxes, no fund payments, no pension payments, no health insurance. But there is hope for Minister Dinkic, too, there is hope, because a month or 20 days ago he said he might step down from some new arrangements with the IMF and that would be good. If he keeps his word, it'll be very good, because we've witnessed that we've been prisoners, at least these six years, international financial organizations, or their warrants. They ordered new democratic forces to sell out the best companies. In the sale of the best DOS companies, ministers took big money. It was said here in the Assembly, about 2003, where DOS MPs spoke of Djelic and another minister, I won't mention his name because I know him well, but they took big money and everyone had their own privatisation, so he took the one from Lukoila, the other from the cement factory, the third from the tobacco industry. It's nothing new, because in all transition countries, there's been a huge bribery of ministers everywhere, there's been a big robbery. After that, after these events, means bribing ministers, selling out the best businesses, there's been a demand that we have to raise all the prices, so we've raised the electricity, maybe not 50 times, but it's collected 20 times. I know the heat's up 25 times, because there were two dinars per square, and now there's 50 dinars, like in what city. The third requirement was to liberalise the capital market. Of course, this liberalisation envisioned new investments, and new investments did not occur at all, but there was bankruptcy of banks and bankruptcy of the economy. Today, Serbia's economy is literally bankrupt, because today in Serbia everything is shut down, it's doing nothing. Take any city, give an example, where we can say, here, that factory might be this around India, but the Minister is not the right measure. The foreign factor that dominated Serbia, they will help this Jesic to allegedly show that in Serbia, there are some from the Civil League, who accepts everything they say, will be given some credit, a tobacco factory is being done and it is a privileged thing and let's not look at India, but look at other cities. In other cities, it's almost all shut down. Now we've had this poverty reduction strategy, I'm a member of that committee, and poverty is getting bigger, there's no poverty reduction. We can talk, but it's a fact. However, that strategy was brought by the government of Zoran Zivkovic, but it is all described in the books, nothing new, because all of this was happening to these countries in transition. Of course, it happened to us, too. When I say that perhaps a good shift is that Minister Dinkic will seriously consider a new arrangement, because the new arrangement would mean new commitments and the question is to get out of all of this. Simply, these laws that are proposed, I don't think they're going to have an effect, because they wrote how they were written. There's some major objections we can't give to the law. We have a tax discharge here, but this total effect is going to be minimal, and I think it's better if this money is used, so 31 billion, there are a lot of users in the budget that are very hard to survive with those money they get. On the other hand, I would take the opportunity to ask Minister Dinkic, why such euphoria in his party after a referendum in Montenegro. It's a simple matter, my people, the common state had to survive. And she's primarily for reasons, we are the same people, I'm a pure Serb, I have nothing to do with Montenegrins, but we are the same people, but all the bigger countries, when it comes to the same people, that's much better. It's better for economic reasons, it's better for the sake of safety, for the sake of the market, there are a thousand reasons why I shouldn't talk about these cultural, traditional and all the other reasons. Thousands of reasons to survive the common state. I don't know if Dinkic is aware that the huge aid for Serbia-Montenegro's separation has been given to the European Union. Now Solana has been thinking about surviving a common state. That's just not true. What's with all the euphoria? We really need to regret what happened. Besides, who brought victory to this separatist current? The Albanians brought it. You know when people don't know, eternal enemies, that's how it turns out, and let those stories go, the eternal enemies of the Serbian people, if they said we're going to vote for an independent Montenegro, right now we need to know, that we are the most illiterate, that a very good solution for the common state to survive. Besides, if the state were as small as possible, the Americans would have broken into 50 countries, so if someone told California today -- if you wanted independence, most likely that governors and senators, you'd say, what the hell, California is the fourth in economic terms in the world. And even many other states in America, I'm giving you America's most complex example. But they'll choke any separatism. Unfortunately, what happened with us happened. The epilogue of everything can be that Montenegrins or our brothers become an easy prey of eternal enemies and that the process of breaking up and breaking Serbia continues. Anyway, we need a new strategy in these new conditions. The strategy must talk about how we will treat our territories, Kosovo, because there is no independence between Kosovo and Metohija without signing someone in Serbia. That solution can be imposed, but it can't be a long breath. We need a new strategy or a clear strategy in restoring the population, a clear employment strategy, a clear strategy in the field of health, education and all the most important areas. In the end, just one more sentence, as a member of the government, I ask Minister Dinkic how is it possible in this system of information or information system Telecom 064 to be the news that yesterday in Kosovo elections were held? It is understood that the election is at stake in Bujanovac, Medvedji and Presevo. Is it possible that the state doesn't understand it the right way?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27491	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27492	When it was a flag, there was less danger of falling on the back. This kind of danger is very pronounced. For the public, I think it's a bit of a mix-up order of agendas. Mr Dinkic, I am simply surprised that his authority, however, Labus signed, did not use it to get into the agenda of the draft law on conditions for employment and the work of foreign citizens. It probably had to be the first item of the agenda today. It's a bill that entered the procedure on 21 June 2005. That's the bill you made. However, you may be disgusted that Labus signed it, but there are good solutions to this law. I think you had to agree these two bill proposals with some natural during things after what happened, and you know it yourself, after that euphoria, I had no impression that you were persecuting Montenegro, nor that Djindjic was persecuting Montenegro, nor that Kostunica was persecuting Montenegro. However, they have so euphorically celebrated some referendum. They say "freedom at last". I don't feel like you've been chasing them. If you were really stalking them, you shouldn't have chased them, it's not nice. I don't want to talk about any of our amendments, because we have a lot of amendments, so we're going to take advantage of the opportunity to dissipate it and explain what the gaps are, etc. What is characteristic of these two laws? When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, just to remind you, it was reportedly passed in 2001, so it changed in 2002, so it changed in 2004, so the whole 2005 was unchanged, and now we're going to 2006 and it's changing. When it comes to the Law on Contributions for Mandatory Social Insurance, it was brought in 2004, you proposed it here, it was changed last year, and now it's changing again. I have to tell you at first, it's still in a mutual relationship, because of these changes you've just put into these two bill proposals, you haven't quite figured out the radicals about the discussions we've had before on these bill proposals. You've tried something of what we've been saying to install here. That's what my predecessors were talking about, and it's about these releases. But you didn't get it right. Here's why you didn't get it right. When a country has such a terrible surplus, as you presented it to us that it happens in 2006, then it is not necessary to access selective reduction or reduction of burdens, but rather to go universally, to cover all categories. That's the first thing. For what? Because, essentially, these two rules are based on one principle when it comes to taxes, that citizens, proportionate to their economic capabilities and material conditions, participate in financing the functions of the state, and this first law that regulates taxes primarily refers to this, because taxes are collected to fund the military, the state administration and all those functions of the state. When it comes to this second law, when it comes to contributions, then I get the impression that you forgot that in the meantime, primarily thanks to the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Miroslav Labus, two or three very significant laws have been passed. We have some principled objections about these laws, about some solutions, but these laws are certainly necessary, probably in something a little better text and better solutions. It is a law that regulates voluntary pension-involvement insurance and one that provides additional pension insurance through insurance companies, including the one on investment funds. These are all the things that our society needs, but I think you misunderstood us here. The next remark that can be addressed to this bill, you cannot do with these things that you change to significantly improve your popularity from 1.9 to three or five percent, which is only in that function. Between you and Labus, the difference is that he left right away, because he thinks he left that path, as he said, "we hit the wall with our heads," and you said, "We won't right away, we're going to September". Here, you put in September as a deadline in these laws, since the application of certain provisions. The second question you can't answer is, why didn't you put this root change in 2004? There were conditions in 2004. Third, the idea certainly deserves special attention. The idea is based on the following: employers should be stimulated to receive employment, especially these two or three categories of citizens, which are trainees, so those who are first employed indefinitely, and younger than 30 years of age, and these two categories of 45 and 50 years of age. It's for every support. That's two problems. But I think you chose the wrong way. You've done it for two or three years, so you've conditioned -- if something happens within that time limit, then all releases don't apply. Let me tell you how the market thinks, with these employers. They say -- two and a half years from now, this government has proven it has a selective approach to taxes and contributions. In what sense a selective approach. Well, with the NN face, the state is fully expressing all its powers, and even, by your order, in some situations there has been brutality, and the U.S. citizen simply doesn't come or, if the inspection comes and finds any irregularities, then the inspector can get hurt, because it can't be made public, and then the other apparatus is included, etc. That's what people know. They call on the phone, and they say -- I'm not in good relations with G17 in my place, I can't use it, etc. So this selective approach has made a very bad political assumption to apply these provisions which, in any case, can be objected to, but in principle there is no room for any sharper objection. Another problem is that you continue to insist that you do not define what funds they are and what treatment they have certain means. I've tried to explain more than once to you, I've tried those in the DS, but these are hopeless cases, it's not worth explaining, because they don't know what they're talking about at all. That Djelic of yours, you just sent him to explain, that man fell from Mars. Let me explain to you what it's all about, if you've moved on to the gross profit system, then the total gross profit is my personal income, and I can't spend it all, but there's also a commitment to pay the mandatory contributions that go to the burden of my earnings, and that's my assets, and that's probably where we agree. You'll have to agree with me, Mr. Dinkic, whether you want to or not. If it's anything else, then it's the Parivoditch. That genius talks about private property as a right to life, so first the right to property was created, and embryos were created, and then Croats, that's his tactics. Now, if that's the case, then you can't give any of the other laws different legal positions of funds. Look, you guys here, you're making some kind of discount and some kind of benefits if the payoff goes through the employer. And why are you punishing an employee who earned his money? Here, you don't become a minister tomorrow, get a job at a company, work with someone as a consultant and get paid, and your employer isn't able to close a contract, access a pension program, and you want to make sure you're on a voluntary pension and disability insurance. So when you receive the profit, the part goes for the contribution, the part goes for the tax, and what you'd like to pay to access some voluntary pension disability fund you can't or you've limited it to three, now to five, I think five grand. Why, why are you making a difference in resources? Is that personal property? Is that what a man earned? Look, it used to be net and gross, so the net was personal property, not to say private property, but a very personal property, I use those old terms, and then you go to gross, so you say, that's the cost, that's the real profit, so the worker's supposed to ask, and he says, "I've singled out this much for health care, so much for retirement, so much for unemployment, etc. Why? Now, those who talk about social justice and see it as pure socialist justice, it has nothing to do with the name of parties, right away. After all, you are not the authors of this, since DS is a member of the international and you when you say you support the Socialist International, I immediately interpret that you are supporting Boris Tadic. You're not gonna let yourself do that. Look out, there's a big difference. If it is based on the principle of social justice, but the right of property is guaranteed, what the worker has earned give him to have it, and you condition him that he must through the employer, and the employer, and when he makes some combinations he sees a benefit to gain for himself. Why are you doing this? Here, you've been running it for two years. I know what you can use as an argument, so you can say - well, there's a danger, if that's what it would be, if someone were to raise funds in consumption. Well, he can't. Or you could say, at the end of the year, it could provide some tax exemption based on these investments. Well, he can't do that either. You didn't predict that possibility either. Why are you doing this? Furthermore, there are fundamentally problems that are essentially not defined here what are mandatory contributions. Just to remind you, a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is essentially a good provision, which speaks of mandatory social security, which prescribes that obligation for both employees and employers. What's he prescribing? In order for the state not to take over 250% of concerns over the social situation of citizens, but to ensure that citizens and employers lose their jobs during a certain period, under certain conditions, take care to ensure social security during the period when a person loses his job capacity, which is 65 years of life. But what, then, is the contribution paid by the employer, what is the function of this contribution? And no one's wanted it here for 20 years to solve it. From that period whenever any payment becomes a social property through that SIZ of pension and disability insurance, and later in the distribution goes according to some other criteria, so the payment was by one principle, distributed by another principle, and one and the other principle was based on injustice. Why? Because there was no connection between the one who singles out and his assets, these leanings are still being transferred, etc. It is transmitted, and that injustice cannot be corrected by anyone, and apparently it takes some transitional period when these clean bills could be reduced. I have no intention of commenting specifically on any amendment, but I have to tell you that many things are not logical in what you're doing. The first biggest illogicality is: imagine Miloljub Albianic has submitted amendments to Mlađin's bill. So is it possible that your law is not so good that he even had to have Milosevic Albianic submit the amendments? For me, it all seems shocking to us in the Assembly. When Albianic submits the amendments, it means that it burned to the nails, meaning that something, Mr Dinkic, was so messed up that he was the only one as president of the parliamentary group who had to engage to correct it. And he's a famous mathematician, you know. He had to work hard, he wrote amendments for both of Junior's laws, I'm sure to tell you something I'm a little surprised, he knew to name the number of members, he didn't make a mistake. You know, there's something wrong. Furthermore, as you think the effects of these as planned by you in this country, not to mention now what my predecessor mentioned here, but you can count on your fingers what he's doing, you can count everything he's doing. You know, it looks very nice in mathematics when you say -- I don't know, 70 to 40%, so that's 31 billion in mass, a bunch of money. Well, a lot, some formulas, etc. That sounds very nice, but it just sounds like nothing else. As before the September elections in 2000, it sounded very nice to say -- here, let this one leave the government, here at the 6.5 billion-billion line, as Batic said - ma'am, immediately comes here. They're gone. Destroyed banks, formed new banks, washed money, sold-out businesses, expelled people from work, all democratic and expert. So, you've expertly kicked people out of work, not you, but in continuity, you're the ones with hackers when you're in, that's another thing, but we'll talk about it later. There's a record, and the SUP made, everything exists, and witness statements, there'll be time for that. How do you mean who can apply this law? Now, you tell me how this law will apply to a man who has a small firm, a dozen employees, and now he's thinking about what I'm going to get, some discount, something small, whether two or three years I'm going to have to do this, I can't reduce the number of workers. I don't know how you imagined that within 15 days to change workers, if that one went away within 15 days should receive another. Have you read the Labour Act? There are some provisions there as to what is received and what is received. Next, it's no good when the law in some provision fixates the amount of something, it's no good. And where you put 35,000 or 5,000 or 13,000 etc, it's not good when it's fixed. Why? Because then there's no way to follow life. It's a big problem, because then there's a need to change something, and then the whole law has to change, to run the whole machine, and you're saying that this year there's going to be inflation, as much as you say. Surely it won't be in the mass and value of the amount that's listed here. You need to take some criteria and tie to something with growth, whether the cost of life, whether the price rises to little, whether one 50%, another 50% doesn't matter, but just the determination to define in a certain position something that is released, to which it counts, etc., really doesn't make sense. We have made quite an amendment to this bill. We'll do our best to explain what our basic objections are going through, but I don't want the public to get it wrong right now, especially after one introduction that the minister gave, so it's media prepared, so now it's going to start, you know how it goes - Studio B, B92, National Television, etc. And only to talk about these aspects of a vision of what is proposed, release for three years, for two years, so stimulation etc. I think if you're already talking about it, you should look at the other aspect, that we're in a year when it's a terrible surplus, so big that we'll even pay back our debts. If this is all so positive, then reduce the rate at which the income tax is carried out, reduce the rate at which the contributions are paid. But there's a problem. You can't cut the rate and you need 40%, who knows how much from the budget, with the right of the state to pay off, that's what I have to tell you, regardless of what the IMF is attacking you. Whenever you resist them, you get support from the SRS. The state is guaranteed pension payments and you in the budget have to provide funds, both you and those after you and a lot of other governments to come after you. They have to provide funds until these funds are stabilized. That's where you'll always have support when you pay. So, you can't reduce the rate of contributions, the state needs to pay, the state needs to stimulate the opening of new places, but how come after three years of this savage privatisation? You know, Mr. Dinkic, if you go to this department that deals with organised crime and if you look for documentation or information, just information, you don't have to file, about privatisation, 400 companies in Serbia -- "Diamant", "Vitall", "Soya Protein" and we order further to Cannett, which has this down in Vranje, of course, never bypass cements, brewery, etc. Look at the documentation they've come up with. In this country, the police know everything about what's going on, let me tell you right now, absolutely everything. There are people from the Privatisation Committee. They received information from the Ministry of the Interior about the privatisation of Travellers a month ago. What the MUP wrote in that report, I don't know why you don't arrest them yet. I know they're involved, which is why I'm making them arrest each other. Start with these privatisations, what was real is how, how, how, how whoever cut down, how they destroyed it, etc. And you've done your job. But you don't hit there. How do you think the law passes when the public knows - you have to be close to this, you have to fit into some scheme, you criticized, right, you know what it was like when Chad entered the government. He says Batic -- if you arrest this man of mine, then I'll tell Dulet Lutra to arrest that man of yours, and then he says I'm not going to arrest him, but I'm going to arrest him there, and that guy over there, Zarko Koraq, he says you're not going to arrest him, but he's going to arrest him here. Well, make sure you don't organize yourself here, too. I know, when Vuku is well, he calls Happykovic, when he has a hard time, he calls Trpkovic, and when he wants to forget, then he calls Senic. There's room in Zabela for everything, so you know. There's one more thing to tell you, you haven't made any sense to me this morning by this decision. Does anyone know -- is Vuk Draskovic still foreign minister and Zoran Stankovic defence minister? If we have to wait for the diary to explain, then tell us to start tonight at half past eight to hear it. In the hallway I asked - what does this decision mean? They said -- it doesn't mean anything, they're not anymore. As far as I can tell, they're already pretending to be someone and something. Take care, Vuk Draskovic boasts who his best friends are: Javier Solana, villain and murderer of our children; Olli Ren (oli paprika, oli ren) and third - Carla del Ponte. What are we talking about next? The three most hated figures in Serbia are their best friends. You're resigning people, you can't run the country. You are best friends with the enemies of Serbia and every Serb. Don't do it like that, resign, immediately question the election, save your conscience, don't disrespect the state. Lucky Micko's not here, he'd be happy now.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27493	Thank you very much, Mr. Krassic. Please, first Minister Dinkic has the word, then the MP of the people, Sava Urosevic, and Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27494	From December 2000 to July 2003, I was governor, from March 2004 to June 2006, the finance minister, for the first time since I attended either assembly, I have not heard any criticism of the laws that I have proposed which is serious, except perhaps this one about indexing censors. I have to admit, I'm speechless. On the one hand, I feel pleased that there is no criticism, because it is not good to criticise something that has been done as probably someone else would have done if it were the Minister of Finance, or some other party, it doesn't matter which party we come from. I repeat once again, I answer the question - why not in 2004 the law. For the simple reason that in 2004, we inherited a minute in the state register of 4% of gross domestic product. Today, the 4% measured by today's equivalent would be 80 billion dinars, that was that minus. It wasn't 80 but 45 billion at the time, but in the meantime, it grew gross domestic product, so now it's 80 billion, it's about a bill. If we did that, it would be just a demagogue, we would do, make an even bigger budget deficit, and we couldn't normally finance the state. Second, why not a general tax reduction? For the simple reason that no country that went into rapid economic expansion went to a general reduction in all taxes but rather relyed more on the countries as they developed, so-called. indirect taxes or taxes on consumption, which are VAT, excise duties, and reduced direct taxes. Our strategy is precisely that, to reduce direct taxes as much as possible, so we reduced two years ago the corporate tax, the smallest in Europe, which is why we are now cutting salary taxes. There's no point in cutting consumption taxes, because then it wouldn't be able to finance the state in a stable manner on a long-term basis. Of course it's easy to say -- there's still a tax to be cut. But that would be over 30 billion. These 30 billion aren't small. So, 31 billion, that's the retail total of this year's planned surplus. Otherwise, we will have an additional discharge if we conclude an association and accession agreement with the EU, we will have about six billion reductions based on customs reductions. You know that when this country closes a contract with the EU, we are obliged to phase out customs duties in a transitional period until we enter the EU, which means that if we do so this year, about six billion would reduce customs revenues already since 2007. So it's a total of these 40 billion. That would mean we would have a balanced budget next year, not a budget surplus. However, given the growth of the social product we expect this year, we expect to have a mild budget surplus in the budget for next year as well. Another thing, about selectivity, about tax collection. I don't know why someone before us, and before the tax administration under my jurisdiction, didn't bring fiscal cash into the country, why he didn't go into some companies that were never controlled. I was surprised, here's an example, when our tax police took control of 30 companies owned by Sekula Pijevcevic, I realized that none of those 30 companies were ever controlled. There's no record of any tax controls. Who knows how many of those companies he's got. I literally gave the order that all companies that are large taxpayers have to go through that control and technically that control, given the large number of companies, is being carried out within two years. The two-year deadline expires in September and I will tell you fully responsible that all the companies that exist in Serbia, which are in the centre for large taxpayers, have passed the control of the tax inspection, regardless of who it is. It's a warrant that's being completed and there's a small number of firms left that need to be checked out as planned. As far as the strategy is concerned, I disagree with some skeptics who say this law will not contribute. They may agree that this law will have less effect in isolation if some other measures are not implemented together. However, we plan these other measures with our economic policy, because the main objectives of economic policy are to increase employment and retain the rate of economic growth of 7% on average over the next three years, with the growth of exports that must be double-digit, given the low starting base. We have had export growth in the first four months of this year in euro 23%, we still have a trend in high export growth. If you're asking me to tell you which company works, I can ask you a question, and then where does a budget of 500 billion dinars charge your income. Someone obviously works and pays those taxes. Where exports grow last year 30%, this year 23%, but you're right if you say some companies don't work. The fact is that the transition was necessary in 2000, in order for a system that was created earlier to produce something at any price, whether these products can be sold or not, must be transformed. Those companies that retained their markets continued to work successfully. An example is "Tiger" Pirot or other firms. Some companies that did bad business or had to go bankrupt or would have to go bankrupt, but the essence of the transition is to create conditions for opening new companies in the meantime. Are any new companies open? Certainly not enough, as long as it takes Serbia, but some are. Take a walk, say, Zemun Polj, Zemunom, you don't have to go further, on the New Sad highway, so you'll see one after the other new companies that are open, some domestic and some sides. That's not what we have to have. One problem at a time, however, is solved. If you ask me what the plan is for the future, the plan is quite clear. An MP asked me if I regret what happened to Montenegro. How can we be sorry if something happened to someone else's will? We weren't wondering. We can only regret that we haven't wondered, otherwise we can't regret anything if someone who's been with us has decided to leave. Did we help him? We didn't. Did they prepare themselves for that for five years? They did. Did they make the euro as a currency? Did they introduce customs between Serbia and Montenegro? They did. Did they force us to introduce foreign exchange payments between Montenegro and Serbia as payment traffic? They did. They didn't want to accept payments in dinars, but they said, "Come on, you accept the euro." Why should we accept the euro? It's just that it went all the way, and I'm not saying it's rational, in some broad historical context, it's certainly not rational, because we speak the same language, we're the same faith, as it's not rational that our brothers in Banja Luka are not here. But I'm surprised that no one talks about them, about those who want to be with us, but we're always talking about someone who didn't want to be with us, although not everyone in Montenegro, but most of them, proved themselves in a referendum. What's very important is if we whine and mourn for what happened, we'll waste our time again. In some broad historical context, sooner or later, that limit will be erased again and we will be together. But we need to show that we can be as proud as Serbia and rely on ourselves. What else is there to do? In my opinion and in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the three key economic priorities we need to make. At any cost, we have to do Corridor 10 as soon as possible. So whoever criticises us, from economists, from the opposition, whether it's gonna be borrowing, whether it's gonna be this, we're not going to listen, let's finish it as soon as possible. Of course, it's not possible during this government's term of office. I'm sure the next government will have to accept that as one of the national priorities. In that sense, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia a few days ago in Athens, the Foreign Minister of Athens and the Minister of Finance and Economy of Greece, I made a proposal to ask for this autumn billion dollars of additional write-off from the Paris Club of Trustees, conditionally, with the aim of investing that money in the completion of Corridor 10 in southern Serbia. So the highway ends from Leskovec to the Macedonian border and from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. That road can't end any other way, but we have to. None of the concessionaries will come there, since it's a non-profit road. The only way is for us, instead of paying their debts, to channel that money from the road closure budget and then to join the funds from the Greek Helenik plan, they have 230m euros that they have set up, but they haven't activated them in a few years, since we don't have our participation. This is one of the proposals where there's a consensus at government level. I hope we can make it in the fall, if not from the Paris Club as an institution, and then from the individual creditors of the Paris Club we get the proper parole. Why Corridor 10? Because today, and perhaps Mr Busetic is right to say that in some cities that are in central Serbia and southern Serbia, weaker investors go. Everyone who comes will go to Vojvodina. Why in Vojvodina? There's more expensive labor there. There are higher salaries in Vojvodina than in southern Serbia, but they want to go to Vojvodina because it is the EU's closest market, because there is a good way from the Hungarian border to the EU and then logic is quite clear. We have to build that highway as soon as possible, one part of the concession, one part through this way and end up and that way motivate additional investments. The other thing is energy. Serbia can become a major net exporter of electricity in a few years, if it acts effectively. How? By having to be abraided, improving the capacity of Colubare B, a fully thermal power plant must be built and there is a consensus in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I am taking the opportunity for the first time to expose this to you MPs, the idea is to create a large thermal power plant on the administrative line with Kosovo that would use coal in Kosovo. We ourselves cannot do this and prepare a speedy proper legal mode, think about either a long-term concession, or a management contract, or a joint investment. In any case, we have no intention and we do not think about firing the EPS workers, as someone said, nor about privatising the EPS. We're thinking about establishing co-operation with some of the world's giants, who would build that thermo power plant, hire people in southern Serbia and take advantage of some of the mining wealth from this territory. On the other hand, it's not enough, but it needs to be done with the Colubary, too, and it needs to be done urgently. If we do, then Montenegro will also buy electricity from us, and Macedonia, and Bosnia, Croatia, Slovenia, Greece, Hungary, and all of these are countries that have a deficit in electricity production. It's a strategic second most important project, along with Corridor 10. Plus the pipeline must be built urgently from Dimitrovgrad through central Serbia and to the Bulgarian border, for the same reason. That's the second reason investors go to Belgrade and Vojvodina, because they have gas supplies. They won't go south Serbia because it's more expensive for them to go to other sources of energy, and that's where we have to achieve a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation. So these are the strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and third – employment. Part of the employment incentive package is this package of tax regulations. The second part will be brought in this month, these are financial incentives for greenfield investments, i.e. for new factories, for new jobs, where we will fully respect Ireland, so we will not invent anything ourselves, give direct financial payments to those investors who decide to hire new workers through raising new capacities. We still haven't determined how much money we can pay for a new job. The Irish paid 30,000 euros in time, then cut to 20,000. That's a lot, we don't have that much, but we're sure to allocate significant resources to finance the newly-opened workplace and we're going to open a competition that those local self-governments that have participation have the advantage of funding, because that way we can attract those who have money to invest in our country. In addition to these taxes, with the promotion of youth employment, with the already existing 10 years of tax exemption for all who employ more than 100 people and invest more than seven million euros, these are incentives that we should take advantage of. So, surely the economic situation in Serbia is not what we would all like, but we are slowly entering the stage that through the surplus that we had, through the national investment plan and through the wise policy, because we are a small country, don't kid ourselves, Serbia is a small country, Serbia has smart people, these smart people are in all parties, but also among those who are not party members, and now it's time not to think about Montenegro, but to think about what Bushetic said, about Jagodina, about Vranja, about our places, and to make a move. If we work constructively, we can do it. As for the 1.9% question, I can only say, Mr. Krasic, that our party won six terms in Kovin yesterday, just as much as you did. So, SRS six mandates, G17 plus six mandates, 9% in Medvedja, 10.2% in Kovin. It is clear that you have greater credibility in the public moment, I admit that the SRS is at this point the party with the biggest rating in Serbia, but do not underestimate the G17 plus, given that citizens recognise that what we have been saying slowly for two years, but it is certainly beginning to be realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27495	Of course, according to article 111 of the break until 18.05 hours, then the replica of Mr Krasic, because it was a direct mention, and then the MP of the people, Sava Urosevic, and Zoran Antic. [[After break – 18.10.]] Let's just wait for the colleagues to take part in the debate, and we'll continue. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue with a united discussion of the first two points of the agenda in principle. First, the replica, the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, and then the Messengers of the people, Sava Urosevic, and Zoran Antić. Here you go, Mr. Krassic. Thank you for your patience. I'm sorry, Mr. Zoran Krasic, so Mr. Toma Busetic, I'm sorry, I didn't immediately see you sign up, and then the registered speakers on the list of speakers will be here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27497	I signed up for the replica, not for the percentages and the personal mention of my name, but for some things from the beginning of Mr Dinkic's discussion. Mr. Dinkich, you haven't understood me at all. You said there were no more serious objections. There are serious objections. We have 40 amendments regarding these two laws. I told you at the beginning that we would discuss it in detail. You said that no country has undertaken a reform of the tax system, by generally reducing the rate at which the income tax is charged, but has joined selectively. I don't know why that would be a prime excuse or a reason for this concept of yours. Why would you interpret it based on some other country's experience? It's completely incomparable, not just because we have this virtual surplus, you can't compare us to the Czech Republic, Hungary and other countries, because the starting position is different. The other thing, what I wanted to draw your attention to, you really didn't understand my discussion. If you're talking about investors in general, as a future driving situation that should allow for a greater number of new jobs, then I have to tell you that one of the most significant items is one stable and unchangeable tax policy. That's why at the beginning I listed the years when these regulations were passed and how they were changed. If that's a rule, and you know it is a rule yourself, then probably if you want to make a total effect of 31 billion dinars, you're formally-legally losing it, and you're essentially getting it the other way, and you should say that, you're getting through the cuts in social issues of the state, through an increase in employment, etc., then maybe from 14 you should get off to 10%, maybe from 12 to 9%. In that sense, I also said that we know in advance that it will probably be worth five or six years, and that's what can be beneficial for all kinds of investments. You misunderstood me. You said that radicals don't make a big fuss about being released for two and three years, everyone backs me up. We do not support you, but we are asking you to give one stable tax policy, that that investor knows, these are tax policy rules on 1 July or 1 September 2006, and we know that this tax policy is going to be three or four years and it will not change, there will be no need to change. You're talking surplus here, and when you say surplus, then you need to reduce isolation, and then you go selectively, and I'm just giving you an example of how an ordinary man who's on the verge of rentability thinks. Secondly, why would he get into this, if in two or three years he gets into something called suspense, it's about like a licking thing, a lot of advertising, and then at one point, after a year and a half, everyone says, wait for people, I don't pay 100% but 145% of what I bought. It's not worth it to me, give up information to every investor, every unemployed person, anyone who wants to open a job and give something that will be relatively valid for a long time. This seems beneficial for all parties involved in the market. This is how you have one selective approach, so in two months, let's change, we've seen that we've made a mistake. This is what brings instability and allows for the abuse of selectivity.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27498	Here you go, Mr. Bushetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27499	I was just mentioned by Minister Dinkic, and I want to tell you, when it comes to Vojvodina, it is not good that we have unbalanced development in Serbia, it is not good that Vojvodina develops much faster than the rest of Serbia. The international factor has not given up on Serbia's further collapse. We've been thinking about how they can separate Vojvodina, given that there is 85% of the Serb population in Vojvodina, but it's a simple model. The model is for Vojvodina to be more developed, to enter various regional organisations and for Serbs themselves in Vojvodina to say, in Novi Sad, in other cities, that we would share the fate of Kursumlia, Prokuplje and I do not know which other cities in Serbia. We want a better life, we have better conditions for a better life, and in one such procedure, there is a secession of the Vojvodina. When it comes to regions, Tito has set us up to have two provinces, two regions, and in Croatia there are no regions, no provinces, and Croatia could be divided into five provinces, but the regions are an important possibility or a good opportunity to reach a further fragmentation of the country. We are convinced that they have not given up, at least one part of the international factor, and you as a government should do everything in Serbia to be a balanced development. And when it comes to Republika Srpska, we in the SPS and how we think about Republika Srpska. After all, Republika Srpska is the formation of a Serb people in Bosnia, the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic. Slobodan Milosevic united Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic made a huge contribution to the creation of Republika Srpska. But what's the problem? The problem is that those from the international community you all swear to, starting with Solana, Erhard Busek, Doris Pak, all say, there is no separation of Republika Srpska, the Dayton Agreement must be respected, and it is not respected because it is seen to abolish Republika Srpska, while saying that the best solution to Kosovo is to be independent. So the international factor is deeply unfair and nothing literally changed in the 1990s. They insist on an independent and independent state of Kosovo and Metohija, and on the other hand they will do their utmost to abolish Republika Srpska. There's nothing changed about the international factor. Erhard Busek, he is the head of the Stability Pact, a man who was deputy Aloyz Mok at the time of the break-up of Yugoslavia. You know Gensher and Aloyz Mok were architects of the destruction of Yugoslavia. There's a simple project these democratic forces can't understand. Why do they want to do this to us, why do they want to break Serbia to the end? First of all, they want the Austrians, we can talk about whatever we want, get back what we want for World War I. There are Germans, there is the Vatican, who wants to catalyze us and there are Americans, who see little Russians in us, Orthodox Slovenian people - Serbia should be placed from Belgrade to Vranj, a small state, as much as Croatia, with the puppet regime and with easy management. Someone says don't talk conspiracy theory. Maybe the conspiracy isn't, and the project is. It's all happening that way. This wasn't much of a replica, but these are facts. So, we've done everything for the Republic of Serbia, we think of it, they have the right to secede much more than Kosovo and Metohija have. Because if it hadn't been for the province of Kosovo and Metohija, they wouldn't have been able to make a referendum and declare an independent state, but Tito did it, and Vojvodina, and Kosovo. Of course, there are no provinces in Croatia, and there were conditions for five provinces. So the international factor is unfair and he continues to do everything he did in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27500	Thank you, Mr. Bushetti. Here is the word of the Messenger of the people, Sava Urosevic, and the messenger of the people, Zoran Antić, and the messenger of the people Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27501	Dear President, honourable ministers and representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have before us the amendments and additions of two laws, which are within the group of laws which the party G17 plus, as a significant factor of the current Government of the Republic, fulfils its pre-election promises in the part of redundancies of the economy and in the work of speeding up employment, especially those most endangered in transition. What's this about? It's about reducing the income tax from 14% to 12% and introducing an untaxable censorship of 5,000 dinars, which, we've had the opportunity to hear, and I just want to remind you, because these are unsuspecting numbers, it's not a single political aspect, socialist, or capitalist, that for the average salary of 25,400, if I'm not wrong, in gross amounts, they cut total taxes and taxes and contributes from 73.1 to a level of 62.7. That means more than 10 index points, or that's more than one week, and that would be about 14%, which is no less for any employer. From the pay phone we had the opportunity to hear about what a small company with 10 employees will do with these reliefs, or tax cuts, so someone should have such a small company with 10 employees, and then they will realize how much it is a positive relief and how much it contributes to disbursement and investment opportunities for other purposes. What I would certainly like to say, from this booth is also mentioned regional even developments and changes and additions to this law, we see something that is an attempt to support even regional development, which is the introduction of a censorship of 5,000 dinars, which is untaxable. The salary price in Belgrade and Vojvodina is not much of a relief, but it is therefore a significant relief in undeveloped areas and can be almost fully tax-relieving, and that is, if it is taken into account that 12% is gross and about 18-19% net at the same time, then we will calculate that this is an entire twenty index points reduction of payload, and that is absolutely not small. We could also hear from this pay phone that the burdens of the economy will be reduced by 31.5 billion. That's right. The budget will be denied by 31.5 billion. For this, the conditions were created by introducing fiscal cash registers, at a time when there was still sales tax, and the VAT of 1.01.2005, the government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, enabled much more generous budgeting, and thus the possibility of discharging the economy. This won't be a complete redundancy of the economy, in fact, it will be a redundancy of the economy, but it won't be a shortfall in the budget, because, in parallel with this measure, the rate of change in the taxation of that annual income tax of citizens is being introduced, because the censorship decreases from four average annual earnings to three average annual earnings and thus increases the number of potential Serbian citizens who will be taxed, and two tax rates are also being introduced: the rate of 10% is for profits from three to six annual earnings, and over six annual earnings is being introduced at 15%. This also increases revenue in the budget based on annual personal income taxation. In part, the deficit in the budget has been reduced, i.e. the budget inflow has been reduced by 31 billion. So we have a redundancy of the economy and at the same time a burden on the population categories that have higher incomes, which is also a logical process. What is also significant is the fixation of 3,000 dinars, which is an untaxable censorship of investments in voluntary pension funds. In my opinion, so far there have been discrepancies between the three laws: the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, the Law on Labour and the Law on Contributions, so there is something that I have interpreted as inconsistencies, and so far there have been 2.580 dinars untaxable. It is good and I believe that of all the laws that have been passed in the Assembly, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds is the most transitory law, i.e. it affects the transition of consciousness and allows our citizens not to wait more than a state pension fund, but to, while they are able and working, start with something that is in the developed world a completely dominant way of preparing for retirement, and these are deposits in voluntary pension funds. There, unlike the state pension fund, all the funds lead to a special party, and they are only tied to that citizen, unlike the state fund situation, where all the funds that are allocated from receiving one citizen go into one large mass and one moment will be determined how much the citizen will get when he retires, which is not good, unlike voluntary pension funds, where at any time someone who is a member of a voluntary pension fund can know how much his pension will be based on annual growth. Also, voluntary pension funds encourage the trading of securities of value, because it is an institutionalised way of joining citizens to trade in securities of value, because each of the citizens, who could single out two or three thousand dinars, is unserious for the securities market of value, but when more citizens join in the fund and engage someone who still understands the trading of securities than the values, then there is success and there is growth that is greater than inflation in the funds of voluntary pension. In any case, the G17 Plus MP group will support these two laws because, I say, they represent the fulfillment of the pre-election promises that the G17 Plus party made in the pre-election campaign for the republican elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27502	Thank you, Mr. Urosevic. The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, then the Messenger Slavoljub Matic, and the Messenger of the People, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these two laws we are considering are obviously in the function of the pre-election campaign G17 plus the government, as well as Mr Dinkic's arguments, obviously the election campaign has begun. They will not significantly improve the position of Serbian citizens, and the government has been full of two years to take much more seriously all those unemployed coming out of companies that are privatising across Serbia. As far as the tax system is concerned, it is obvious that these constant changes in the tax system are causing great dissatisfaction and anxiety of all taxpayers and that tax cuts are nice at first sight and sticky for ears and, as I said, it is convenient to use it in some pre-election propaganda, but when it comes to income tax, it is obvious that these effects will not be great, that the effects will be extremely modest. I have no precise data, but the fact is that everywhere in the world income tax usually means one-sixth, possibly one-seventh of all fiscal revenues of the budget, and from the very fact that the effects will not be significant, but as is the case in the world of tax cuts, when it comes to citizens, gratefully, and allows to collect some more political points in the pre-election campaign that is ahead of us. I would say that the most important thing that the government wants to achieve with this law is that it is shown to be concerned about the large number of unemployed coming out of the transition process, but that every citizen in Serbia today and that he knows well that the problem of unemployment will not be solved in this way, but only by the development of Serbia's economy. That's what this government hasn't thought about in the past two years. We have an extremely low level of investment in Serbia's economy, we have a very poorly implemented privatisation process that has left a large number of jobless workers, we have one concern when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises and very little has been done in this area. The whole 2002 concept, when it comes to employment, fell into the water, was nothing. The fact is that both the ministry and the government themselves took first of all care of fiscal policy and completely neglected the economy and the question is whether we have the Ministry of Economy today as well as the goal of improving the situation in the Serbian economy. The money we're talking about here, which will be saved, could have been much better used, first of all, in the privatisation process itself. The request of the SRS was constantly to use this privatisation income primarily for new jobs and thus we could through the opening of new jobs to take care of thousands of citizens, not through this legal project that short-term citizens have tried to cloud their eyes for all the failures that the government has had so far. I think about the concrete amendments the SRS will talk about, and as you know, there are about 40 of them, we'll be able to talk about all tax rates, possibly adjustments to inflation. I think it was in the very proposal for a text that there were a lot of gaps, that it had to be done in a much better way. I'd take the opportunity to say a few words when it comes to profit tax. The fact is that tax cuts are extremely good at first sight and will mean a lot of Serbia's economy, but we also have one selective approach when it comes to income tax. We still have municipalities today in which that part of the money that was supposed to lie at the expense of municipal local self-government from profit taxes, thanks to government engagement, did not lie on those accounts, that the realisation of the budget was below 50%, this time I mean the Despotovac municipality, and there was an obvious selective approach by the Ministry itself because the Tax Administration gave itself the right to free certain economic operators from the obligation to pay tax on earnings, which has caused great damage to municipalities throughout Serbia. I think the Despotovac municipality is, in that sense, one of the municipalities that has had the greatest damage, because the Despotovac municipality does not have a nearly complete economy, and the Rembas mine for underground exploitation has not been paying that part of the income tax belonging to local self-government for about 30 months. We have come into a situation, as I said, that only 50% of the total budget is realised. A good part of the law is actually a alignment with the Investment Funds Act, with the Labour Act and the Voluntary Insurance Act, and it seems to me that the accent was primarily on the recruitment of trainees and those under 30 years old. It is in any case a wish and an SRS, but this selective approach is a bit of an eye to all Serbian citizens. I think that it had to go to a happier solution and that this legal solution, that is, this 30-year limit, should have been significantly higher or completely abolished, if the proponent claims that this will not significantly affect the amount of funds that will be missing from the social security fund itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27504	Thank you, Mr Antic. National MP Slavoljub Matic is not here. The Messenger of the People of Rade has a word, and the Messenger of Istvan Takac, a people's messenger, Miljko Četrović. Just to give the information, I'm sorry, Mrs. Radet. So, Mrs. Radeta is the sixth speaker, so after that another five speakers, if the number of speakers data means anything to you, but the time for discussion, untapped by the parliamentary groups that will participate, is 63.92 minutes if used until the end. I'm sorry, thank you very much for your understanding, Mrs. Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27505	He gave us very important information because of the impatience of those who accepted this agenda and who thought it would end this much faster, but now what do I do to you, you asked -- look. We'll use our 60 and a few minutes anyway. I don't know how Minister Dinkic's idea that here, when he spoke to the MPs, the MPs have no objections to these two draft laws that we are talking about today, means the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. We from the SRS and how we have objections, both to these bill proposals and, of course, to the general policy of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is certainly in such a close relationship. We will discuss concrete remarks when it comes to the proposal for these laws in particular, that is to say, when we discuss the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I don't know if we should apologize to some MPs, because last night I heard a colleague on a television show who boasted that this assembly is working very quickly and that laws are being passed quickly, but the only problem is that the SRS MPs won't agree before these meetings with ministers, and then maybe that means they shouldn't submit amendments, and then the Assembly would work much faster and much more efficiently. I still expected my colleague to say the opposition in parliament should be abolished. However, we have submitted a large number of amendments and we will talk about these amendments, and we will explain to the Minister what we think we should explain to him, of course to colleagues who are then in the O.R., if they are, since they are mostly missing today. I am not going to say anything special about either of these two draft laws, but I will say, that is, I will refer to what the minister said in his opening statement, because there have indeed been several interesting remarks by Minister Dinkic, which should certainly be commented. He said at the beginning of Dinkic that it was an honor to talk about these tax cuts laws and then I remembered, I suppose they remember Serbian citizens, it was an election campaign, when Dinkic started fighting publicly with these from Tadic's yellow thief's company, and then he had a duel with his, until then, a friend, Djelic, and then publicly in front of Serbian citizens, and then they publicly broke up and then they talked about what Minister Dinkic is proposing to us today and then Dinkic Maltene swore to the Serbian public that this would be the first of his jobs when he was minister in the government. And so, Kostunica wanted that miracle to happen, to make Dinkic a minister in the government, but it took him two and a half years to come up with these proposals, which now mean nothing. I remember there was a big fight, like women over the board, and they were fighting like that -- they won't even come to his funeral, he said. And when Djelic insulted Mirosinka, then Dinkic said don't touch my mom. It was in that duel, that's right, Mircic. Furthermore, says Minister Dinkic here that he attributed it to himself, made a surplus in favour of taxpayers and budget users. If that is true, why are all budget users, that is, most users of the budget dissatisfied with Dinkic's policy? Why are they threatening strike enlighteners, health workers and court employees? I don't know what the problem is. Do they not listen to what Dinkic tells them, but believe their eyes and ears, it's just amazing. And only pensioners, this is a special question for Minister Dinkic. If there's such a surplus in the budget that we talked about when we talked about the budget here, why do pensioners complain, why do these people have nothing to live on and why this government and Minister Dinkic, who usually cheers and dresses in this government, doesn't take care of pensioners, educational workers, health workers, what with those who write in the papers every day that people, thanks to the laws and laws of Tomica Milosavljevic, can't fix their sick teeth anymore, suffer pain, can't take out because they don't have the money to go to the dentist, because coming to the dentist and the conversation is paid, and only intervention, it's a special story. We also said that when these laws were on the agenda, but all this has to happen again, primarily for the sake of the public of Serbia, because what Dinkic said here, if the citizens believed him, they would be convinced that they would live better tomorrow. Unfortunately, that's not true, what Dinkic said sounded nice, but it's inadmissible and it won't and can't get any better. According to Dinkic, all the extra income can be invested. Now I ask him, although he's not here, what is he, or the Serbian government, in what they invested that surplus, why if they have that surplus, and he says that surplus can be invested, why they keep it, for whom they don't invest, why not inform the public about these investments. And investment is mostly not something that can be hidden, it's not a matchbox, so we don't know what it's invested in. I expect the minister to answer these questions that he only raised in his opening statement. He also told us that the government had come up with a national investment plan. We come here every time one of the ministers comes, we surprise ourselves with strategies, plans, something that the government is messing with, and the public of Serbia has no idea what it is. The other day, the minister of trade tells us about some tourism development strategy, Dinkic tells us today about the national investment plan. However, Minister Stojkovic offered to adopt us here and the assembly majority adopted a strategy for judicial reform, and today all MPs have received this very expensive brochure, very high-quality, referring to the national strategy for judicial reform, says - changes that will speed up Serbia's EU accession. I see, the editor responsible for this magazine is Gjorge Cvetican. Do you know who that is? As a senior JUL official, he was the secretary of justice until 2000, otherwise close friend Zoran Balinovac. Zoran Balinovac was the deputy minister of justice as a JUL-ovski cadre, and today he is the chief adviser for legal matters at Kostunica, as well as the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat. Imagine this lie by Minister Dinkic. He says -- he's going to have to propose budget rebalances because they didn't expect such large privatisation revenues. I don't know how it's possible that in six months, the minister couldn't plan what was going to happen this year, but then he started fighting Karic, but then he knew that now he's going to run, that he's breaking 063 networks, whether he's a thief or a thief, Karic, it's the same for the citizens. But I wish Dinkic was here to ask him, when we're talking about privatisation revenues, to remind him of the promises of their coalition partners, and his, that there will be a privatisation review, so that someone will be responsible for some criminal privatisations, so that, after someone answers, workers who have lost their jobs through criminal privatisations or without those prescribed severances will all be compensated. Of course, none of that is true and none of that is true. I would remind the minister that he was in the election campaign and his party now, who talked about Janjusevic and Kolesar, and now I ask him - why we do not have a concrete solution to the problem of Cementa Popovac, there is Janjusevic involved, there is a criminal procedure, several times from this place I said that Popovac visits Mrs Djindjic once a month. Why is he visiting? I guess she's coming for her share. That's what's left of her husband. So, a lot of things are just stuck, it's started, nothing's brought to the end, and the citizens of Serbia are all clear and, believe me, the citizens of Serbia are sick of these anti-corruption calls, where you're hammering something when someone is fighting directly with one of the ministers. Most often with Dinkic, since he is the acting minister of justice in Stojkovic's absence, so he threatens the court's resolutions, so he warns who should be arrested in courts, he says he does not respect the Supreme Court's decisions, etc. When the minister mentioned here, I don't know how these laws will make a significant contribution to the employment of young people, to the employment of disabled people, to the employment of older people over 45 years, it really sounds nice, and no one in their right mind would say that it has anything to do with creating conditions for employment and youth, and disabled people and those who have lost their jobs and are over 45 years old. No one else can believe this story. Where Minister Dinkic intends to hire these people, in which economy, in which companies. First, everything that could have been destroyed from 2000 to today has been destroyed through all these criminal privatisations. People have lost their jobs and through those that may not have been so obviously criminal, but now the consequences of these are, let's say legitimate privatisations, in action. Because these are the smart investors, mostly members of this thieving yellow company of Tadic, who bought such companies with the best locations, which may not have been as significant as companies, such as the Hair Association in Belgrade. They had at the best sites of the facility, the new owner and such as you want in Serbia, they made a deal that in two years or three years they would not fire workers. They haven't done anything in three years. They didn't invest any money. They didn't really fire anyone, but it's past the time they were bound by a contract. After that time, he says, "I'm sorry, I'm in the catering business, and I'm not interested in hairdressers, hairdressers and hairdressers, out here, doing something else here. You've got hundreds of thousands of them. Who will hire them all, for free Dinkic promises through these laws, there is no way, unfortunately. Believe that we in the SRS would be happy and happy if it were possible for Dinkic to do what he promised today. We know it's nothing to do. Em's economy doesn't work, there's no place to hire new people, and besides those who fire workers through privatisation, we also have Dinkic's threat to all state authorities, to all local self-government, to fire workers or no salaries. No increase, there is no, no one who doesn't fire I don't know what, 10 or 15% Dinkic plotted, and who doesn't fire so much, he can't get any of the money from what's here in this assembly voted to win, because Dinkic won't give it. He only made a deal with Bogdanovic. No one touches at City Hall. They continue to bring whoever they want, they continue to raise salaries for whoever they want, and Dinkic is apologising them all, i.e. Vojislav Kostunica. He seems to be the Prime Minister, a formal bar. It's a coalition, of course. Furthermore, Dinkic says, these laws will separate the health and pension funds for farmers so that farmers can verify health books. This is the biggest scam Dinkic could have, or anyone could have said, which applies to farmers. This is impudence. First you did it with taxi drivers, Dinkic did it, separated their health and pension, and then these people now have an average of some 4,000 dinars, I think, in the name of those payments. There he restricted them so that none of the taxi drivers could borrow any vehicle or any credit to take, and they must have driven the cab drivers' assets. A team before Velja Ilic promised them that they would be able to import it under favourable conditions, of course, and it was a fraud and a lie. Now let me go back to this retirement and health care thing for the farmers. Now let's fool another farmer, we'll split their pension and health payments, because what poor people are going to have to verify the health book, I just don't know what they're doing with a certified health book, like all of us, because everything is paid with both certified and untrusted or without a health book, it's exactly the same conditions in Serbia today. Since there is neither free treatment nor free education in Serbia today, all of it has eaten democracy. Then he says, "retirement for farmers when they don't want to pay and don't have to," the state is better because they don't pay pensions and they can't expect a pension like this, even if they're so poor and miserable as their pension today. He didn't remember Dinkic saying, let's keep this as far behind in paying farmers and not paying those few years retired, let's pass the law, as we have for employees, so that the state refunds it to come to some zero and then from the day of entry into force of this new law start with these payments. Dinkic didn't think of that. What does he care about farmers? What is further said Dinkic, says when it comes to artists, the two laws also provide for, contributions to compulsory insurance will be paid for artists if local self-government or other authorities determine that they are artists of particular interest. This is truly amazing that this is how you can predict it instead of knowing it, so artists have been fighting for years to come really into one status that they deserve. I'm talking about real artists. Then these laws allow Dinkic to determine who is an artist, and who is not, or Dinkic himself can say that the Ministry of Finance will pay pension for Keba because he is an artist by Dinkic's criteria. Therefore, let's say, harmonica master Branimir Djokic will not have a chance to pay him these contributions, because he is neither Mladjan Dinkic nor Gorica Mojovic nor similar to them. Says Minister Dinkic, who are the priorities of the Serbian government, Corridor 10, energy, employment, all empty stories. Here, a co-worker from Dinkic's party otherwise said there are more than 31,000 unemployed young people in Serbia. That's unfortunately true. It is true that there are over a million unemployed in Serbia, mostly jobless as a result of the introduction of a five-octobar revolution bulldozer democracy. I am now asking the Minister in absentia how this law can be guaranteed that these 31,000 young or million people, regardless of the age structure of the unemployed in Serbia, will be employed under this law, where, when indeed, these laws do not foresee and the minister deceives the public of Serbia. The minister has often been in the habit of praising something very much this Indji municipality president, this Jesic, so something is taking pictures with him in the paper, declaring him the most successful president of the municipality, etc. He then spoke here today about the need for greenfield investment to be invested in Serbia and thus to hire new people. That is true, and those greenfield investments exist in the Zemun municipality, for example. Exactly what Dinkic said when passing the Batajni route from Zemun to Batajnica to both left and right, it was the result of the formation of an industrial zone from the time the radicals were the first authority in the municipality of Zemun, when all the trees and stones were thrown at us as we sold out agricultural land for the formation of an industrial zone, etc. You see, today the minister here admitted that it was something good. And then, on the other hand, 10-15 days ago, Maja Gojkovic signed a contract for a large greenfield investment of 600m euros and after two days of writing the newspaper, the ministers objected that it was Maja Gojkovic as mayor, and with her was also Tomislav Nikolic, SRS deputy president and also Russian ambassador, and also the message that Putin was behind it, that they were able to do all this, and they did not ask Velja and Dinkic. Today, Dinkic says we should advocate these greenfield investments. It wouldn't be anything if we asked them. Investors from Germany with these greenfield investments went from India to Sremska Mitrovica because Dinkic's Goran Jesic, the most successful president of the municipality, asked 30% of the commission to come to Indji. Bogdanovic wants more. The man went to Sremska Mitrovica, apparently they haven't reached that level yet. This same Jesic crashes amidst Indjija facilities that are protected by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments to give the building of Mercator because it agreed on a commission. By the way, the successful young president of the municipality, which has 50,000 inhabitants, has 10,000 unemployed, so much for Dinkic's staff. Just for a little while, since we got another nice and expensive book today, the brochure, I just don't know who's funding all this. This is from Customs Administration, because it has something to do with Dinkic, because Dragan Jerinić is from his party, which says, among other things: 'Efficient functioning of a single platform of the functioning of all competent state authorities and relevant social organisations (customs administrations, Taxes, MUP, inspection bodies, Chamber of Commerce - what is she going to do here, I don't know), what we are institutionally standing for and we are fighting for, because this is the only effective way to create a healthy social and economic environment and bring crime to a socially acceptable level. 'I don't know there's such a crime, but it looks like it's a newspaper. What is this Jerinic from Customs Administration informing us about? That he fired 623 employees in Customs, and I know and we all know how many people were employed in Customs in the meantime, who agreed to join this newly formed Dinkic G17, and before that they were hired by these yellow ones, those from Nis, while Zivkovic's godfather was in customs, Krstic of course. You see, now interesting, among other things, the seized heroin shown in grams went from 24.080 grams, that was when it was that regime; no, no, Chadin grew to 67,000 grams, so this one went to 32,000 grams, and here it now fell to 144,000 grams in 2005; less blow, obviously. How do we fight, he recommends we fight crime. He says stop corruption. All the MPs in these books got another card like this, where they say, "Call a number there, anonymously and free of charge for cell phone calls, you know something we don't know, applies to customs, customs employees." So, another incredible call to the citizens, this is going on TV, and in the newspapers, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27506	The People's Messenger Istvan Takac has the word, and the Messenger of the people Miljko Četrović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27507	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. President, today we have two laws on the agenda, amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Contributions to Obliged Social Insurance in the Republic of Serbia. The G17 Group of MPs plus both legal texts will fully support and propose that others do so. I believe that any solution aimed at reducing the general burden in society is a positive step forward. In these proposals, we have the following essential solution: reducing the general rate of taxation of employees' salaries from 14 to 12, exempting from taxing the base of salary by 5,000 dinars, exempting tax on permanently employed disabled persons and releasing part of the contribution to employment of persons older than 45 and 50 years, respectively. The reliefs provided for by this legal text in private, the increase of the base from two million to three million dinars, envisioning this bill. Another relief is the exemption from the tax base of a part of the income obtained by the sale of capital, 200 euros per year in dinar equivalent. It's been spinning for about ten years, what to do with this tax, whether to tax or not. In the coming period, relief will have a stimulating effect on employers to report and pay their salaries regularly and to contribute and increase employment on a regular basis. I would like to draw your attention to the following statistical indicators, which are published on the web presentation of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the number of employees, i.e. persons seeking employment, in 2001. The indicative value, inherited from the previous period, which is 770,000 citizens who sought employment at the time, means 2001. The employment relationship, according to these indicators, was 2,780,000 citizens. The current government, when taking over power in 2004, has the following relationship: unemployed persons seeking 950,000 employment, and employees have 2,700,000 on the record. This proves that based on these records, we have about 50,000 more citizens without a job, just before Mrs. Radeta said a million unemployed persons, which means that the transition in this period is not over in two years, unfortunately. I'd like to list some of the measures that have been taken in the past. By the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, three years ago the Republic budget also provides for the realisation of incentives for the development of agricultural holdings with favourable credit lines or the incentive of funds for certain products. Secondly, the state's guarantee fund has been opened to make better use of these credit lines, as well as other measures to which the government directs economic and social movements. Furthermore, as is known, the transition of social capital has not yet been completed. Today, we have small social enterprises in the territory of the Republic, which are without capital and particular perspectives in terms of reviving their production and providing income for employees in these companies. These same companies are listed in the number mentioned earlier. I think the investment climate has improved in this period and is slowly developing. As a positive example, I would like to highlight successful privatisation, i.e. recapitalisation with a strategic partner from Japan at the AD of the tobacco industry in Senta. As the new owner for the next two years, the development of his entire business network in Serbia envisions 100m euros in investment, which is encouraging. I believe that this kind of progress should be made in the textile branch, which since last year has been favoured export treatment on the market, and special progress should be made by a metal branch of engagement, especially because because of some previous period of business, they were among the first ten exporters, with hundreds of thousands of employees, and in my opinion this suggests a very favourable structure of experts and their experience. As regards reasons under this law, the legislator believes that there will be no negative impact on the budget in the coming period, as the employment of new workers provides for a reduction in the grey economy, a reduction in illegal labour, increased employment and legal payouts, to which contributions for compulsory social security will be paid. Furthermore, it should be possible to improve the overall balance in the employment sector, employee standards, budget incomes for subsisting general obligations of society towards budgetary users, especially education, culture, health care, as well as police, military and other budget users. Especially is the alarming relationship between employees and pensioners. In 30 years, the relationship between pensioners and employees has deteriorated. According to statistics published by the Republic Statistics Institute of Serbia, in 1970 the relationship between pensioners and employees was 0.27 coefficient. In 1991, the relationship increased to 0.43 and in early 2004, the relationship was already 0.67. Therefore, any improvement measures, i.e. an increase in the number of employees, and the obligation of all at any level of decision that may affect the improvement of this relationship. I believe that these measures from the proposed laws for amending and supplementing the laws on citizens' income and compulsory social security will contribute to improving them. I suggest that this law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27508	The People's MP Miljko Četrović has the word, and then the MP Ivana Kovacevic, Mr Momchilov, is not there, will not come, and then after the word, Mr Milorad Mircic will have.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27509	Dear People's MPs, on the agenda, we have two amendments to the laws proposed by the Government of Serbia, and before the government here is Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, explaining both the oral and written what the government has given when proposing these amendments and supplementing the law. Apparently, the main objective of amending these two laws is to address the problem of unemployment in Serbia through these changes, or at best reduce the number of unemployed and the large number of unemployed to get to work, and secondly, what the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to do, so-called. The grey economy is being reduced in Serbia and a far greater number of employees working against positive legal regulations are entering legal flows. Here MPs of the SRS have made it clear that none of the other objectives will be achieved by amending these two laws, especially by amending the Law on Income Tax, and that these provisions and reliefs, and reducing taxes on young people up to 30 years of age, will not reduce the number of young people who have been unemployed for years, and we have heard that there are more than 300 thousand to 30 years. What about those who are over 30 years old and not their own guilt have nothing to do and won't have it for much longer? About a person with disabilities, it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia since the takeover of power in Serbia, more than two years ago, has had no view of the state of the disabled and that they are given the opportunity to get to work. These provisions will not lead to the employment of more people with disabilities and will not help people with disabilities to get to work and achieve a minimum existence for themselves and for their families. What to say about this third category of unemployed Serbian citizens of 45 years, or 50 years old, which are the majority or absolute majority, not by their own fault, are on the record of the unemployed, and according to the rule of this robbery privatisation that started in 2001 and is still going on, and as we hear here, the transition of social property and social capital must be accelerated according to the law that was passed and which this government is seeking to literally respect it by 2007 to end the robbery of total property in Serbia. About farmers and the alleged release of farmers from paying taxes on catastrian income for 2006 and 2007, it is a shame to mention this is some help to farmers in Serbia. Farmers, as well as workers of the Serbian state, are so humiliated by the government and the previous government that it is a shame to mention that they are now being helped by the release of taxes on cadastrian income. Basically, they don't already have any income in agriculture, no matter what business they do in agriculture, whether it's vegetables, fruit growing, and not talking about livestock. If only the facts here were available or talked about, if this is the situation in all areas of agriculture, and we had one example on the Privatisation Committee, through this robbery of the dairy in Serbia, that the price of this so-called. raw milk 10.5, 11 or 12 dinars and is required from farmers, i.e. farmers of milk producers to register their households, to allegedly receive a milk premium of three dinars. Who does that? It is done by the Minister of Agriculture, who is to be Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by the finance minister, who is not here now, because allegedly through the Republic of Serbia's budget, the funds for the premiums are defined. Imagine the shame and shame on those 10 or 11 dinars to be paid to peasants for so-called. Raw milk, the payment of VAT is calculated. Now that the minister is here, I'm going to ask a question a little bit more, when will it come to time or day or what he promised the moment he took over the finance ministry, that citizens in Serbia will be taxed by economic power? In this country, Serbia is essentially taxed and paid and executed neatly both according to the state and local self-government, a huge number of poor citizens in Serbia. On the contrary, we have one minority of criminals, mobsters, newly-roasted businessmen who don't even commit to local self-government or the state. On the contrary, in view of local authorities, in conjunction with the government of the Republic of Serbia, state authorities do not pay obligations to the state and also rob local self-government and the state of Serbia. An hour ago in a replica, the minister said that so-called major businessmen and large businesses are now under strict control by the tax police, probably other inspection services, and that all of them will be controlled by September. Did the Ministry of Finance, the tax police, know until the arrest of the president of the Trade Court in Belgrade, Kljajevic, Sekula Pivcevic, who is directly or closely tied to the bankruptcy mafia or the economic mafia clan, that the Sekula Pivcevic has 30 companies? Should the finance minister, director of the Tax Administration, head of the tax police and tax police know or have been obliged to know, monitor and control all economic operators in Serbia, including these 30 companies, Sekula Pivcevic? How can we accept, as serious and responsible people, aware of the real situation in the state of Serbia, that these alleged changes of law will lead to improvements in the employment of young people, people with disabilities and people who have lost their jobs, 45 and 50 years of age, without talking about farmers. This all looks like a pre-election campaign by Minister Dinkic and his G17 Plus party. No wonder the amendment of the law includes these three categories, as it should be deceived young people, should be deceived for 45 and 50 years, which are on the record of unemployed, and farmers, or peasants, that freeing taxes on cadastrian income will make them far better in the coming period, and this will be their signal that they should vote for G17 plus, for Minister Dinkic and the rest of the G17 plus. We have heard here many times, as the minister comes to talk about a strategy that is nowhere or they do so within the framework of the ministries that behave and rule their ministries as feeds, that they have a strategy. Vela Ilic has a strategy in capital investments, the agriculture minister, who will be the Deputy Prime Minister for Agriculture. The Ministry of Economy is here and said, and I must confirm that the state of Serbia and this government do not have an economy ministry. They only have the Ministry of Privatisation, or for the robbery of huge assets, created for decades by workers and citizens of Serbia. It is the Ministry of Privatisation, the Ministry of Robbery of Huge Assets created for decades by workers, peasants and all citizens of the Serbian state. It is the real name of the ministry headed by Minister Bubalo, a friend of Aleksandar Vlahovic, who was the previous minister and who directly participated in many of the robbery privatisations while he was the minister of economy and privatisation. In this law, Article 28 mentions that all economic operators should apply to fill out some form of payment for these obligations when it comes to taxes, along with the Ministry of Labour. What does an inspection do for work in the state of Serbia? If you talk about the gray employment of labour or people, that humiliation of many who, by force, have to accept all the conditions of these new employers, to work so-called. on black, exploiting them, harassing them, without reporting, pension and social security, and when they reportedly encounter these labour inspections, that they must flee from these work spaces. I almost had a chance, I was in the U.S. End at a citizens' assembly, that out of 250 businesses or shops, cafes, there are some small business entities dealing with production, workers say that half of them are not reported at all, nor have pension or health insurance. When I asked them what the relationship between these employers is with them, as is the relationship in all of Serbia, in the King, here in Belgrade and in Novi Sad, they have to endure everything and everything. If they don't, they're fired with two or three words and they're bringing in a new worker the next day. Everything in this country is upside down. The poor or the majority of the poor, which is the largest number of Serbian citizens, fulfil their obligations to the state, but that is why this minority, who is in power, whether at local, or at the republican level, pays no commitments, is enormously rich, lives in luxury and debauchery. Is it possible for the same rates of tax to be on goods of broad consumption and on luxury goods? Is it possible that the luxury, which we see in fact now at every step, from the streets to these hijacked places in the city's nearest center, is the eyes of most poor people who can't put an end to the end, the malts don't even have bread, and I'm not saying that the basic obligations of communal services are at rest? There is no minister here to ask him, as a parliamentary group of SRS from the King, we have submitted two requests for a budget inspection in the audit of the budget of the municipality of Kraljevo for 2004 and 2005, and to review the work of municipal public enterprises. We didn't get any response from the finance ministry or from the budget inspection. The answer will likely be oral here that the budget inspection has a small number of employees and that it cannot manage to exercise control throughout Serbia. Minister Dinkic will use the budget inspection when it suits him, so we saw it on the media, especially electronically, how he theatreally sent a budgetary inspection to exercise control when the results of the referendum in Montenegro were found. Probably to show concern for the funds of Serbian citizens, who have been paid or spent through those services of the state community. Has the Ministry of Finance and any part of the ministry ever controlled the work of other ministries? Do we have a report on what's going on at the Ministry of Capital Investments, what's going on in certain directorates of the Ministry of Capital Investments? What is happening now in the Public Roads Company, earlier was the Roads Directorate, how much was spent, was this purposefully spent, these revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget, their own revenues or over 300m euros of loans from the state through this National Assembly in charge of the reconstruction and construction of highways, highways in Serbia? We don't have any reports of the spending of those funds. I mentioned about privatisation, we often heard here and from Minister Dinkic and other ministers that it was the government's income. What government revenue? Or that it's government property. The government is in fact just a set of officials who have and care for state property, and the owner of all state property or owners are all citizens of the Serbian state. And it was said - she earned the government through privatisation. It's sad to say what's said first, and that's what you think. What did the government earn through privatisation? That would be the same to you as the house I inherited from my father, farm or meadow, and I say I earned it. I have not earned anything, neither the government nor the state has earned anything, one property that was owned by the state, or all citizens of Serbia in early enterprises, various forms, was donated or given into indemnity through auctions and tenders and in fact creates some privatisation fund. In fact, the privatisation fund didn't go at all, it went into the budget and those funds went into consumption. And now that story about Mobtel and the sale of Mobtel for a billion euros. Whose government does he sell? How does he negotiate with someone in Austria? Has the government notified this National Assembly of what is happening to arbitration in Switzerland, what about Karic, how relations on arbitration have been resolved, how is this supposed to be concluded with this gentleman from Austria? Here, since the minister is here, I'm asking a parliamentary question. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia to take me out as a national MP and all MPs on the course of the arbitration proceedings in Switzerland and on the alleged conclusion of a contract with that Austrian about the sale of Mobtel. And he'll resign in a few days. (President: Don't be mysterious, please, for curiosity tell us. ) About many, I expected as a man, not as a folk MP, that this bench that allegedly started to unfold from the BIA, the Special Prosecutor and the Department of the District Court about the former President of the Trade Court and others would continue, but unfortunately, like all other affairs, it was closed, released as an affair, a round there was held in custody and no one further in public knows what was going on. Also in the case of former C market director Radulovic and many others. How is it possible for this country to simply rob and hijack huge assets and escape from the country, and allegedly dispel some warrants and no one ever announces what's going on with those warrants. Has the state taken steps through Interpol to seek extradition of both Karic and Radulovic and many others. Congratulations cannot be those involved in the robbery and kidnapping of Serbian citizens, the robbery and kidnapping of the Serbian state and those directly with the biggest thieves and criminals in the country. But the people and citizens of Serbia are aware of the overall situation and will rule in the extraordinary parliamentary elections, I hope until November at the most, and then the SRS assumes the power of all those I mentioned, and I mentioned a part of them, which is one thorn in a huge group of criminals and robbers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27510	Thank you, Mr. Four. First word has a minister, such is the order of the Rules of Procedure. Whenever a member of the government asks for a word, if the promoter gets the word. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27511	Thank you. Here is an answer to the parliamentary question, if I can take the opportunity to answer the parliamentary question about arbitration in Switzerland immediately. In fact, the capital ratio in Mobtel since its founding was 51% Karic, 49% of PTT on behalf of the Serbian state. In all this time, even the dividend dinar has never paid Karic as a private co-owner to the state based on the profits Mobtel had during this period. In the summer of 2005, Karic concluded a contract with a consortium of Austrian investors, led by Martin Schlaf, where he sells his 51% to the Slaf, but no one has ever seen the contract. They published it, but the state authorities didn't see it. In December, based on data received from UNMIK, where Karic unauthorizedly subcontracted Kosovo's Ekrem Luka, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision to withdraw the license to Mobtel. In January of this year, the state, on the basis of a proposal from the finance ministry, takes over 90m euros in claims from two Austrian banks, Raiffeisen Bank and Hypo-Alpe-Adrie, and becomes the majority trustee in Mobtel, thus gaining legal ground to completely reverse the situation in the negotiations. Because in the event of Mobtel's possible bankruptcy, after taking over this claim, the Austrians lose everything and are forced to negotiate with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These negotiations last for three months, where the following contract is eventually agreed: that the state, based on the claims it had and the mortgage on its equipment, so the repeaters and other assets necessary to carry out this activity, becomes 70% owner of Mobtel's assets, and the Austrian consortium 30%, with the Austrian consortium obliged to withdraw all claims that BK Trade has ever filed against the state in the last 14 years, and the state to withdraw all charges against BK Trade also in this period. In that sense, after the conclusion of this agreement, where the state becomes the owner of 70% of property and 30% of Austrians, the lawsuits and arbitration in Zurich were dropped on the day of the conclusion of this contract, or thereafter. An appeal for withdrawal of the Supreme Court's license has been dropped, so some 14 different lawsuits have been dropped following this agreement. Given that the Company is currently composed of repeaters, employees, user bases, and has no license, as you know in December, the government announced in Telekom Srbija that it is temporarily performing this function until the election at the new operator's public auction. Given that the state of Serbia is the owner of the licence, then the essential ownership of the Republic of Serbia in the current operator is not 70%, as concluded on the basis of the assets, but is up to 82%, when the price of the licence is recalculated. In this way, I can say that this government has managed, with 49% of the shares in Mobtel, on the basis of which the previous governments have never charged dividends, to put the state in a position to become essentially the owner of 82% of the former Mobtel. A new company, Moby 63, has been formed, aimed at privatising it, along with another license. Otherwise, between 2005 and December 2005, the Austrian consortium offered certain government ministers to buy 49% of the government's ownership of the Republic of Serbia for about 250m euros. It was an offer back then. Meanwhile, since this was rejected, of course, because first nobody even considered the possibility of selling the state part out of a public auction, or tender, the second sum was very small, came into the situation that a public auction invitation was called and nine bidders appeared in the first stage, expressed interest. There's a data review by the participants, by the end of July this year we'll have a public auction in front of TV cameras, where whoever wins the highest price at the auction. The initial price is 800m euros, which means that the state essentially belongs to about 650m euros. Of course, depending on the competition, the price can go even higher, and that is how the Mobtel issue is resolved, and will finally be resolved by the end of the auction process by the end of July of this year. After that, whoever wins has an obligation to take over everyone employed in the "Mobtel", except for those against whom appropriate court proceedings are being conducted. On the other hand, in the meantime, the administrator, which is Telekom Srbija, quit to some members of the Management Board of the former "Mobtel" who from the Karic family, who were not in the function of carrying out the work, had already received some applications. That's the answer to your parliamentary question. So neither government nor ours nor any future, or former, owner of these privatisation funds. In this way, on the one hand, we are dealing with a complicated situation that existed in our mobile phone, and on the other hand, we have managed to reverse one rather lost situation all these 14 years and take away from the back and arbitration and lawsuits, and come into an active position to up to 82% of the sale belongs to the Republic of Serbia's budget, and this will be part of the basis for implementing the national investment plan. Minimumly, we expect the state to receive about 650m euros in the privatisation process, with an agreement being reached that if the price at auction is lower than a billion and 100m euros, the auction consortium retains the right to remain a minority owner of 30% of the company, and if it is over a billion and 100, then it must sell to the new owner. As you know, companies from all over the world have signed up. We have Deutsche Telekom, Frans Telekom, Russian MTS, a company from the United Emirates, one company from Egypt, which almost won the tender in Italy, and we also have Mobilecom Austria, two companies from Sweden and one Norwegian company, so the competition is pretty strong. We expect that in this process, I do not believe that all nine will decide to participate until the end, but we expect a competitive procedure and to achieve as much cost as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27512	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. The Messenger of the people, Ivana Kovacevic, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. I thank Mrs. Raca, who gave up on the replica, probably because she has 10 minutes at her disposal, as an authorised representative, on that occasion she can take advantage of that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27513	Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the Serbian Parliament is today considering amendments and supplementing two very important laws. These are the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Why are they important? First, because it concerns all citizens of Serbia. As soon as we adopt these laws, the fact is that the income tax will be reduced to 12% and an untaxed share of the profits of 5,000 dinars will be introduced, which will relieve the economy of 30 billion dinars. And yet, why does it matter? The economy will be able to invest in new investments, in job creation, and that means more employment. Who else does this matter to? It's important for employees, too, because this way it's going to stop working on black. It's important for farmers too, because in the next two years, we're going to release them from income tax. Who else does it matter to? I must mention that there are many citizens who are already investing in voluntary pension funds. So, the amount of up to 3,000 dinars, which are withdrawn from their salary voluntarily, will not be taxed. What I think is crucial in the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Finance, these are the measures that will encourage the employment of exactly the categories that are most difficult to employ, which are mostly on the labour market, at least on the basis of the National Employment Service, which are young people, persons with disabilities and above 45 years of age. As for young people, any employer who employs a person under the age of 30 will be exempt not only from taxes, but also from contributions, which is a very important item, in the next two or three years, depending on whether the trainee is involved. I am also taking the opportunity to answer to the students who were in the congregation the other day who were very interested in this, because they are the ones who are about to be hired, so this measure will take effect on September 1st. It's important that we pass these laws here, and on September 1st, they will come into force. As for the disabled, any employer who employs a disabled person, an indefinite period of time, will be exempt from taxes and contributions for the next three years and an employer who employs over 45 years of age will be released in the next two years. This is a very good proposal for me, and it is the right way to run an active employment policy, because I have to repeat, discharging the economy, on the one hand, frees money for new investments and job creations, and encourages employment of precisely those categories that are most difficult to employ, these are young people, persons with disabilities and above 45 years of age. She would refer to people with disabilities. If we look at their position in Serbia today, we will conclude that most of them would very much like to get a job with the remaining work capacity, because they would rather be engaged than be supported. I think this is a very good way to help them do it. In this way, they will exercise their constitutional and civil rights, will not be supported and will be able to work as hard as they can. I have to say that the social inclusion of people with disabilities in all areas of social life is what G17 plus stands for, and that is why I will personally be pleased, and I guess everybody else, too, back these bill proposals. One more thing about the effects of this law, that's what I'm personally very happy about, because that's what's in our program, and that's discharging the economy in poor municipalities. We are aware that there is an unbalanced development in Serbia today, and this will encourage even development and development in rural areas. When we talk about underdeveloped municipalities, we often mention southern Serbia, there are underdeveloped municipalities, part of these municipalities are located in eastern Serbia, but we often forget that much of Banata is underdeveloped. This measure is exactly what will make the citizens of Banat happy, which is why I urge us to vote for these measures, because villages in Banat are not small, it counts for several thousand inhabitants and simply not everyone can deal with agriculture, not everyone has been trained to deal with agriculture. However, since they have no chance of finding a job, some of them are moving to the city by their own will, but some are forced, because they simply have no choice and cannot stay where they might want to stay. This is now an appeal, when the Greenfield investments start and the incentives start to take care of these very municipalities and that these incentives for these municipalities are bigger. Of course, the municipalities must be active here. The municipality can't wait for only the government to bring some measures. The municipality itself must take measures, in terms of how much building land there is, to equip it communally, to prepare anything that will stimulate the creation of new jobs, small plants, whatever business facilities. In the end, if I wanted to sum up all these proposals, I'd put them in one formula that reads: smaller taxes, more jobs. I call, on behalf of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, for all of you to vote for these laws and for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27514	Thank you, Mrs. Kovacevic. Which is youth, in my day it wasn't a school for farmers at all. National MP Milorad Mircic, 15 minutes for your parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27515	The basic idea or objective of these laws is to make it easier for existing economic operators, i.e. the economy, and to act stimulatingly on potential investors. But when we look at the essence of the bill, then we'll see that this is not enough relief for the economy, nor enough stimulant for potential investors for a number of reasons. First, when, on average, as the minister of this bill has shown, it has some significance for the uninformed. If in total mass you look at what stimulant it is for businessmen, then you could by that rule, what you lose, or what you get on the bridge you lose on a keg or vice versa. Here, in a redistribution that is viewed in tax policy, compensation is still sought in that part that is smaller and smaller, and which in this difficult time has some income and what the minister says is large incomes. Relatively in some of our conditions, it can be called that. Let's see what kind of stimulant that is. By reducing the income tax from 14% to 12%, by adding total taxes and contributions from 73 to 62.7%, by having one price of 5,000 dinars, and when you add it all together, and having in mind the parameters based on which not only this bill was made but also the proposal of a much more important law, the budget law, the parameters that predict inflation, have been proven and shown not to be true, they are not true. Because inflation is already far beyond those forecasts that are embedded in the budget, and therefore, when it comes to this censorship, you can think about inflation that I'm guessing is planned to be 9.8%, when it's double-digit, how much that censorship of 5,000 dinars is going to mean, realistically how much it's going to mean. What's very important to potential investors, it's a kind of security. They are looking for security in a system that works, in a policy that runs the state and in legislation. How can I have security in a system that works when that system doesn't have a strategy. How can they be sure of the political will of the ruling coalition, when it is variable and in office is the will of those who give them a warrant. How can a potential investor in legal provisions, when legal provisions are changed daily, be assured, even by the regulations of the government when it comes to the area? Besides, there is one factor that is very important for potential investors from abroad, who never waste time stressing that, which is trust in a man who is the most responsible for tax policy. Now that the finance minister is seen as a technical person within the Serbian government, it could be said that he is implementing a policy dictated by the government. However, he has progressed, he is also both a relevant and significant political figure, he is the president of a political party that participates in the government. How now to convince a foreign investor that a man who is not only a "technical person" within the government, but a relevant political figure, will not turn one over to undo all these decisions. That man, as governor, closed all the banks with the move of a feather. This man literally showed how vindictive he sometimes knows how to play a significant role. It was on one of the companies, whose bosses he personally resented, that he showed that he had to take personal revenge and that the company should be destroyed. How to believe, now significant and from a great role, a person who literally formed the National Savings Bank based on fraud and malfeasance, and then simply privatized and informed the public, even if there were irregularities, it is now too late, it is privatized. This is something that is significant and that potential investors must consider. In such privileges and privileges is a significant role and personality, especially of functions. As for the legislative proposal to stimulate the reduction of the number of unemployed, it may be significant if we had developed an economy, it might also be important if the economy recorded some growth. But we are in a situation where in this country only small and medium-sized enterprises function, when two large NIS and EPS systems are ahead of privatisation, where we expect an additional number of layoffs, or unemployed. What does it mean to stimulate an employer if for two or three years you do not charge him taxes and contributions, and by law you oblige him that the period of employment of such a person must be longer than two or three years. What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything to him. Why? Because he doesn't have enough resources to finance current production, because our situation in medium and small businesses is that people are up to their necks on mortgage loans. We're just losing sight here that the governor is informing us of the real danger of new borrowings, of new loans, citing as an example small and medium-sized enterprises, including personal borrowing, and the minister here is serving us and saying, this is something that will improve, which will reduce the number of unemployed. At the very least, when that man says, then you can say it's two-faced. The man who takes care of the downsizing of the number of employees, who, by his move, closed the banks, forced 5,000 officials out of those banks. A man whose signature stands under a recommendation or regulation and government orders to reduce the number of employees by 10% at the level of local self-government in the authorities of the administration. That's 50,000 new unemployed. What is the effect of these laws, let's make it 5,000. What are we going to do, ministers from the 50,000 that you insist local self-government fire. Where's the stimulant for the reception of new young people up to 30 years? You're firing employees already, creating a social problem. Count, privatizing EPS and NIS additional number on the street. What's your bill and your thinking, I won't be in power, so let anyone else in power solve those problems. The best example is to be served by the one you've replaced. You can see there's nothing out of date. Do you know how much he had such bill, initiative, he even personally participated in signing the Constitutional Charter. You see how you first put it on a pillar of shame, and imagine when the law enforcement authorities reach it. So always consider it an example of the warning, the one who led your party until yesterday. You have to answer for what you're doing. You can propose laws, but you must convince both current businessmen and potential investors that there will never be any expression of self-will. Here's one example, colleagues were talking about investments in Novi Sad, $600,000 million, and what problems they're facing. Just because the investor is Swiss, the contractors from Russia, founded a mixed company based in Novi Sad, or Belgrade, which is not with permission or favor, or the goodwill of members of the government, people should now have problems. Six hundred million dollars, that's your biggest investment since the Krško Power Plant. So, at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, the biggest investment, and instead of the government being a service, not to work out the vanity, you haven't heard from yet, but you always act out of the shadows, some of your colleagues have already started to shout out loud that there's no point, what kind of a way, don't ask the members of the government. Six hundred million dollars needs to get into this country. It takes hundreds and hundreds of new jobs to open. The investment itself employs a complete construction operation, and all logistics, everything is from Serbia and we already have problems. See how you predicted selectivity in this legislative proposal, so you said a decrease of 73% to 62.7% is selective in regions or cities, so Novi Sad and Belgrade say 63.8%. What's going to happen, Minister? That most will report their company's headquarters in underdeveloped municipalities. Didn't you learn lessons from the example of autocarriers and caterers mass registering companies from Novi Sad based in Sremska Mitrovica, because taxes and taxes are much lower. Of course, it was in those republics, I only know Janša and Kekeca from that country, I don't know anyone from that country, what a country that has fewer residents than Belgrade, but I'm telling you on the case of Serbia. And then a legal form will be respected to, say, register companies from Novi Sad in Novi Crnja, which is one of the underdeveloped municipalities, where taxes will be reduced, a reduced contribution and the company will be paid on the basis of applicable laws and rules in the municipality, and will work and operate either in Novi Sad and Belgrade. How will you proceed? Of course, there is a possibility, there is a space for what is not an economic category, for what is not in the area of finance, which is party membership and political commitment. So who is close to possibly the ruling coalition or any political party, I will not be apostropheing you because it is not safe either, you have the elections in progress, you have the turmoil, perhaps your colleague Albianic has expressed some ambitions, but in any case, those close to the parties that are in power will have the privilege. Well, according to them, one archaic will say that he can do so in accordance with the law, because the law regulates and says that he can move his seat from one municipality to another, with the tax and contribution obligations being met, and then he will take your criminal expeditions from the tax police. And how they do it on the ground, if by any chance you're in a coded party G2 plus 17, then you're free of all responsibilities, if you're not, then you have to answer. And the budget when it's full, it doesn't mean these criteria, but it means the amount of funds you need to earn, so how did you make a drastic difference here between those who have and those who don't have, and so you're going to punish those who aren't close to your political option will pay for those who are close, but have committed a violation? By this law, you allow it. Anything in the law is not specified, which is not clear and is always called in the people and in ordinary life is called legal holes, they will use them, the state will remain denied, and you will reduce the possibility of winning the Nobel Prize, as you have announced.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27516	MPs have immunity and have the right to make a lapus, but if it repeats multiple times from the pay phone that 50,000 makes up 10% of the employees, please check, because if 500,000 people are employed only in local self-government, that is, of course, an additional reason for the concern of all citizens. Be kind enough to answer that question now or in the coming days in response to the parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27517	I would just like to give one clarification, not allowed in this law, nor is it envisaged that if someone formally reports to a company in the White Palanca, and lives and works in Novi Sad, they get a bigger tax charge. Essentially, the discharge depends on the level of pay. The higher the salary, the lower the tax charge, and the lower the salary, the more tax charge is assumed to be lower in the poorer regions. In other words, you do not get a disbursement from 86% to 53% in the White Palace only if you report a company there, but if you pay a salary that was unfortunately only 8200 dinars in December. You have a censorship of 5,000 dinars untaxable and only 3,000 is essentially taxed at a rate of 12% and that's where you get that discharge. In other words, either I didn't explain it correctly or you didn't get it right, but I took the opportunity to explain it. So the discharge in these regions is not automatically to the head office in the region, but to the level of the actual real salary paid. Finally, when it comes to responsibility, of course no one is free of responsibility. As I was available to all possible authorities dealing with this, at the time I was not governor of the National Bank and when many, from Ceda Jovanovic via Duško Mihajlovic, tried to find something in my work, so I will also be tomorrow when I am not a finance minister. I have no intention of being the majority finance minister, but that is why I intend to stay in Serbia and, unlike Karic, who has escaped responsibility, because apparently he has an unclean conscience, I am now openly saying that there is no authority to come to Serbia at any time and that I will leave Serbia for it. I'm gonna stay here just because I did my job fair and square. I believe what we've been doing has produced results. I believe that, unlike you, the reform of the banking system has allowed us to now have employment growth in these banks, we have more bank employees today than five years ago, we have banks where people today are raising savings without order, this old foreign currency savings that was frozen 15 years ago. We have banks that approve loans and yet we have one shift that I'm proud of. As far as the National Savings Bank is concerned, I have repeatedly said that this bank was established in full compliance with the regulations. No law here has been broken. It's just that it's a bank that helped pay off a good part of the old foreign savings. As for the tax policy move, there will be opportunities over the next 30 years. See what another finance minister will do in the next 30 years, will anyone manage to repeat what this finance ministry has done, from a deficit of 4% of gross domestic product, come into surplus plus 2%, so 6% of gross domestic product to make a positive balance, and then also use it to cut taxes. There will be other finance ministers, just follow how they will lower taxes. I am proud of this law and I expect most MPs to support this. I am also encouraged by today's discussion. There were good comments. I think that a comment with the indexation of untaxable tax exemptions and censorships makes sense, and if someone has made such an amendment, we will accept it or we will make one amendment that will be given by the Finance Committee, so either way it makes sense. I fall into those who always accept what's rational, which is logical, no matter what side it comes from, but I'm always against criticism for criticism. So, I expect support from this law and, of course, I think this will be one of the key factors for greater investment in Serbia. As far as this investor is concerned, I don't really know anything about him, no one has asked me, no one has consulted me, no one has informed me about this investment in Novi Sad. If it's $600 million, every investment is welcome, if it's serious investors, no matter who it is, no matter what local self-government, so that in this sense everyone can have an associate and a friend in terms of investing that leads to employment, no matter who's in power in that local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27518	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich, thank you and for your good wishes, I doubt I'll be watching for 30 years. Sure, let's move on. People's MP Milorad Mircic, I assume it's a replica, a misreading? I know everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27519	Come on, Mr. Dinkich, take him back to the party, see he knows everything. Just for clarification, I said, I wasn't precise when he talked about reliefs, and that can also be seen from a stenogram on the case of Belgrade and Novi Sad. For this reason, even in the law, it is precise in the sense that the censorship is 5,000 and that it is taxing only that difference between 5,000, but I see no reason why you have potentiald in regions, or cities. You might have wanted to say on a case where these cities are at the very top, but then you could find an example of Beocin municipality. It's a municipality that has the highest income per capita and per employee, but it doesn't matter now. What's the point, I didn't even say that you're a personal man and a minister who bothers or tries to prevent such an investment in Novi Sad, but I already said, now the truth is not working, but your colleagues, some colleagues are. And why is that? Because other than some personal reasons, they still don't know they're ministers, and they're gonna find out that when you tell them because you're a marketing expert, with that drummer, and that would be best with your friend to tell them, because they're just tone and sound of drums they can hear, but when they're done with their mandate, then they will. What is the essence of this investment? It is a property purchased by a Swiss company, where local self-government had no influence, but on the territory of the town of Novi Sad and only the presence of senior SRS officials was sufficient reason to begin by announcing the possibility of preventing such an investment. That's what the public needs to know. That's not what I'm telling you. It's what the public needs to be familiar with. Just because in the territory of the city, where the SRS was present with its coalition partners, or where it holds power, only because Tomislav Nikolic, as the most prominent political figure of the SRS, attended the signing, at the invitation, on the one hand, investors from Switzerland and contractors from Russia, and with the presence of ambassadors, is the reason to prevent such an investment and this is the real picture and opportunity of how and how individual ministers function. You have even more responsibility than these adventurers, you have become a relevant political figure in the past month and not only as a minister to stand behind this law, but you must as leader of a political party to be a guarantee. And all of this I've cited is a series of examples where you've shown inconsistency, and your former leader's example is not only an example of science, but to all those who say the same as you, it's not from Serbia, so of course it's a broad term, a different locality where some will stay in Serbia, but Serbian citizens know that everyone has to answer to the law. After all, you saw this with your coalition partners who later, for the sake of truth, persecuted you, who later illegally replaced you from the seat of the governor of the National Bank, but you were bewitched with them, praised all their actions and did not let yourself forget the example of your former president.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-05-0.u27520	Thank you, this in front is an example of a timer, so I'm asking you all to take care of it. I'm sorry, Mrs. Plassic, the authorised representative for this point in front of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, you probably missed it, it's Mrs. Vesna Raca, you missed that information, I apologize. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We're going to the debate on the third item of the agenda tomorrow morning at 10.00 p.m. The session will be chaired by Vice-President Vojislav Mihailovic.
