ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11740	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 30th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which usually starts with an anthem. A warm greeting for MPs and guests, members of the Council of Ministers and all present. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] We have been informed from the cabinet of the Chair of the Council of Ministers that Mr Zoran Tegelti is unable to attend the session because of his previous commitments. The absence was justified by the MPs: Enver Bijedić, Nermin Mandra and Edita Đapo. There are 28 present, there are those who announced a delay. We're moving on to the agenda. On the previous agenda, points are removed: Point 18. Annual report on the results of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution for 2021, issue: 01,02-37-1-786/22 of 19. 5. 2022 at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission for the absence of a proposal for material. Point 22. The appointment of the director and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Agency... no, the agenda adds points, I know it has this point. Therefore, the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, number: 05/8-50-15-940/22 of 15.06.2022; Report on the determination of candidate ranking point 23. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-34-1-684-22 of 23.6.2022; Point 24. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes for the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I., Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), Law No 01,02-02-1-495/21 of 16.6.2021; Point 25. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to comply with the text of the Law on Supplements to the Law on additional value (proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH), Law No: 01-02-1-378/21 of 9.3.2022; Point 29. Providing co-authority for the ratification of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, No: 01,02-21-1-977/22 of 21.06.2022; 2 Point 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Cross-border Co-operation Programme for 2020 between the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-21-1-987/22 of 23.06.2022; Point 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Grant (Reginal Solid Waste Project in Zivonica) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to an investment grant from the Swedish Agency for International Development and Co-operation (AIDS), issue: 01,02-21-1-993/22 of 24.06.2022. They have been amended as follows: point 3. Proposal for an amendment II. at the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MEP Dženan Đonlagić, issue: 01-01-1-573/22 of 13. 4. 2022. (first reading); with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission point 5. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents: MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, issue: 01- 02-1-863/21 of 21. 4. 2021. (second reading); with Report of Constitutional Legal Commission Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponent: Representative Nenad Nešić, issue: 01-02-1-812/22 of 24. 5. 2022. (first reading); with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission point 7. Proposal for a law on the entry of membership to the constitutional people, the national minority and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, No: 01-02-1-529/22 of 28. 4. 2022. (first reading); with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. The word has the vice-president, Mr. Denis Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11741	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and present guests in the O.R. In accordance with Article 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I request that today's agenda, or today's session of the House of Representatives, be a new item of the agenda, i.e. an initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, be decided as soon as possible on the temporary suspension of customs rates in respect of imports of goods, namely for the euro diesel, lye oil and gasoline 95, petrol 98. This initiative has a high urgency element, because if we adopt it today, the Council of Ministers of BiH can make a very bad decision, which as a positive result would have lower fuel prices in BiH and, of course, would be of great benefit to all BiH citizens, taking into account the current purchases and the negative effects of inflation. We all know that a large part of the economy depends on the price of oil and oil derivatives, so I believe that by abolishing the customs rate on imports of these goods, there would be a stabilisation of other prices, not just fuel prices. I note that BiH is almost the only country in the region that has such a customs rate on oil imports and therefore I call on you to put this initiative on the agenda and adopt it today because we can practically have lower fuel prices and other supplies in BiH for all BiH citizens as of next month. You got the material this morning, it's officially protocold and distributed to all clubs, so we can make a statement about it. 3 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11742	Thank you. Mr. Brane Borenović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11743	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman. Well, here, in accordance with Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Members Magazinović and I propose to include in the agenda of the 30th session of the House of Representatives a new item of the agenda titled – Review of the emergency adoption of the Bill on Excise Law in BiH No: 2-02-1-298/22 of 11.03.2022 in order to minimise the negative economic effects due to the high price of oil and oil derivatives with a proposal for a conclusion that reads : The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the Peoples of the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH to adopt urgently and without delay the Proposal for Law amending the Law on Excises in BiH No 01-02-198/22 of 09.03.2022. I think I absolutely don't know what it takes to explain that here, almost four months later, who knows what time we ask the second House in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to confirm in the same form of the bill that we have adopted here with a vast majority of votes on 9 March 2022 with the aim of abolishing oil excise duties and oil derivatives for 6 months. Today is the price of fuel, here, when I came from Banja Luka, I saw it reach that magical border of 4 km. I see here at some gas stations already 3,81-3,85 KM, and what can be done with this Parliament's decision, which has already been voted in the House of Representatives, to lift excise duties for half a year and make the price of fuel, which is oil, which is unleaded, almost half a KM cheaper than it is at gas stations today. This is one kind of procedure, and by who knows which way of formal appeal of the House of Representatives to the House of Peoples, who for various reasons, no longer enters the content and essence, stalls, stops, stops to reduce, that is, lifts the excise duties on fuel and at least for a few months as easy for citizens, but also businesses and all those who pour fuel into their vehicles, to make it cheaper for 30, 35 to 50 fencing. I think this is something that absolutely deserves to be the point of the agenda, to have its priority and thus to stop any further, further explanation of something that we have seen many times in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11744	Thank you. Mr. Saša Magazinović, is that the same proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11745	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11747	Only two sentences in favor of this. So, 110 days ago, we adopted the suspension of excise duty in this House, so 110 days ago. Since then, it has been 2640 hours that have been quite enough 4 hours for the House to do the same. I will remind you, Prime Minister Višković gave his consent and publicly said, Prime Minister Novalić also, however, MPs, above all the SNSD, first claimed that it was illegal, therefore, to lift excise duties and make fuel cheaper 30 to 45 fening, and then when Mr Dodik said it should go in that direction, it suddenly became legal, but the same law was rerouted to procedural corridors that he had not yet exited. A constitutional commission where the law should be scheduled and cancelled and we are coming into a situation where events are overcoming each other and we are slightly forgetting that the House of Peoples has remained obliged to plead and finally, either adopt or reject that law. My personal opinion is that he's stalled for reasons to keep that money in the budget and buy that money. It is my personal opinion, but in any case, the House of Peoples needs to bring an end to this procedure and it is illogical that 110 days should be made known about the law that is too simple. He's just saying, excise zero. And to add, I absolutely support Mr. Zvizdić's initiative. I think that we should be considered, I think it is necessary to consider it in an emergency procedure and that the abolition of customs duties of which is not the EU, CEFTA or the country with which we have a special arrangement would allow the expansion of the space in which we can obtain fuel at another address, because today we are focused precisely because of those 10% only where customs do not exist. If we lift those 10%, then I hope it will be, not only cheaper fuel, but the possibility of getting fuel, and that's why I consider this initiative an extraordinary good.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11748	Thank you. Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11749	Thank you, Chairman. Just a few words about this insinuation that someone is obstructing the adoption of the Excise Act. We are witnesses, or all of us who come from Republika Srpska, that this is one of the conclusions of the National Assembly that will be respected. However, what is also evident and logically complete, that opposition MPs, of course at pre-election times, go with such initiatives and nothing is strange or unusual. However, whoever has been following the situation globally can, with great certainty, determine that we live in a completely uncertain time where no one can assume, as Mr Magazinović has said for a moment, whether and to what extent energy is available, and in particular cannot assume what the price will be, nor can from the experience of monitoring countries in an environment that have applied such measures, guarantee that by abolishing excise duties and in any extent, there will be a reduction in prices, or a desirable effect for citizens to whom we all seek. As far as SNSD is concerned, we are a party intending to continue to act responsibly towards public finances. We intend to maintain the stability of the overall system, especially the financial system, because we are obliged in these times of crisis to intervene in a direct way where we are and where we consider it most necessary, and this is directly to certain branches of the economy, directly towards citizens who are at risk. But since we're not running away and I think about that every initiative needs an adequate way to talk, and that we don't need to run away from any of the measures that may have been proposed today, I'm just going to ask the lead when these discussions are over for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11750	Mr. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong quote. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11751	So, a colleague respects that we're transferring the suspension of excise duties and cheaper fuel for 30 to 45 fening because it's a pre-election campaign. Once again, this was proposed and adopted in this House 110 days ago by emergency procedure and if it is true, and it is true that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska has also given support, then someone needs to answer why the adoption of the Act on Excises in the House of Peoples is blocked, why is this not an emergency that we are looking for? The second thing, a colleague says that they are responsible, I quote – according to public finances, so, I say, that you are responsible for the budget, but you are not responsible for the citizens, because you care about keeping that money in the budget and having it in your pre-election time, and you do not care about making the fuel cheaper 30 to 45 fencing. That is why this point is proposed and put on the agenda because too long has been silent about the fate of the Excise Elimination Act, which, people think, is rejected, has not been rejected, it is still alive in the House of Peoples. We have to do what we can after we adopt him here, to speed it up there. I don't want to open other topics any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11752	Thank you. Wrong quote, Branislav Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11753	I really think that, not that it's hard, but it's impossible to defend something that's indefensible. People, we are all aware that this is another attempt and step that we need to take here at the House of Representatives to the House of Peoples, says Saša after 110 days, now four months, will pass a law that will abolish the excise duties for six months that everyone in the region does, which every country does. I can't understand a single excuse for something like this. It is true that it has been stopped from going through an emergency procedure in the House of Peoples by four SNSD delegates Milorad Dodik and I want to say that one more time. My colleagues, Prodanović, Špirić, Majkić and Nović have stopped their voice against the fact that we have abolished excise duties and cheaper fuel here almost four months ago. Don't do this, don't gnaw the people and the people and the citizens and the economy and all those who expect society to do, the power, what's in her power. Of course, we can't affect the fuel market, but we can influence the reduction of the price and the diesel and the unleaded by 30, 35, 45 fening, maybe more because of, of course, the VAT on excise duty. There's no need, it's been spent four months, it's been lost for four months because you're running procedures on purpose. ...the chance to get better because what you're saying is irresponsible,
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11754	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11755	Anti-nationally, against interest and economy and people no matter what part they come from.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11756	Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, guilty of allegation. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11757	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, getting out of context is what Col. Magazinović said, so also Mr. Magazinović doesn't know what the budgets are for. If you do not know, here is a concrete budget of Republika Srpska this year to finance twice the salary increase of users, i.e. enlightened workers, cultural workers, police, etc. We think that the answer to inflation is the best one that is direct, and as far as pay increases are concerned, to the extent possible. Secondly, once again, we expect an increase in pensions by the end of the year, which also when it comes to Republika Srpska's part being touched by a missing portion directly from the budget. It's about getting out of context. As to whether or not we are or not to lift the excise duties, we are, yes, but when we're sure that it will actually produce an effect. I'm still no one bored, and we analyze every day, he hasn't convinced me, but we'll reach out to that measure and we won't run away from it, but what if we cancel the excise and there's no price reduction, which is very possible, what did we do then? Secondly, the temporary measures as such are very problematic, this is what I ask all of us, so I have, we witness what's going on on on the global market, prices rise, we end the excise duties for six months, and there comes a day when these excises, for example, have to come back, and what are we going to do then? So, having an increase of some kind of liter for who knows how much? So, it's perfectly clear to me that you're going now, it's pre-election time, you have to attack everything, you have no responsibility to anyone, nothing, and it's your right to act that way. I say once again that we are ready and we will honor the conclusion of the National Assembly, but that is not how you imagine to run the state, to run public finances and to be, so as you perform, it is not a way to be responsible for the citizens and the system in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11758	Saša Magazinović, wrong quote, second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11759	Why don't you work out a deal with yourself first, whether you're to cancel or not, because you say we're in, so add a decimal, well, then tell the whole story which is an argument why you won't do it. You say, we'll do that when we're sure, let's inform us today when you're sure, here's 110 days you've had to become sure you need to lift the excise and you haven't yet. Can I ask technical services not to interfere as I speak, please? So, fellow Members, when you're sure, you said, we'll cancel when we're sure of the effect, when is that day? What kind of experts, which are experts, extraterrestrials who need 110 days to realize that when you lift the excise duty from 30 to 45 fening, that fuel will be cheaper for that amount? Who are the people? Where are those experts from? Russian, European, who are they, where do you show them to us? It takes them 110 days to figure out when you cut off the excise duty that fuel will be cheaper, what kind of genius. He says you're raising wages, so no one asked you to do what you want, and the people will appreciate it in the election, see if you buy them before elections or not, but it has nothing to do with excises. You're saying the best answer is direct help, so isn't it direct help to make fuel cheaper right now for 30 to 45 fencing? Do you live in the same world with your voters or is it a parallel world where the price of oil and oil derivatives does not matter? And finally, in this story, I know that she is to you for that reason and difficult, so in this story there are no entities, no Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, ostali, because everyone is equally difficult and you're all in a position to help but you're thinking for 110 days whether you're sure that the fuel will be cheaper if you decide it's cheaper for 30 fening. I really don't understand it. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11760	Branislav Borenović, wrong quote, another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11761	Well, I don't know what to say anymore, and what hasn't already been said and even some interpretation and reasoning that, if the excise duties were lifted, would it be cheap if the excise duties were lifted, of course they would. It was supposed to be four months on average cheaper for this amount of excise duties in the price of each litre of fuel. No more direct, no more justified and no better economic measures and support than the one concerning the suspension of the excise duty we adopted here at the House of Representatives almost four months ago, 9.3. I don't see any valid argument, not one, I have to say, a normal argument that someone's contesting it. Ask the people of the economy, ask your neighbors, ask your party people, ask all those who come to the gas station all day and get 10, 20 or full of fuel reserves, which would mean that at this time the incredible economic crisis saves up by a tank of 30 KM or half a liter of brand. There's no logical argument that you're giving us and don't do it any further. Let us end this agony that lasts so long as you are only us, and so much money has been raised in the budgets based on the collection and collection of VAT, that it will remain money and for one-time assistance according to the categories of population to be given certain support. And giving up around 300,000 marks because of this measure will absolutely not endanger the budgets, even left with enough money based on VAT revenue growth for the first 6 months of this year. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11762	Mr. Damir Arnaut, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11763	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you see, Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać is talking about this, about some fiscal responsibility as an explanation why she might not vote for this initiative today. What fiscal responsibility, I mean, I'll talk about this when the budget's in order, but I think taking into account this allegation is necessary to remind me here. You are increasing your salaries in this budget by 95,000 thousand marks compared to the 2020 budget, 95,000 thousand additional salaries, and this includes a huge increase in the salaries of elected and appointed officials and advisers in BiH institutions. An additional 11,000,000 for budget fees for 2022 compared to Budget 2020 and that is not enough. You have increased your travel expenses by 3,500,000 marks compared to 2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11764	The agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11765	Phone calls, so to speak, the wrong quote is about fiscal responsibility. Here, where the fiscal responsibility of 3.5 million marks is higher for the budget, for travel, from 12,000,000 to 15,000,000, where fiscal responsibility – the cost of postal and telephone services by 1.200,000, from 7,000,000 to 8.900.000, and today it is time for Vibera, Whatsapp, and so on, by a million marks, you increase, uh, the cost of telephone services and then the problem is to lower excise duties on fuel. There's no fiscal responsibility, here's what the excise money needs, 8 need for an extra 95,000 grand for the salary, for an additional 11,000,000 for the fee, it needs an additional 3.500,000 for travel expenses, it needs an extra 1,000,000 for the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11766	Mr. Arnaut likes to remind us of the Rules of Procedure, respect for the Rules of Procedure, here I now remind you all of us to stick to it. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic has a discussion, but let's stick to the agenda correctly. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11767	I am very glad that this issue was put on the agenda again, given that I am at that session on 9 March when it was discussed and when it was the point of reducing the excise duty and it seems to me even differentiated the VAT rate, I cannot find it, suggested an additional conclusion requiring the Council of Ministers to offer within 15 days a set of measures to overcome this current crisis, believing that the abolition of the excise duty on fuel was only one of the measures, and even that differentiated rate or the elimination of VAT or already what we suggested on certain provisions of life, however, it was rejected in this House. So, denied, even from those parties that today, whose MPs are proposing this today. So, as part of this agenda, if adopted, I would suggest that this conclusion be restored because I think that we are the only country where the Council of Ministers or whether, Government, the Council of Ministers is simply called, has not proposed any measures, and we have had a crisis for months and is getting worse. So if this point is adopted, I will submit to the protocol the same conclusion, so, here, let's see if the MPs feel that something should be done by the Council of Ministers, because obviously at that session they didn't consider necessary, and then I said that I was proposing that the reduction of excise duty on fuel is insufficient, excellent, I welcome it and of course, I voted for it, but it's not enough to help our citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11768	Thank you. Mrs. Nada Mladina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11769	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that, I don't think, but I'm sure that we're voting on proposals to supplement the agenda, I want to say that Mr. Zvizdić's initiative certainly deserves to be included in today's agenda, as well as this story that's now spreading, I don't know why, already proposed at this House of Representatives' Act. We're only talking about the procedural completion of this task that this House of Representatives has completed and left the House of Peoples on hold. So, we're not discussing it again, it's justified, it's adopted, I welcome the proposal for a conclusion Mr. Borenović gave and the explanation given by our Saša Magazinović, I think and Mr. Borenović is ours, we're all ours. I suggest we put it on the agenda and not discuss the details. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11770	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Ten minutes off before the agenda statement. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to make a statement on the amendments to the agenda, on a proposal to supplement the agenda. We're voting in order as we've won. The first proposal by Mr Zvizdić, which is tasked by the Council of Ministers, to make a decision on the temporary suspension of customs rates as soon as possible. Prepare the plea. Of the 29 present – 24 for, against 4, abstention 1. There's a general majority, there's no... __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11779	Thank you. Good afternoon. I welcome all present. So, like you said, I got three answers, two of which I'm going to comment on. So one answer is actually a question, a continuation of some of my earlier questions, and this refers to the events that were already, it seems to me, two years ago, when it came to the so-called anti-fascist protest against the mass held here in Sarajevo at the time of the memory of the victims of Blajburg and I, therefore, followed the event since it was not announced, since it had no specific permits etc. I asked a question, so maybe half a year ago I got an answer from the Ministry of Security, or the Council of Ministers, that they were informed by the police agencies that the investigations were ongoing and that I would, therefore, be publicly informed of what they were doing when they were doing their business. These actions, as I have now received in this response, were carried out by police officers of the Centre Police Station and the Office of the Police or the Police Department of the Sarajevo County, therefore, filed a misapplication when they held talks with the organiser of the passage. They filed a complaint for a misdemeanor to the Sarajevo Municipal Court, which, however, refused, and did not follow the procedure at which the Centre Police Station again complained, and then the kantonalan or County Court in Sarajevo accepted the opinion of the first-degree solution, so it stopped the procedure. They believe that there are no violations, therefore, and the operational authorities of the Centre Police Station have, after their actions, found that there have been violations of public order and peace, and here you see, I wanted to make that possible, as it seems. So, this agreement between the police agencies and the D.A.'s office, you remember that they were then banned from gatherings, remember just how expensive it was without any permission, and now I wouldn't comment any further, but just for the sake of the public. The second question I asked was for Mr Milanović's failure to come to BiH. I set him up in the first month of 2022. I have now received an answer and about, now that I am not convincing him everything, you could see him but I have been told that the competent agencies do not have any concrete information on the threat of the president of the Republic of Croatia, which is why the departure to Central Bosnia was delayed at the time. And they, as far as I can see here, point out that they had no operational knowledge whatsoever, but that it was the knowledge of the agencies from the Republic of Croatia, and that they had no knowledge, therefore, that it was the threat of Mr. President of the Republic of Croatia which, behold, they could not confirm anything except that they had no knowledge. Is this saying, therefore, about cooperation when it comes to such important procedural actions between the two agencies or what is at stake, that if one agency, if they say so, or the agencies consider that there were elements of the threat, they cancelled their arrival, 14 and our agencies that say they are cooperating with some other cases, here, migration, migrants, say they have no such operational knowledge and that they are based only on what the Croatian security services have said. There's nothing left for me but to believe them even though I doubt that this and one and the other answer didn't satisfy me and it's not right like this, but what's there is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11780	Thank you. No more comments, closing point 2. Point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for an amendment II. at the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MEP Dženan Đonlagić, issue: 01-01-1-573/22 of 13. 4. 2022, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission Last session of the House did not accept the opinion of the Constitutional Commission negatively, and the Commission is responsible for drawing up a new opinion in accordance with Article 113. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. The Commission has not again established that the proposal for an amendment is in line with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, to go to the legal system or to support the principles of the amendment. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion and limiting the debate to five minutes. No reports have been reported, closing point 3. Point 4, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2022, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-02-1-911/22 of 8. Six. 2022. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11783	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Right away, I'm going to have a little five minutes to comment on this Budget Proposal, but I'm going to start this discussion in a sarcastic way because I think this situation with the adoption of this year's budget and deserves it, so for this reason I'm going to thank the Minister of Finance and the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH who is not present today, which they still honored us with this draft and the Budget Proposal for 2022, because, as we know, it's not the custom for each year to prepare and deliver the budget for adoption. The example works, the budget for last year, 2021 in this House, we adopted it in this year, so a year ago, instead of in advance, which means we're all going wrong and we're doing everything wrong. And it's really negligible the work of this Council of Ministers summoning because they're doing almost nothing, they're slow working beyond all deadlines and as we can see, and what they're doing wrong is. Unfortunately, this situation is also extremely worrying and all that is happening in terms of planning and adoption of the state budget in recent years, or practice, is that BiH institutions are financed on the basis of a Council of Ministers' decision on temporary financing, which in every form limits normal work and functioning. I don't know if there's anywhere in the world that this irresponsible treatment and conduct of executive power, in our case the Council of Ministers, according to the laws of its state and according to the budget as the highest financial act. Article 10. The law on the financing of BiH institutions states that the BiH Council of Ministers is required to submit to the BiH presidency a draft bill on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the coming year no later than 15.10th of the current year. The BiH Council of Ministers only adopted a draft budget bill for 2022 at the 51st session held on 06.06., which was sent to the Bureau by the Ministry of Finance. As I have stated, the Law on the financing of BiH institutions is clear and precise, and does not foresee at all the possibility of a budget being submitted by the Council of Ministers prolonging or delaying beyond that deadline. So, in a concrete case for the delivery of the draft budget law for 2022 to the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers broke the eight-month deadline. This is not, of course, the first time that the prescribed deadlines for the adoption of the budget are broken, and as we can see, the Council of Ministers acts as if there is no law. If the Council of Ministers can work like this, then I do not see the purpose of having and that we need a law on the financing of BiH institutions at all. I am interested in who is responsible for such unlawfully apparent illegal work, and how can we prosecute and sanction those members of the Council of Ministers who are acting contrary to the law and exercise their own will? It seems to me that as long as one of the executives and members of the Council of Ministers does not end up in prison, this practice will continue to be a common, practice of free conduct, daunting, work without responsibility and obligation towards this respected House, which is also eventually the entire composition of the Council of Ministers. What is done is a classic abuse of position and authority because of Article 10. The law on the financing of BiH institutions established the obligation of the Council of Ministers to submit the draft budget to the presidency by 15 October of the current year for the following year. So, no, I won't, for political reasons and other reasons, but it's an obligation that has been laid down by law. In particular, since the Council of Ministers did not do so in due time, it is logical to finally try to establish responsibility for such illegal work, irresponsibility, abuse, haughtiness and inaction. Article 3 The law on the financing of BiH institutions states that the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is responsible for budget preparation, budget implementation and financing of budgetary institutions...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11784	Time, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11785	Co-ordination of activities to ensure budgetary resources and investment of public funds, and to carry out other activities in the area of financing of budgetary beneficiaries in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Those provisions give rise to the responsibility... of preparing the budget. It is interesting that the Ministry of Finance in its Opinion on the draft budget law for 2022 under point 3 where the constitutional basis is stated
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11786	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11787	It did not also indicate compliance with the law, i.e. they did not find anywhere that the draft bill on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2022 was not done in accordance with Article 10. The law on the financing of BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11788	Mr. Emrić, you've been talking for a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11789	Chairman, I'm talking about the Budget Proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11790	Well, we're talking, but we've limited time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11791	Well, I really don't see the point of our debate at all if you're going to limit us to five minutes each time. What can we say in five minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11792	It's not every time, and don't let us have a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11793	It is, every time. It's a practice chairmanship. Last time you limited the discussion, this time you're limiting the discussion, I really did then... just to suggest a conclusion about the budget. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11794	I'd like to suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11795	So, I suggest the conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on the BiH Prosecutor's Office to investigate the work, action and actions of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Council of Ministers and determine all circumstances and possible responsibility for which Article 10 has been violated. The law on the financing of BiH institutions and determines the circumstances why it does not comply with the prescribed deadlines of the draft law on the budget of BiH's institutions and international obligations for 2022, which has prevented the timely adoption of the BiH institutions' budget law and international commitments for the year 2022 and threatened the maintenance of the General Elections issued by the CEC of BiH for the year 2.10.2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11796	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11797	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also welcome all present. So it is obvious that we are again as a House of Representatives, the largest legislative body brought before the final act. Of course, we can today and not adopt the budget, and according to us here and some people in the institutions will not produce any consequences, but we also have to be aware that it will cause consequences for those people for whom it has been skillfully written that if the budget is not adopted today, it will remain on those minimum salaries, which is one significant number of people, especially at this stage when we have such inflation, this kind of rampage of prices, according to these people is neither fair nor fair. What is also indicative is that it is obvious that the authorities have enormous amounts in the budgets they have, which are objectively and objectively not used as a return to BiH citizens through quality incentives programmes, support for businesses, social categories, pensioners. Of course, I'm aware of the limitations that they have on the state budget, that this is part of the government, but that's the fact that we have to face. So we have a choice not to adopt the budget and everything remains as it was in previous years, or to realize all the flaws and shortcomings, and not to play through any amendments, and especially through these discussions where you can't read a third of those numbers that should be read and pointed out the shortcomings and what we have right now in the budget. I sincerely hope that some future government will not bring us into this situation and that we will have budgets that we will be able to conduct through both the draft and the public debate, and only then bring them to the point and function, first and foremost, of the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11798	Thank you. Mrs. Mira Pekić. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11799	Thank you. I welcome all present. Here, in five minutes, hopefully, I'll be able to say what I think about this budget. There are three things I would look back on in the '22 budget. A year. First, which is our previous year, the 2020 budget, 2021, we have not adopted, the government has not adopted the House of the Peoples of Budget in '21. A year, so this is a little bit, not to use an ugly word, a strange situation to me in June of '22. For years, we look at the 2020 budget and we refer to it. The other thing is increased revenues, increased revenues from indirect taxes compared to the '20s. It's 85 million a year, that's a lot of, a lot of funding. If we are all talking about reducing indirect taxes, or if we are talking about reducing VAT rates and suspending excise duties. This budget could hardly have planned less if we knew that before, I always refer to the year 2018, that 950 million was enough to settle all obligations, and then it was taken 750 million from indirect taxes compared to these 865 million, which is for 115 million more than it was then. Certainly we will always come and be brought before the final act, that with this budget we are waiting for and people employed by the Joint Institutions, I certainly support the increase in salaries and the increase in pay base for people who are employed in the Joint Institutions, but I think in this existing item, which is set aside for gross wages and fees, given that it is formed on the basis of existing systematization, that there are a lot of reserves that could increase the salaries of existing employees, and we certainly see that there are some 10% increases, so there is no justification for this kind of budget, for the billions and 73 million budgets for BiH institutions. And the third thing I want to say is, it's something that really surprised me in this budget. I've been expecting a lot, and I've seen this increase of 20% to certain institutions, some contractual obligations, etc., all of which has been increased enormously and unwarranted, but on this one side where there are risks that can endanger the execution of revenue collection, it is said that the risks are a reduction of the fight against the black market for tobacco processing, the other risk is a weakness of the fight against VAT fraud and the third risk is to propose changes to the policy of indirect taxation such as the differentiated VAT rate and the temporary elimination of excise duties on derivatives. You say this is a risk, I cannot agree that initiatives and the work of MPs and amendments to certain legislation, be classified together with risks such as the black market for tobacco products and the reduction of VAT rates. What we do is not a risk, what we propose, or what our colleagues propose, is certainly something that is necessary to adopt in BiH institutions, and not in this way that each of us, every attempt to reduce the excise duty on derivatives and every attempt to introduce differentiated VAT rates, should be cited as a risk. The risk is this way of collecting indirect taxes, it is a risk for people living in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11800	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11801	Good afternoon, fellow colleagues, distinguished guests. So speaking of this Budget, I'm going to say that at the Committee on Finance and Budget, it was unanimously adopted in the first reading, and hopefully today we're going to bring this adoption procedure to an end. For many reasons, I hope so. Here it is related to 19 previous discussions need to be noted, and very often it is mentioned in the negative context of the BiH Ministry of Finance. It has been made clear several times by the Ministry of Finance that the global financial framework and its adoption are a necessary legal prerequisite for the creation of the BiH institution's budget. I will remind you that this global financial framework for the 2022-2024 period was adopted on 30.3. This created the necessary and necessary prerequisite. Today we have this budget and it's important to say. The Ministry of Finance has just been linked to the adoption of this global financial document by a series of, I think, over 300 urgenities and letters written that warns of this need precisely because of the situation we are in today. It is important to say that, without questioning the responsibility of anyone to adopt or not adopt and this global financial framework, even the budget at the time when we bring it, it would not remain unsaid. When we talk about adopting this budget today, it seems to me, colleagues and colleagues, although none of us are ideally able to adopt the budget in this way, in the accelerated procedure, we adopt it at the end of the 6th month, it will work for half a year, and it is very important that it works at least half a year, because the budget provides for an increase in salaries for employees of BiH institutions that are almost 25,000 next month, in the next month of the month in which this budget was adopted. The financial resources for these pay increases are foreseen for this half-year, as I heard at the Committee on Finance and Budget, so if we succeed in this few days at both houses to resolve the budgetary adoption issues, the complete financial framework concerning the half-year will be applicable and used and these salaries, and we must be at this moment and aware of both our responsibilities and not bear sin at the end of this term. Every responsible employer in the real sector in the last few months has tried and probably found internal reserves to raise the salaries of his employees. We are employers for these over 20,000, and this House is somehow an employer of over 20,000 employees of BiH institutions and today it is precisely responsible to do what we are trying to do, to adopt the BiH institutions budget in this House to send it to the House of Peoples and to hope that it will be treated in the same way in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11802	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11803	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, this is exactly what I was talking about at the beginning, that is, during the debate on the agenda, but here's what Mr. Kožul is talking about. It has nothing to do with, this increase, one small part applies to people who need it the most. And here's your data, 22% increase the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly, 18% increase the salaries of employees in this state parliament. In the presidency, 16%, and in the Ministry of Defence, soldiers who have very poor working conditions and very low wages only increase 6%. So, in the state parliament 22% increase, 18% on salary, in the presidency 16% on salary, and in the Ministry of Defence where the soldiers are 6%. Do you know how much increase there is for the SIPA and the Border Police, where the cops are? 7% for wages. So this budget is designed to raise salaries for almost a quarter of elected and appointed officials and advisers, while at the same time making a minor pay increase for the people who need it the most and the people who deserve it the most in this country, which are soldiers and police officers. So what you're saying is absolutely not 20. On the contrary, the budget is designed to damage these people, and to further increase salaries and compensation for those who need it the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11804	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11805	Well, I appreciate the knowledge of Mr. Arnaut's legal segment, but these percentages as he counts, they just don't stand. So the question of increasing the value of the point to 530KM refers to all employees. It is true that due to our coefficients, an even higher increase will be among those who have higher salaries, but relatively higher percentages are the same for all those employed in BiH institutions, it is important to note. And speaking of employees of BiH's institutions, the majority of those employed by over 20,000, I will remind myself that the HDZ Club in this House has proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries and Refunds that concern just the people who have the lowest wages. I hope that this law will come into force soon, and I am sure that within this budget there are funds related to such an increase in wages that is selective, and not selectively, as indeed, this increase is related to the value of the point. I also remind you that today we will have on the agenda the initiative of colleagues, the president of our Club, Nikola Lovrinović, who again concerns the selective increase in compensation precisely for the part of employees who are not elected and appointed officials. This is the way we in this club are trying to involve ourselves in the issue of the social status of the BiH institutions. This is what we can do in BiH institutions, all those other social measures that are not, which are selective, which break through people who need help can be implemented and are within entity, county and cantonal and local self-government institutions. It is therefore good and important that the budgets of the institution increase so that these social measures can be effective. And it is important to say when we talk about the financial revenues of BiH institutions, as well as budget revenues.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11806	Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11807	Mr. Kožul, that's all theory, not even a well-founded theory. So these percentages don't lie, pay increases in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly 18%, the presidency 14%, the Ministry of Defence 6%, the SIPA and the Border Police 7%. To translate that into figures, it means that the average minister and MP in the state parliament will jump by 400 to 500 marks, soldier and policeman less than 100 marks. Let's just let everyone have the same percentage, the starting position is unequal, and then the result is 4 times more unequal. 400, 500 marks according to this budget you have referred to in the procedure are increasing the salary of the Minister and MP in the state parliament, the soldier and the policeman and 100 marks. That's what people understand, let you and points and selectively so forth.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11808	The word is Mr. Zukan Helez, a regular discussion. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, first of all, I wondered if we'd even discuss it, we'd already spent almost half the budget, and here in a few days this unworthy, as well as any previous, sixth salary, is it our representatives and our budget users and we haven't adopted the budget yet. Here's today's session, and I hope we adopt this budget. Now, look, I'm one of those guys who said that we should get candidate status over the line for a million reasons, but how do ladies and gentlemen, how do we do that if we can't adopt a key document in the country, here's this whole mandate we adopt it or a year later, or half a year later, and they're right when people say -- let's work on these key things a little bit more, and then we can talk about it. I will never understand why we are being obstructed if we all need each other, I repeat to the Srbin, both Hrvat and Bošnjak, and everyone else. And I'm just going to give you some information, here's because of the lack of budgets of what's going on in our country, the data that I got, that in the Middle Bosnian Canton, I'm just going to list a few municipalities, how many first-graders were enrolled in primary school, in the first grade of primary school, and what you like to say, this ruling majority, I have exactly divided by H and B, or Croatian children and Bosniak children. In Gornji Vakufu and Uskoplj 117 Bosniaks, 24 Hrvat, in Bugojn 214 Bosniaks, 10 Hrvat, in Jajc 100 Bosniaks, 45 Hrvat, in Fojnica 70 Bosniaks, only 8 Hrvat in the entire municipality, Busovač 105 Bosniaks, 36 Croatians etc. Now you're gonna wonder what this has to do with the budget. It has nothing to do with anything. First, this failure creates one depressing picture in BiH, non-functioning, etc. The second thing is, we're leaving with members of the Armed Forces who are employees, who are on the budget, so a man can't live to live with 700 marks of salary currently amounts to an ordinary soldier, border guard 800KM, etc. So, people because we don't take care of them leave BiH permanently. If this isn't our gentlemen's alarm, in Fojnica 8 students of Croatian nationality in the first grade, I don't know what else to be our alarm. Here, I ask those who say they represent Hrvat, to represent Bošnjak who have led to this situation that only 8 students of Croatian nationality are in Fojnica or, no better, 70 students of Bosniak nationality? What I am interested in in the budget and what I have been trying to propose for the whole mandate, however, I have failed unfortunately, which is that several hundred million marks are allocated to the BiH Armed Forces' equipment and weapons budget. Gentlemen, we don't have a helicopter that's right, capable, here comes the heat again, unfortunately and the fires, we can't shut down, there's no state of helicopters. What we have and what it is, how we are equipped with the Armed Forces, what I'm not saying should be a special session of thematics to talk and talk about. Unfortunately, whether you agree here many or not, but what I think we all know is the functioning of our country, and unfortunately the adoption of the budget depends on the will of our neighbouring countries and on the will of the representatives of the international community. Do you think today we would have had a budget at this session if it hadn't been for the terrible pressure of the representatives of the international community? Here, all that we have done badly in this term, let it be a lesson for some other people who will come here and learn from our mistakes because, as you see, they all suffer the same, both Srbin, and Hrvat, and Bošnjak, and everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11810	Thank you very much. 22 I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, I'm sorry. He's got the wrong quote. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11812	Is it guilty of allegation or intervention to what Mr. Arnaut said and what Mr. Zukan said, so I repeat again what Mr. Kožul said, therefore, Mr. Arnaut to, absolute figures converts to percentages, therefore, manipulates it. It's exactly what Mr. Kožul said, so we're all equal to that, so they're not positioned according to their coefficients in the Payments Act as it would lead to something else. That's why we, I repeat again, have proposed a law in which, until coefficient 4, we have tried to repair the basics, or coefficients of those with the lowest wages, and that's what Mr. Kožul also said, so we're talking again. And on the other hand, I would remind him that from the last term and this we are looking for and we are trying to find a way to pass the law on parliament and that people who are employed in institutions are therefore separated from appointed and elected officials so that that would be the solution, that the wages would really increase in the way they should, I agree. However, we have passed the Law on Parliamentary Oversight which, among other things, he has abused, but we will have that point later, and we have not passed this law on parliament that would then resolve, separate people from that, so that there will be no question at all. No one can suggest a budget against the law. As for Mr Zukan, therefore, this is not what he said, these remarks about the number of students to say, well-intentionedly, he said this on purpose, so I would like to see what he did to his Bugojn to help the returnees of the Hrvat and to give me at least one example of what he did to make it happen. And this is because Mr. Zukan, which among other things is your party involved in the political dissipation of the Croatian people. So we've been saying it for years, we've been saying since 2001 that we're being taken away from our rights, that we can't react, that we can't...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11813	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11814	Right, so that's why... you didn't say you were well-intentioned, but because you're malicious.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11815	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11816	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I mean, look at this argument now, we're all the same, but here's not the same coefficient. That sounds like what we played well, but we got screwed by a judge. Let's do the numbers again, the average MP and minister in the BiH Council of Ministers' salary as of July 1st, if this budget is adopted 500 marks a month, by the end of the year times six, that is 3,000 marks, the average MP and minister in the Council of Ministers. The average soldier and 1st of July cop will be 80 km higher, so those figures don't lie. People with the highest salary increases by an additional 500 KM, so the salary will be increased by an average MP and minister almost as much as the pay for the soldier and the policeman. Now, Mr. Helez was talking about it, a soldier has 700km starting salary, and MPs and ministers, according to this draft budget, are growing an additional 500 KM, a minority as a full salary of a soldier or a policeman. So the numbers don't lie, they're very clear, the percentages are clear, and that we're all equal in percentages, so the starting position is completely different so that we don't all end up equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11817	Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11818	Dear colleague Lovrinoviću, I don't know if there's a sentence, if there's a word that any expert can characterise that I've done something malicious. I've got the exact data, the clean data. Which hurts you, that it's your fault, that you're carrying the blame, that's something else entirely. Here I will now tell you exactly about Novi Travnik – 135 Bosniak children and 49 Croatian enrolled in the first grade of primary school. You live there, you're a key political factor, you have the head of the municipality, you've been a key political figure in New Travnik for many years, and that's your shame. It has nothing to do with me, I'm convinced that no one has moved that Dragan Čović is not a member of the presidency, which he lost in the elections, no one has left this country which has not passed in the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11819	Budget, Mr. Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11820	I'm responding, correcting the wrong quote. ...are you sorry for Lovrinović?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11821	We're talking budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11822	I'm saying the wrong quote, the wrong one. If he had made a good point, I wouldn't be saying this. This is the correcting of the wrong quote. You cannot defend Mr Lovrinović, this is exact data, exact facts and may you be ashamed that this is how the Hrvat from BiH disappear, and you often say – I represent the Hrvat. Now tell people what this is like. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11823	Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11824	Mr. Zukan, may you be ashamed. This is what you've done to us and made an aggression against our villages and villages, by attack, by banishment, etc. This is your shame, not ours. This is the result of what happened in '93. A year, but it's not what the president said. On the other hand, so, of course it hurts, that's why I'm talking. Suffer us, suffer us and your party most and others. You've been suffering us for 20 years by taking away our political rights, so we can't exercise our political rights, we can't fix this situation. We don't have a chance, we don't have a way, and then you're skillfully putting it on us. I asked you who you helped. You're just talking nice, and you helped him get out of Bugojne, that's what you helped him do in '93. A year. As for Mr. Arnaut, so, Mr. Arnaut, I'm pulling back again, undermining again, the Ministry of Finance can't propose an illegal budget, it can't. What I don't like about what you're talking about is that's why we've also proposed a pay law where we've moved the coefficients to those with the lowest incomes in order to achieve even a little bit what you're talking about. But until we change what I was talking about, until we pass Parliament law and separate us from the other employees, that's unfortunately how it will be. And I agree with what you've been saying, but don't put out any inaccuracies, so the Minister of Finance or we can't pass an illegal act, we can't pass the law halfway, one like this, you know as well as I, or we have to change it, but we haven't changed it, and that's how it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11825	Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11826	Mr. Lovrinović, I will not enter these wars, uh, it is also another topic, but here is where there was no aggression on the Croatian people, it is the Tomislav Municipality. The entire southern part goes to one elementary school, I can list the settlements if you want and there were once enrolling thousands of children, 95% are Hrvat in that area, today Mr. Lovrinović thanks to, I repeat, your policy that is not right, which is bad, which makes people from this country, there is only one child enrolled in the first class, and next year, they already have data, there will be 0 children. From 1,000 to 0, that's all HDZ can do, only HDZ can. There's no aggression there, no one's touched, and there's happiness, there's a changed chief, there's another political option, there's no HDZ anymore, and I hope that exodus that made HDZ will stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11827	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. In line with the earlier decision of the House, we declare before voting on the bill's proposal, we declare on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr jasmin Emrić. Is there any need for me to read the 10 - row proposal? No, I think you've all remembered. 25 Please prepare a statement. Of the 28 present – for 13, versus 7, abstentioned 8. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. Then we'll make a statement about it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We repeat the vote. Not everyone voted. Of the 28 present – 13 for, 8 against, 7 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. In this circle, we did not adopt Mr. Emrić's proposal for a conclusion. We are declaring ourselves on the Bill's proposal on Budget in the first reading. Of the 28 present – for 20.4 versus, 4 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that Dom adopted the bill in the first reading. As agreed, after the adoption of this bill in the first reading, the current amendment phase begins for an hour, so up to 14 hours. We expect amendments, and in the meantime we continue to work. I'm closing point 4, or we're going to continue point 4 when the amendment phase is over. Point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents: MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, issue: 01-02-1-863/21 of 21. 4. 2021, with the Constitutional Commission Report
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11832	I thank the chairman. Although my discussion will deal with the Law or what it is likely to be because of these opinions that the Human Rights Commission has delivered in particular. So, my colleague's proposal, the countryman from Travnik, Nikola Lovrinović, professor of history who specializes in the Middle Ages, otherwise for those who don't know, that's what we're talking about today. It is very simple, it makes it impossible for BiH citizens to register their ethnicity in their personal documents. I do not believe that any of you are surprised by this proposal, in the previous months during the debate and debate we had on constitutional and electoral reform has become evident what kind of linguistic and logical acrobatics HDZ is ready to perform in order to go as once the completion of an ethnic division of a country that is organically multi-religious, multi-religious and mixed country. This is a very important question, I am now dealing with this, as I would say, in the legal aspect of this. It's a so-called question of group qualification in personal documents. And believe me, this isn't the first time that this issue has been asked in front of parliaments, both in front of governments and in front of the state and their government and I was surprised even though I knew a little bit about this, about the collegiate study that exists, that deals with the effects of introducing this element into any personal documents. Unfortunately, as I said, that story, is it, starts in Nazi Germany in '38. the year when the Nazi government in Germany then decides to hit the Jevrej personal documents with the letter J. A par months later, what's known in history as a crystal night, and in which the Njemc have fascists, they didn't have to recognize the Jevreje on the street, their ethnicity was listed to them just by the decision of the same government in their documents and it was enough to look for someone's ID card and you knew if, as I say, you found what they were looking for. The same and very similar situation occurred in Rwanda because the Belgian authorities that ruled Ruand were enrolling in the ethnicity of Rwandan citizens, Hute and Tutsa, the tribe. Only because it was entered in personal documents and what was in the system was 27 possible in such a short period of time to execute a genocide of over 800,000 people. It's just one thing, what I've been saying, and some of the reasons why these elements aren't in European ID cards. Of course, there's the interest of the state that in certain defined situations it can identify every citizen, that's why there is, is, is, a ID card. And it today consists, in Europe, of whether, photograph, name, date of birth, issue, validity, sometimes home number and the like, but since August of '21. since last year, a European regulation is in place that prescribes a new look and the elements of a personal ticket for EU citizens. While I now quote this, it is important to make every effort to avoid discrimination for the truly free movement of people in the European Union. The new rules require that the identity card become a defacto electronic document instead of written. The photo disappears from a document called the ID card and together with two fingerprints is located on a special chip that is embedded in the map itself. Therefore, except for the name and last name of the person, only the name of the country which has been turned to only two letters has been requested, and the members have been left with the freedom to identify the person sexually, although they are suggested not to do so because there is no need. So this is the future towards which Europe is heading, a future where ethnic origin, race, religion and sex of its citizens are relevant to the state. On the other hand, the HDZ proposal, which is ahead of us, lists their ethnic origin in the personal maps of Bosnians and Herzegovians in the opposite direction, not according to the future but the past, and more specifically, according to the Middle Ages. And I'm just going to add two, three sentences, this where we are today is an experience of what happens to a society that starts turning its differences into its obstacles, into its own problems, not what it really needs to be, into its wealth. We keep insisting on further identifying the differences between us, rather than insisting on everything that we live in BiH, whose country this is, which brings us together
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11833	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11834	Give me 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11835	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11836	What connects us is huge, and what separates us is little. History, culture, language and what's most important is a common future, because we only have a future together. And that's why, of course, I don't think, honestly to tell you that Mr. Lovrinović had, some, as I would say, terrible intentions from some of the examples I cited, but as they say, the path to hell is paved by good intentions. So I invite you to finally get this proposal out of the agenda today and hopefully never return any such proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11837	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11838	So I have to say that the opening part of my Kojović's exposure surprised me. Making comparisons that he made with the law here is at least illegal and inappropriate. Although I agree with my colleague Kojević that multi-ethnicity, multi-regionality, etc., BiH is her comparative advantage, that it is her spirit and her present, future and past, but her national, ethnic, religious background, unlike my colleagues, I do not want to hide it, and I am proud of it and it is a fact. And now only one practical reason why my colleague Lovrinović put this law on the agenda. I will read you a few sentences from the portal disclosure.B of 02.10.2018 and unlike some colleagues, I will not... but I will read the name of the person to the initials – S.ć. This year's candidate is our party for the FBiH Parliament. She tried to enter the same House four years earlier, namely the House of the Peoples of the FBiH through a nomination like the others from the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly. Her transfer to this House stopped the CEC because it found that compared to the previous elections... S.C., I'm sorry, she managed to change the little thing, her own nation, from the Bosniak Bošnjakinja, she became the ostali. Therefore, the CEC banned S.C. to become a delegate to the House of Nations, because at least one election cycle needs to be passed, not as in this case. Therefore, a very practical example of the abuse of national belongings that can be hidden does not have to be entered in any document, but can be practically applied in the election cycle. And that's the thing we've been warning about for a long time, and that's one thing, I'd say, and the basic motive of this bill. It may pass or fail but this fact remains and this shame remains.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11839	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11840	I am a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and I am very proud to have been one of those who voted against and, and we see that neither the Joint Committee on Human Rights has given a positive opinion. There were several reasons, some of them I led to the Commission but here, I think they should be repeated at this House. First of all, the Commission’s opinion has been addressed in general whether if we already have the Law on registration in the parent books, why is there a lex specialis here, not a law on amendments and additions to existing laws. Secondly, I was at the time explaining that there is already a possibility, so the option to enroll in the birth certificate by whoever wants it. Also, I'm also proud of who I am, I'm not hiding anything and therefore, I think it's funny to say I mean as a reason. I've never changed my nationality or thought, but I don't think it should stand in personal documents. Also, I also told the Commission that as a member of the National Minority Coordination Body, I attended a very useful education where we had a lecturer who was a member of the Monitoring Body of the Convention on the Rights of National Minorities which explicitly said, since she was familiar with what is happening in BiH, that this law is contrary, therefore, to this proposal, contrary to the Convention, therefore, to the rights of national minorities. I would also remind myself that in BiH, I brought this to the Commission, therefore, we have created license plates so that no one knows where it comes from, and we now want to, be careful, to enter the nationality of the personal documents. Unfortunately, so many years after the war in this country, there are still areas where it's not easy how you plead, so besides being a violation of human rights at all, we need to take a little care of where we live. 29 Also, at that time I stressed that I agree that there is an abuse, we could cite examples from the people, from the parties from which Mr Kožul comes, even Mr Lovrinović said on the Commission, but this problem should be addressed in another way. Here, let's see that Mrs. Ć.'s initial. Mr. Kožul could not have been in the House of Peoples, therefore, but there are certain mechanisms that need to be improved, but not in a way that requires us to plead, or to enroll in our personal documents. Also, in this education, we had the opportunity to hear other solutions, so we are not the only country multinational, but there are certain solutions in EU countries that have solved this problem, so here I would like Mr. Lovrinović to deal with such solutions and certainly not to enter the nationality of the personal documents. So I do, and I would also point out that the interest in the adoption of this Act is not proportionate, in the sense that we have several electoral frauds and now imagine we should do this, as my colleague Predrag says, to separate ourselves and to have written down in our personal documents, after all, it's everyone's private matter. I can feel one way or another, every day I would like to change that sense of belonging to this people or to that people, and I can also not plead at all, because that is why the European Court of Human Rights verdicts have been passed, so that we do not have to plead either at all or that we can only plead as citizens, etc. So, of course, we as the Club, and give us most of the MPs here, will be against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11841	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Predrag Kojović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11842	I thank the chairman. I'm going to say very briefly, Mrs Sabina Ćudić was a candidate in the local elections in 2021, not elected Chief of the New City. Then, you realize that as long as this furniture in power is the fourth constitutional category spoken of by Dejton, the so-called ostali, which is an offensive name in itself, has been put in for solidarity as the ostali. And as you said to your colleague, the denominator, Predrag, the CIK found it, I disagree with their decision and did not, as I would say, allow her to become a member of the House of Peoples. So the CEC has the data it needs and reacts when it thinks it's right. Of course, it was the CEC that you then controlled completely, but interesting is the next thing, in the Federation Parliament where the guaranteed presence of at least four members of the constituent people sits a man from Mostar who constantly claims to be a Hrvat although sitting in the Federation Parliament as a Srbin. He argues he has always pleaded as a Hrvat and continues to claim that he is a Hrvat, but on the way from Mostar to Sarajevo, his document has changed the content and he is now a Srbin and that is normal. But that time has passed, as I would say, and it certainly won't happen with this CEC. And one more thing, for a very reason, I said a few sentences at the end about Mr. Lovrinović, that I presented those worst cases in which such elements were abused by the authorities and said that I do not believe that it was, of course, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, but exactly what you said, but as I said - the road to hell is often paved by the best intentions. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11843	Mr. Zlatan Begić. Correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11844	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected media representatives, administrations, guests. Because for the first time in my life, I welcome you all. So, I'd have a lot to say about this bill, but what I want to point out to this occasion is that we often fall into the trap of replacing the thesis and misfocusing the problem. So, Miss Ć. Or Mr. B. or Mr. N. or anyone here has the inalienable right to feel and to plead whatever he wants, inalienable law. Take the Census, you'll see that there are bears and Eskimos, and Indians, and so on. The problem is not with Miss S.C. Or Mr. Z.B., or Mr. N.L., or I don't know who to whom, and his right to feel the way he feels. The problem is in the discriminatory provisions of the BiH Constitution, there is a problem and there are other problems coming out of it, there is therefore the problem. I would pray that if we get into that wrong conclusion matrix, then we'll come to a negativity, is it, the physical existence of the man himself and everything that follows, what my colleague Kojović says, that the road to hell is half-fed by good intentions, and I don't think there's any good intentions here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11845	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11846	... The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the compliance of this law with the constitutional and legal system is negative. The opinion and the committee in charge, the Joint Committee on Human Rights, is negative, so I think we should support these opinions today because we will plead on the opinion of the competent committees. I would reiterate that this law is not in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, because it is the right to declare the ethnicity of the rights which are affecting Article 8. The European Convention on Human Rights, which is the right to respect private and family life and states, has the right to interfere solely if it is prescribed by law and if necessary in a democratic society in order to protect national security, public security and the protection of public order and peace, morals or human health. So, in order for a law like this to be passed, there has to be a legitimate goal and there has to be an objective and reasonable justification to pass a law like this, and I don't think it exists in this case. I would just like to say that the BiH judge at the European Court of Human Rights, then judge, Professor Ljiljana Mijović, told the European Court of Human Rights that a statement on nationality cannot be a legal category because it is a subjective criterion that depends, in her opinion, on an uncle's sense, on a statement by everyone in the way he wants to plead and she believes that this statement is not, does not accept the character of the legal category because it is based on subjective criteria. And here's an interesting opinion I've read from one of the European Court of Human Rights rulings, perhaps we could use it to discuss constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11847	Thank you. 31 Mr. Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11848	Thanks again. So it's still five minutes limited, if you're..
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11849	Yeah. Five minutes, but if you noticed, Mr. Nikšić, I didn't remind anyone that we're talking about Opinion, not what you're all talking about, but here's the debate, so that's what goes for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11850	So here we have one proposal from the HDZ of BiH that would regulate the law to highlight on the personal documents of the citizens of BiH the ethnicity, i.e. the membership of the constituent peoples, other or national minorities, and however much we defend it in my opinion, that is the principle that affirms and introduces new discrimination, I would even say, and racism in every segment of society. We heard from fellow Kožul an example of Ć. initials. The one Peđa said even though we all knew it was Sabina Ćudić, which is a much smaller problem than what Peđa also mentioned in his replica, Mr of Initial g., Goran Opsenica, who in the government of HNK is the minister of the Croatian people, and at the House of Representatives of Parliament, the FBiH representative of the Serb people, and that's okay, we won't talk about it. And yes, it may sound really rough and I don't want to say it at all, and that's what I think Peđa said, that it was the intention of HDZ, but you can be angry as much as you want, almost identical legal solutions were adopted in 1935 in Nazi Germany as a legal framework for segregation and discrimination of the Jewish population and other citizens who are considered low-level citizens. In November '35. the year in Reichtag was passed a Law on the citizenship of Reich where all citizens in documents had to declare themselves as Njemce, Jevrej or others on the basis of which they opened electoral law, the right to public service and so on. All European Court of Human Rights rulings on the issue of the exercise of rights based on ethnicity clearly require the relativisation of the principle of constitutionality. All judgments, from Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's verdict and beyond, stress in various formulations that no different treatment based on the ethnic origin of individuals can be objectively justified in the modern democratic society built on the principle of pluralism. The obligation to pass on all forms of division of citizens on an ethnic basis is also highlighted in a series of acts of the European Parliament, which is ultimately a condition for accession to the European Union, which is what we at least declare. Therefore, the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights rulings is a constitutional obligation that we must carry out in order to join the European Union and by no means introduce new discrimination and new divisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11851	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11852	Thank you, Chairman. 32 It is not, first softly, second softly. Mr Kojović and Mr Nikšić also spoke, and there is no need to speak in the initials when Goran Opsenica himself made a statement to the media – I am asleep, I intend to sleep like a Hrvat tonight, and I will wake up every morning. The CEC is, I'm afraid, instructed to make a mistake, the real question is who is behind all this. We have never received an answer to that question, but it is also a fact that Goran Opsenica, four years later, sits in the Federation Parliament as a Srbin, although, according to his own statement, he spent the night and intended to spend every night after that as a Hrvat. So, this, apparently, abuse happened then, has never been determined who is behind it, but man is still sitting in parliament, as a Srbin. And then you compare it with the right of someone to change the way Mr. Lovrinović's proposal is spoken and I fully support everything that Mr. Kojović and Mr. Nikšić said, including the comparisons, at least when it's an effect, if not the intention, but what I am particularly concerned about is that once someone registers or once registers a nationality in the birth certificate and other birth documents or personal documents, it can only be changed at the age if their parents have signed in, and then only every ten years after that. And then what about situations where people feel completely justified about their nationality, what about mixed marriages, what about children like my children who can possibly feel by their father's nationality in a certain period of time, in a second period of time by their mother's nationality, and maybe in a third period of time, we just feel like they don't want to choose, so they want to be the ostali. I know that this concept bothers you, I know that you, Mr. Lovrinović, that you are getting a little chilly with that concept, but in this way at least 5% of the people in BiH are in this situation, and I guarantee you that there would be an even greater percentage that there is no such self-censorship when people are pleading about nationality because they are aware that these categories of others are ultimately and according to the European Court of Human Rights ruling...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11853	Time, Mr. Arnaut, and he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11854	Well, it's the wrong quote. Chairman, I'm really trying, I should have called for a discussion, but here I am giving up the discussion if there is no further replica. This, therefore, is not, that they are not engaged in this conscious self-censorship because, according to the European Court of Human Rights, citizens of the second order and you would further suppress them here. Therefore, I support Mrs Čolo's proposal to accept the negative opinion of the ustavnopravni and Competent Commission and to put this story into effect once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11855	Thank you. Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11856	I thank the chairman. Also, I support the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I would just like to remind myself that very often the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is of a political nature. This time, I appreciate that this is an opinion based on the Constitution and the first BiH system, and I would also add that this Opinion has a foundation and a foothold in the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. BiH 33 has ratified this International Convention and, in accordance with Article 5 of this International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, BiH is obliged to abolish all forms of racial discrimination, not to introduce any new forms of racial discrimination as provided for by Article 5 of this proposal. Here, I will remind that a member of the 5th Law has been set out to give priority in filling the vacant posts in BiH institutions on the basis of ethnicity, which is discrimination. BiH has an obligation to ensure, in accordance with Article 5(c) of the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, all political rights and, in particular, the rights of participation in elections, voting rights and candidacy, on the basis of general and equal voting rights, the rights of participation in the government as well as the management of public affairs at all levels and the right to access under equal conditions of public office. So, this proposed text of the law is completely contrary to those obligations of BiH, and I believe that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission is absolutely correct and well-founded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11857	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11858	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'd start with what Mr. Emrić and Mr. Begić said. So, if it is true what they are, although Begić has said a little differently, counterpart Begić has said a little differently, what Mr. Emrić has just said to us, then the Constitution is now unconstitutional. So, well said Mr. Begić, therefore this Law is well founded on the Constitution which may be as he said, I am not going into it, it is another debate and it is for something, therefore, this Law is based on the Constitution which is as it is. Is he the one or the one, I'm not getting into that story right now, and that's why I'm talking about the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, so it's not a good opinion. So, I don't agree with that as a suggestion that this law is unconstitutional. He's absolutely constitutional because our Constitution is like that. And now, for the sake of the public, for all of it, for those of you who don't want to just misread things or want to misread them, I just need to read some things. Article 3 of the proposed law and first of all, Mr Kojović, this is not a proposal from the HDZ and some who have said this, but is my proposal. Perhaps you can attribute it to HDZ, I'm a member of HDZ, but this is, therefore, my proposal as a representative. Article 3 says - the data you are talking about in paragraph (1) of this article can be entered in the birth certificate, the citizen's birth certificate and the identity card, so it can, and it doesn't have to be entered, and that's the choice. It's one thing, another thing, the law intended to prevent you from, therefore, simply with your views here today, colleagues, you want it to stay that way. Prevent theft, identity theft, manipulation and the achievement of personal interests based on these manipulations of the national declaration. The law electoral says this - a statement belonging to the constituent people or to the group of others referred to in paragraph (4) of this article will be used as the basis or basis for the exercise of the right to the chosen or designated function for which the declaration of membership of the constituent people is a condition. So this is benefit, this is benefit that led the law. The entity laws that speak of parent books, something Mrs. Lepić spoke about on the Commission she spoke about, and here she said today, really regulate this matter and it belongs to the subject matter of the entity. And she speaks, for example, in the Federation about the birth of a child, that is, the name and last name, the sex of a child, the day, the month, the year, the time, the place, the municipalities, the town of birth, the unique birth number, nationality and citizenship. It says, they sign in, that's what the article says – 34 sign in. So I didn't invent this matter, I just wanted this right that was regulated by other laws, including the Electoral Law and the Law on Parent Books, to regulate it when it comes to the benefits that come to BiH level, and I said that in the article, so Article 4 and 5, and I stood on both the Commission and the other Commission, so no one was discriminated against. What you said to Mr. Nikšić and Mr., so it really doesn't make sense what you're doing. So this applies to all BiH citizens, and enrolling in a personal card is just a possibility that no one has to take advantage of and no one is asking. These are data which, therefore, people when it comes to... benefita will seek the bodies of BiH, not everyone on the road and on the street, Mr. Kojović, and it does not have to be entered into the ID card and as far as I'm concerned, so the law has been returned to the regular procedure, it can also be amended if something is horny and done and we apply it, but the entry into the birth certificates that are already provided for by other laws I did not invent, and that is so in the Constitution. Therefore, do not make fun of me, and do not put me in something that is embarrassing to you that you say, it is embarrassing to you. I didn't highlight anyone to mark him to disavow him, discriminate him, etc., but everyone remains a possibility. But to abuse that situation where you're doing this or with your own statement that the SIP can't verify because it's just said in one form. So, you're aware that from our, our parliamentary bodies to our administrations in directorates, agencies, etc. That's how it's done. You are also aware of the constitutional provisions that the list of employees in the state bodies of the Administration is based on the '91 census. A year. It's a constitutional provision. When we change that, it won't be like that. So how do you do it? How? And a false plea. So he has the right to, but falsely plead when he needs it, to get paid, etc. All my intention was to stop those two things. I, therefore, cannot change the entity laws that speak of it nor was it my intention. Perhaps it is not in a fine order in this law, therefore, the gentlemen's intention is that you can no longer, as I would say, say that you are and that to achieve your position in the House of Peoples, to be the director of some agency and directorship and get paid and benefits. That's the intention, that's the intention, and that the authorities have the ability to verify it. You have seen there in this article when we talk about subsequent enrolment, so, okay, they'll accept your SIP statement that you're the one and that one, but they'll send it to your body later to write it down, so you can't keep lying and messing with it and not achieve it. And so, this law applies to everyone and those you mentioned if they belong to my party, I didn't say the law would apply to, I don't know, any party, and it wouldn't apply to the party that I belong to. The law is the law, it applies to everyone. ...why do you need such a species and a gentleman so-called, my countryman... some things that absolutely don't stand. So it's not about the right to move, it's not about the right to do it... it's not about anything. So you're all adding something that has nothing to do with anything, and you're hiding what's actually going on. You're hiding this one anomaly that you didn't want to talk about even when you changed the Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11859	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11860	That someone steals, so they steal their identity. And just one more thing, he says, therefore, gentlemen and colleagues, I suggest you reject the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, I suggest we cooperate on this, and as a proposing I am prepared to accept your constructive proposals to definitely resolve this issue once. It is a shame that for so many years there are no rules on internal behaviour in employment in 35 of our institutions, and there is a right. So, ready, if you gentlemen don't want and if it stays like this, I'm afraid you're supporting that paved path he was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11861	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11862	Mr. Kojović, where she's going, as he said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11863	Thank you. Dear representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11864	Well, somehow Mr. Lovrinović always finds the meeting to mention me. I think he has now disputed, therefore, my statement that, i.e. the claim that the Law on entry in the books of origin already allowed the possibility of enrolment, the possibility of enrollment in the birth, nationality and the Commission disputed my claim, but did not read the article until the end. And now I have asked him to read the relevant article of the Law until the end where, in his last position, Article 12, the fact that the nationality in the birth certificate will be entered or not entered at the request of the authorised applicant and this parent or guardian for the entry of the child in the birth certificate, with the child having the right to declare his nationality when he becomes a minor. So, that possibility already exists, I don't see why it's changing here at all, it suggests this special law, since we already have an existing law on enrolment in parent books.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11865	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11866	Mrs. Lepić, so what you read, I read an article that talks about it. So if he doesn't want to sign this, he's writing down what you said, but he's writing something down. Something has to be known there, or it's right. So I read as it says, the birth certificate enrolls, among other things, the nationality. On the other hand, Mr. Kojović, I remained in debt, and why, then, does the EU, for example, bring a declaration on the protection of minority languages, languages? Why are they fighting for it, for example, and there are other declarations that speak of protection... so it has to do with what, therefore, you want to be a hostage of the people, is it? Why are the countries national? French Francuz, with the others living in it. So, I don't know what you mean by that? Mrs. Lepić, my bill's proposal is not or solves the question of the right to register or to ID cards, it doesn't even have to be. If I'd known that ID cards would cause so much trouble, I wouldn't have put them, if that's... so it's enough for me to be in the parent books, because it's a document from which it's going, there's no problem in it, but so, but I'm saying that there's a theft going on, an enormous theft, both in the electoral process and in the employment that's regulated by the Constitution of this country. So, a single executive of 36 certain BiH administration bodies employs those who are required under the Constitution, according to the '91 census. the years in the percentages of these, the third fourths, therefore, all, not one, not the other. But then you'll lead me to that I, someone said here by my colleagues, in the future feel ugly when I say that with Nikol, what my colleague said... I'll feel ugly to say that I'm the one and that, is it? I can be anything, I can be an analyst, I can be whatever you want, I'm going to make a public statement just shouldn't be able to tell myself who I belong to, what language I speak, what I want to be in this country where I live, where I live, where I live. So, I don't understand what you're putting on me right now with the desire to remove the theft, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11867	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11868	... identity to introduce... but not to... 18% to be in the Armed Forces, and they're not even 10%, because someone says they are. That the M.O.P. is receiving a federal of 86.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11869	Time, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11870	...receive 80 Bošnjak, 5 Hrvat... I just want it, nothing else... I have not discriminated against anyone with this law. You're just making things up.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11871	Let us not ruin a part of the quality debate with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, with the intensity of the debate, and there have been quality discussions. Mrs. Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, the wrong allegation, twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11872	One of the wrong allegations, the first false allegation I want to correct is, therefore, what Mr. Lovrinović reads in law, I think I understand that he is not a lawyer. The above is stated in the first position what is entered, but in the last position it is explained that nationality can and does not have to be entered. Also, I'm correcting the false assumption in the sense that we want to support electoral fraud or, I don't know, employment fraud, I also said in my discussion that other machanisms should be found for such things and that, therefore, the change of the law where we should all say what nationality we are, to put it in documents, so that's not the mechanism. The third false allegation is this Convention on the Protection of Minority Languages, yes, it is aimed at promoting and protecting the rights of national minorities, with which the Convention cuts this bill. And fourth, it's just a matter of working out that there's someone here who's afraid to say his name. No, just so you wouldn't have to be afraid to say what it's called, we don't want our nationality to be listed in the parent books or in person...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11873	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Zlatan Begić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11874	kolega Lovrinović, BiH citizens of the Croatian people are not a national minority in BiH and if Bog never will be. This is their country and they do not enjoy the status of a national minority. It's something completely different. Furthermore, there is a difference between discrimination and positive discrimination when it comes to the status of national minorities, but I'm not taking up time here right now, I think we've gone too much into discussion. Furthermore, for years we have been delaying our legal obligations stemming from the facts and ratification of the European Convention, its protocols based on the judgments of the European Court of Justice, to bring discriminatory norms into line with what the provisions of the European Convention and its protocols and what the European Court of Justice have told us to do. So there, when ethnic or nationality appeared as a prerequisite that you could be a candidate at all in the elections, it also opened up the possibility of abuse, but we see institutionally that it was still resolved, which again cuts off the rights of a man that he can and changes his subjective consciousness of belonging to one or the other or third people, no one prevents anything and changes religion and it happens around us. I think sometimes it's good and admit it's gone too far in something and I think you should give up on this proposal to a colleague, Lovrinovic. I think it's gone too far here in every way. In order not to report back, I'm also advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I think we're out of the discussion of the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11875	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11876	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a classic example of the wrong quote that's being corrected, the Francuz, Mr. Lovrinović, so you couldn't find a less appropriate example. Article 1 The Constitution of the Republic of France, the fifth republic says, quote – France is an inseparable, secular, democratic and social republic. It will ensure the equality of all citizens before the law without distinction in origin, race or religion. They will respect all beliefs, the laws will promote equal access to women and men. And Article 2 says among other things, the motto of the Republic is freedom, equality and brotherhood. It sounds very similar to brotherhood and unity, which is probably another concept you're creeping yourself from, but there are us who still inherit those principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11877	Thank you. Mr. jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11878	My kolega Lovrinović, I do not see at all the reason and need to make you angry or feel affected when we point out that your proposal does not comply with international 38 conventions. As an agent, I have an obligation to react and to present my position and my assessment in relation to your proposal. Therefore, we should lead an open-minded discussion, and not that you, in such a way, treat and feel injured, have responded emotionally. But I want to tell you one more time, Article 5. Your bill is contrary to Article 2. The Constitution of BiH which has determined that the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is above all laws, and then, here, I also bind your Article 5. Proposal for a law in relation to the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. We have taken that obligation to end all forms of racial discrimination and forms of racial discrimination that are in the Constitution and the legal system of BiH, not to generate discrimination with new proposals. So where's the measure? And my colleague Begić said well, so we have to stop somewhere. Therefore, this and all of our views and my specific discussion are in good interest to stop the generation of racial discrimination in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11879	Wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11880	Mr. Emrić, I don't know where you are in this bill you've seen racial discrimination, but as you say, you have the right to think about the proposal whatever you want, but it's interesting that you know when it's emotional, maybe because I speak louder or I don't know, and my colleague Arnaut knows when I'm creeping. It's amazing what we have here, how our colleagues watch us and know us. Mrs. Lepić, therefore, could have solved this in another way, even I, and therefore I waited with the proposal of this law, so for example one of the solutions was legitimate representation, it could have solved this story, that someone could not, I say, under the precepts, be selling something like that, something for something. So it could have been that. Mr. Begić, I didn't really want to talk about just one people and God, and therefore, the law, I repeat again, applies to everyone. Not only about Croatian or minority or not to be minority, either Bosniak or Serbian, so I'm talking about the Constitution as it is governed by this state, who owns this country, who founded it, etc. You said well, therefore, we do not implement these laws, and we do not implement the decisions of the Court of Justice, the International Court of Justice, nor do we implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH. So that's our problem, but that's the problem we need to solve, I don't mind dealing with it. So, I didn't interpret France and I didn't think of going into that kind of debate as Mr. Arnaut had experienced, I just said it was the national state of the French people, and they set it up as well as what he read. So it's clear that that's how we need to set up our own country, and we need to set our country up, so we have nothing, we're not invited to do otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11881	Mr. jasmin Emrić, guilty of allegation. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11882	Just to remind my colleague Lovrinović, I quoted in my discussion Article 5 c) of the International Convention on the Elimination and Prohibition of Race Discrimination, so here you can read this Convention objectively to your Article 5. The bill and compare it with the text of the Convention, and you will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11883	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Point eight, Ad. 8. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of members of the HDZ BiH Club - HNS for inclusion in the agenda of the 29th session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: An initiative on the coordination of transport costs and a warm meal of employees in BiH institutions, issue: 01-50-1-890/22 of 8. Six. 2022. After last session did not require an entity majority in the first round of voting, the College of the House as the Commission failed to reach agreement on the proposal. The Commission's report to the College you received, the debate is closed, we remain to declare ourselves later in the second round of voting on the proposal. Point nine, Ad. Nine. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Saša Magazinović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of traffic safety on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-687/22 of 8. Six. 2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11894	Thank you, Chairman. As chairman of the Interim Investigation Commission, I will give an introduction and an overview of the work of the Commission and of the primary conclusions and recommendations of this Commission, and I am sure that the members of the Commission will also talk about this extremely important report that you have received. It contains 110 pages of very extensive material plus over 1,500 pages of contributions including all stenograms of testimony. During two years of her work, the Commission held 35 sessions, heard 34 witnesses from the judiciary, i.e. the holder of judicial functions, academic workers, media representatives, civil society representatives, etc. The investigation committee is holding all its sessions with full openness to the public. In the meetings of the Commission of Investigation, a number of media representatives and media interest in the work of the Investigative Commission were usually present at an extremely enviable level. The Commission has also established an extremely good and close co-operation with the International Community, with representatives of several embassies, and in particular with an institution that is particularly authorised to oversee the work of the judiciary. Not only in BiH, but also in other countries, or the OSCE, but also with a European Commission delegation, especially when it comes to the situation in the judiciary when it comes to the European path of BiH. However, despite this very close and good co-operation with the International Community, what I am particularly proud of when it comes to the work of this Investigation Commission, that it was purely domestic work and that what you have ahead of you is a whole domestic product. Co-operation with the International Community was at the level, at the advisory level, of course, at the level of support including support for the overall concept of parliamentary supervision. We all know that the Law on Parliamentary Oversight adopted in this Parliament in the last term had great support from the European Union because it is one of the things that is necessary on the way of each country to membership in the European family. Over a hundred decisions were taken unanimously by the Commission, and only four times we had abstentions which in each of the four situations concerned technical issues, not any fundamental considerations. What is worrying about in the report is that the Investigation Commission has established a huge strain between politics and justice, found that the carriers, the highest legal holders are not immune to political control and political influence, but we are also satisfied with witness statements and our research we are also satisfied that the vast majority of people in the judicial sector are extremely fair, doing their job well and remain out of political control. However, we are concerned that the witnesses were almost agreed in the assessment that if you want to advance in the judicial sector, if you want to work especially on certain particularly important functions in the judiciary including the VSTV but also the State Court and the Prosecutor's Office, it is almost necessary to have some kind of political, or some kind of relationship with powerful people in politics. For all of this and for the fact that this debate is truly unreasonablely limited to some points, I will look back at the recommendations made by the Commission, please just tolerate me maybe a few, at most one minute to get over time. So, what we have recommended is the Veting of all VSTV members, the President of the Courts and the Chief Prosecutors, i.e. Deputy Chief Prosecutors, by modeling the model that was done in Albania, by making Albania do so for all its judicial employees, we propose that for the judicial executives, it is less than 100 people throughout BiH. Vetting, as an example of Albania, when it comes to being true, refers to the truthfulness of all data in property records, determining whether there is any relation to addiction, the mutual benefit of the exchange of services or other circumstances that indicate links with politics, as well as links to organised crime. Introduce legal holders and their close relatives to the Institute of Dispute of Conflict of Interest by modelling elected and appointed officials and advisers in these institutions in the sense that a close relative of a judicial function cannot be 43 appointed to a political function or membership in a commercial enterprise that is 100 % owned by a level of government, or private which operates with any level of government at a certain annual level. Also, significantly improve the criteria for the appointment of judicial functions, but also strengthen the role of the disciplinary prosecutor. What we specifically call on is that the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office until these legal changes are adopted which we have recommended aggressively affect all issues, that is to say, all the examples that we have raised here. It is also necessary to reform significantly the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, which we have found to be completely inadequate and there is also a political connection, and it is also necessary for the judiciary to significantly improve co-operation with the media both in terms of facilitating access to the media to trials and data giving, and in terms of media knowledge. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11895	Thank you. Mr. Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11896	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am one of eight, whether or not, members of the Commission, a representative from this Parliament and I want to remind you that we have had terrible obstructions from our colleagues in Parliament in the formation and appointment of this Commission. I must point out, thanks to the insistence of the President of the Commission, Mr Arnaut, and we succeeded, most thanks to his tenacity. And I have to make my own impression, I'm convinced that this is one of, not to say the only light of the point of this calls Parliament. This is something completely new in BiH's political life. We had talks with several ambassadors, with US congressmen and the fact that some EU countries that have a far greater democratic path than BiH do not have this Commission. Let's say in the United States it's a long time ago, is it, there's this Commission. I'm looking forward to a few things, first of all, that it was a multiethnic composition, that it was from both entities of the members of the Commission, from several cantons and that we never came to vote, in a situation of national interest. We had a chance to listen to the tall ones, people who behave highly judicially, yes, functions and they're from two entities, but they have exactly the same problems. I felt nothing different from the judges and prosecutors who came from Republika Srpska compared to those who came from the Federation. The key problems, said Mr Arnaut, and I am one of those who, this one, most insistent on it, is that it is a strong political influence on BiH's judicial institutions. The judiciary is actually, we've learned it there, it solves small small problems, and it's always in the focus of an ordinary little man and it's very fast to get rid of it. Big problems, big political fish, so to speak, remain out of justice and law. We've suggested some solutions, and we've also had great people, uh, great discussions there, exhibitions. I'll just say one thing, that we were all impressed by the chief prosecutor of the Brcko District who discovered an election theft there for one election, and it led to quite an end, he prosecuted and used his influence to even exert pressure. The judges began to get a little out of it, and, uh, they wanted it to be a conditional punishment and thanks to its tenacity, its work, what everyone should probably do in BiH, these people are sentenced to prison sentences. The same happens in other parts of our country, but they're completely different arches. We had a hearing, so, the key people in the judiciary, and I think thanks to the work of this Commission and with the help of the representatives of the International Community, the resignations have been filed, and perhaps two key, with two key positions of the people in the judiciary, and this is Mr. Tegeltija, whom we all knew had connections with certain politicians, and which turned out to be true when he left that position, he went to the advisor of the presidency member, Mr. Milorad Dodik. Also, the chief prosecutor, Mrs Tadić, resigned because she did not, Damir seems to me we have established there, have not been used, has not used the CMS system provided in the law to avoid selecting which prosecutor and which judge should receive a certain case and under public pressure, of course, the media and members of the Commission she resigned. Of course, I'm kind of impressed by the current V.D. The chief prosecutor of the BiH state, Mr. Kajganić, of course, and Mr. Lagumdžija, president of the VSTV, we heard him and he gave me some, he gave me some hope, but somehow.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11897	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11898	One minute, in further work, I think it's kind of coming down, yeah. What I want to point out is that we are most focused on the top of the judiciary, but terrible things happen at lower levels, in municipal courts, cantonal courts, there is crime, corruption, nepotism. It's all kind of far from the eyes of the public. We've made a report, we've offered, we're going to offer Parliament, we've offered the public, and I hope that in the judiciary they need to start better days after this. And my proposal and ours is to make this a permanent working body, not to be an ad hoc commission, because anyone in this country or in any country, if it's unsupervised, it's not good for the citizens of that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11899	Wrong quote, Mr. Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11900	Chairman. I apologize for using this form of correction of the wrong allegation as I would like to use the members of the Committee on Finance of this House to know that we have received material... in 2 and 15 we should have a session of the Committee, that we're going to implement it, I suggest that we extend it until the moment we chaired to pause at this session, because if we leave here now, the quorum would be gone, so that's information for those members of the Committee who are here and those who are not, and here they are, and here are the chairman, I apologize, here, for this non-business remark but please make sure that we have to hold that session in the apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11901	I'm taking care of it, Mr. Kožul, and you've got the wrong quote around this agenda point. The word is Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11902	Congratulations to the chairman and to the members of the Commission on the work that has been done, the report shows what they have done specifically, and the message that has been sent to the public and all the processes 45 that have gone a little difficult at this point are measurable, and I also don't think they are insignificant. If I had the chance to say only one thing that needs to be changed in the BiH state, it would just be judicial reform. I believe the key problem, and the solution to the problem lives in the same address, in the same building. It is a building where the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH are located. The moment this institution, and then the verticals on the lower, becomes independent and capacitated to deal with those who today are pulling the strings from behind and politically affecting the work of judicial institutions in all other areas, we will see significant progress. The judiciary, with honor and admiration for individuals, is under political control. Politics determines, unfortunately, who will be processed for what and who will not be processed. And for this reason, I believe that the importance of this Commission as far as it seems to have not changed, I believe that the very important processes have been launched and therefore this Commission and its work are very important. The transition route of every country ended up so in our environment that large political fish ended up where they belong, in prison. Our large political fish understand that this will happen with us and therefore invest their maximum in the fight for status quo that nothing in this country will change because the status quo for them means political survival and survival on the loose. That's why, no matter what the public looks like, we only share two groups, one that fights for the status quo, that nothing changes, and those who want to change. A serious change will happen when our judiciary becomes capacitated and strong enough to deal with those who control it today and that's the name of the game in this country. Everything else is the consequences that we live every day. I do not wish to cite cases today that symbolize the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, because we had the opportunity to speak in the House of Representatives and about the Memić case and the Dragičević case, in the presence of the highest leaders of the judicial institutions who showed themselves today, were unworthy of these functions, because if they were worthy here and today, they would not be replaced. To conclude, political control of the judiciary is the cancer of the early Bosnian Herzegovina society. In this country, things will move forward once the judiciary starts to process those who control it today. I therefore congratulate once again on the work done and argue that the results of this Commission's work will only be seen in the future because the more significant processes they have launched are more important than perhaps what is written on paper.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11903	Thank you. Mrs. Marinković-Lepić-Lepic has her five minutes. After that, a two-commission break will take place within the next hour. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11904	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I would like to say that we have come to the final result and that, from the very beginning, there has been a group of MPs who have paid extraordinary attention to the judiciary as one area that is indeed marked, I think I must use this formulation because it is so often used in public, as the cancer of this society's wounds. So that group of MPs, even at the time of Parliament's blockage of a year, since the time of the constitution, has demanded emergency sessions, imposed this issue and one of the sessions was held on the judiciary. Here, we have come to the end of my work and I can say that I am really proud to be a member of this Commission and that we have come a difficult way, here colleagues have said, since the dispute, but then welcomed and experienced that the members of the judicial community themselves volunteered and wanted to talk to us, or to make statements to the Commission. I would also point out that we've been working, whether, absolutely free of charge, not to be here, I'm saying this for the public, no 46 dilemmas, that we've spent budgets on our work. What's particularly interesting to me by some kind of own vocality, here, is the position of journalists because also one group of MPs here actually takes care of the position of journalists and has even had some initiatives about it, so here we are today. I would say, here, just more precisely, that the media, therefore, are in a very one unfavourable position when it comes to monitoring the trial, that there is intransparentity when it comes to the work of the prosecution because it is not only enough that it is felt – the investigation is in progress, is that, let's say, they can't catch notes, but they can't wear tape, so it's possible, and that they write something wrong or not arrive, and this particular problem is that the unauthorized recording that is being misused in our country is because it can't be considered unauthorized by recording something that's being recorded in a public place, especially if it's the basis for certain illegal actions, and we've witnessed journalists calling for statements, not binoculars of these shops, and even in the case of Tegeltia. Also, what is also, here, was some subject of my interest and where I also made my contribution when it comes to the report itself is precisely the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor because we believe that this Office should be strengthened, separated from, physically, and what we have witnessed, is whether, when it comes to Milan Tegeltija, the composition of the disciplinary commission that decided on it was from the order of the VSTV members, which is completely inappropriate and, we have seen further what the outcome was, that it was quite an inappropriate decision to reject a disciplinary application because, for God, he is not a representative of the judicial community although, as a judge, it was actually in VSTV. And our recommendations are intended, therefore, to establish a special mechanism for deciding on disciplinary violations of the members of the VSTV, which we consider very important. So this system and mode of work could indeed be an example, therefore, for the future, because we believe that, in the most appropriate way, we have used this parliamentary oversight institute in the most transparent way, which I hope will be used in the future when it comes to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11905	Thank you. The Finance and Budget Commission is about to begin, at 15 o'clock, the Administrative Commission, a break of up to 15 and 15. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate. There's a quorum. Both commissions have done their job. Point 18 is on the agenda – Report on the work of the Interim Research Commission of the Representative's House to determine the situation in BiH's judicial institutions. Four participants reported in the debate have another word. There's a Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11907	Thank you, Chairman. Somehow, I would like to share my personal impression with you from the start of my mandate in this House. It is the session when the chief state prosecutor, Gordana Tadić, came to the House of Representatives' meeting. And when she threatened the MPs from the pay phone and somehow I felt like someone who wasn't invited to wonder if the judiciary in BiH was independent, whether it was impartial, whether it was effective to do its job. And I'm very glad that someone as a member of 47 positions along with Professor Begić of the Democratic Front was part of this commission and that I could hear the testimony of people directly from the judiciary. Because what's contained in this Commission report, this is an inside picture, what people in the judiciary think of the system they're working on, where they earn money and fight crime, fight corruption, fight all forms of illegality in BiH. And that's when I saw that people in the judiciary have the wrong perception that they can't control the judiciary because there's a system of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial power, but there's also respect for the principles of verification and balance, that's the principle of balance check. This exists in all democratic states, that one government controls the other and that there is a balance between a certain pillar of power. So that the judiciary cannot be above the legislative authority, the legislative authority cannot be above the judiciary except in the law-making segment, but there must be a system of verification and my existing system of balance and I was glad to hear all these testimony from people who are directly holders of judicial functions. And believe that nothing from outside that would come would be as authentic as what they say, because there is a perception in the public that our judiciary is not independent and that it is not impartial, from the testimony of the people of the judiciary, it has proved true. In order for the judiciary to be independent and impartial, it must be separate from these two branches of government, it must be independent, it must be a separate process of appointment, and we have arranged all of this in our laws, but there must also be internal independence of the holders of judicial functions, which is primarily seen in the moral credibility of the one who performs that function, the awareness of the importance of the work he performs, and of the professional knowledge of every judge and prosecutor. Believe that the professional knowledge of each judge and prosecutor is not at the same level, many of them are said in the Report, which are honorable, who are honest, but there are those who do not know the BiH regulations well, have those who are not aware of the importance of the function they perform. Believe me, judgments used to be made in this land in the name of the people. Every verdict was written in the name of the people. The judiciary should work on behalf of the citizens of this country. So, they're the top that should be sanctioned on behalf of the people, but I don't think many of them are aware of the importance of their function. I would say that if we were in a position or opposition, we all have to be aware that without an independent and impartial judiciary this country will not be effective or functional and will not be safe, and I think we all need to be in the interest of an independent and impartial judiciary, and what we presented in our report is believe the real picture of people coming from that mile, mostly from that mile. There are also witnesses of journalists, representatives of civil society, but most of all those who are bold and who have had the courage to say what is not good in that system. I don't think there's much to be done about judicial reform because the overall constitutional and legislative framework is good, but somehow it has to be increased awareness of the importance of the function being carried out, of the importance of what each of these judicial, judicial function holders is doing for their country by doing the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11908	Thank you. The word has Branislav Borenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11909	Thank you. Well, here's what I'm going to agree with my colleagues that this is one of the few, but, here's a successful example that when something's going to be done, it can and can be done the way the Interim Investigation Commission has done these two, just over two years in this term. In the sea of difficult topics, 48 political conflicts, different opinions, many negative things, I think that, at the end of this term, it has been shown that through the report done by eight MPs from this House of Representatives, the least important thing is which political party they belong to shows that it is possible to obtain a document in which a judicial precedent is made in some way. The real situation has been established, numerous problems, but there has also been a proposal for very concrete measures and recommendations on how and how to improve BiH's judiciary. It is very important to note that we have done so with full respect for the constitutional but also parliamentary framework in this country, which means that the constitutional framework is broad enough that we can do it uninterruptedly and make certain decisions contained in this report as well. The colleagues said that the same important decision was in the work of this Interim Investigation Commission, transparency in work. I think that it has kept us as members of this Commission that this maximum transparency in work actually shows that there is nothing hidden in this country and that especially when talking about justice everything should be available to citizens through, of course, the media and the public. As I said, we have seen, identified and confirmed the many problems that exist in the BiH judicial system, proposed very concrete measures not because it is a document that has over 100 pages of contributions, I don't know, 1,200, 1,300 pages. We held 35 sessions, listened, I wouldn't say heard, I prefer to use the word we talked to 34 people who, both from the judicial system and from the media and people who were interested in helping us to get to the best possible report and a document that could be an excellent basis for the next period in line with the recommendations that have been made, and there are 15, to fix the situation in this country's justice. What is also important, that we are, at least I have had the opportunity to see that there are many good and high-quality people, that the most important thing is to establish a system that will in a very valid way recognise what the best judiciary has and the bravest, and the most determined and capable, and the most professional and prosecutors and judges and somehow get them out of that internal system and give them a chance to do their job in the highest judicial positions, because that is what sort of weighs all of us in this country. A sense of injustice, the feeling that an adequate epilogue can not be reached in the judicial system, and that something needs to be done in a specific layer. A good atmosphere, a kind of trust created for these more than two years, shows that many challenges in this country can be overcome if there is good will between us. And so this, in my opinion, is a positive, successful example, which is why I have reported the most, to say that we have had some kind of mutual trust between us and shown that we can overcome some of the political differences that will remain present in the next period, but that we have many more political similarities when it comes to social benefit, here, and on the judicial system and what may be, in my opinion, the most important thing that I do not doubt that the report will be supported and should be supported by the House of Representatives in its full form, but it shows that we are adequately not using this mechanism of parliamentary supervision which is politically available to us that this Institute of Research Commissions needs as much as possible because they have their own sense and the indicator is exactly the result of the Reports that has been done by the Interim Investigation Commission. And lastly, to me, one of the most significant recommendations if you allow only twenty seconds, aside from these 15 most significant ones, is that we have seen in the conversation with people who come and out of the judiciary that it would be good to have that subsidiary prosecutor's institute back in our judicial system that was present before this last reform that Bog did not know what effect and that it would be possible for the final and damaged party to be able to seek justice before the courts in some case if certain actions were to be missed when it comes, what is most important for everyone in this country, which is, in some cases, full justice. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11910	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kojović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11911	I thank the chairman. Very briefly, I probably won't say anything new but I'd like to point out some of the things that I think are important here. This is a revolutionary thing, this is the greatest achievement of this Parliament I believe in this mandate and we have introduced one practice, parliamentary oversight of all systems as it is done in developed democracies. I honestly tell you that I am most impressed not only with the professionalism and studioism with which the members of this Commission have approached these problems, but with one fact that I would like to get more light in public space than they are, I think they will. The Commission was made up of people from several political parties, the Commission was made up of people coming from parties coming from both bh. oneness, both from Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. The Commission has dealt with this problem with the desire to finally get a judicial system that could be a step towards what we call the rule of law and the Commission has adopted this 110-page report and a lot of words on each side, a consensus and that is, it has shown, this Commission, not only a fantastic analysis of our judicial system, but also certain measures and a recipe for its improvement, but it has also shown that this country can go forward if serious problems are real problems with this society dealing with people who are responsible, and responsible for themselves, to their environment from which they come and then towards BiH. I really want to thank, especially President Damir who was the initiator of this but without the people who were in this Commission, everyone, every single one of them really deserves this one, as I would say, recognition for the fantastic work they've done and I really congratulate them from their heart.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11912	Thank you. Mr. jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11913	I thank the chairman. I wasn't a member of this Interim Investigation Commission, but I'm happy to support the appointment of this Interim Investigation Commission because I think they did a great job and I would agree with my colleague Predrag. Here, I wrote here to point out as the most useful thing that happened to us in this term, then I crossed over so I wouldn't be too subjective or emotional, so I wrote a very useful thing that happened to us in this term. Obviously, we've all made a good assessment of this report and it's actually a very systematic and analytical document, very large, detailed, and most importantly a reliable source, reliable building, and I think it's the quality of this report. Of course, not to forget to thank the President of the Investigation Commission and all the members of the Continuity, Perseverance and Finally, for justifying the purpose and purpose of the appointment of this Interim Investigation Commission. I think this is the way that it shows that we can have a home product because we're self-organizing for this activity. These members were not forced by anyone, so to speak, under quotes, but they concluded that they needed to make their contribution in order to cut the current state of justice and the entire justice system. And these 15 measures need to be made alive, so we don't forget them, 50 so they don't stay as recommendations. Is that in this last chapter, the future of parliamentary oversight is proposed by the Interim Investigation Commission to form a judicial reform committee in the future, but I was thinking that it might be effective to appoint an inter-resor working group that will make an action plan for the implementation of these 15 priorities for the judiciary, because when it looks at the content of this document, as it is all guided, I think this is an answer and a pathway pathway to improving the judiciary and justice system in BiH. I would therefore suggest one conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Council of Ministers to propose within 30 days a decision on the appointment of an interresor working group to draw up an action plan to implement 15 recommendations from Chapter 4 of the proposed reform of the Interim Investigation Commission's work on determining the situation in the judiciary in BiH's judicial institutions, under the number of teams and teams, since 08.06.2022. I understand that it is the end of the term of office, but I still think it would be useful to keep the link between the future summons of the House of Representatives and this good job, this report that will certainly be the real foundation and a good source for conducting reforms and overseeing judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11914	Thank you. Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11915	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start my discussion similar to what I discussed when there was an emergency session where he tried to talk about the judiciary. Namely, I will read to you a few conclusions adopted on 13 April 2011 on a similar issue when the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, when my colleague Brenović and I participated as MPs at the time, found that BiH's judicial reform was led on the wrong footing and did not produce adequate results. So this is your 11th straight conclusion, is it? Next, let's say a similar conclusion that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska requests that the VSTS Act be amended and that it be brought into line with the constitutional order of BiH, and that each level of government has a VSTS for the judiciary at that level, etc., I would not like to read to you, there are a lot of these conclusions. What I'm saying is, if unfortunately the political groups here are aware of the problem, they're waking up, I'd dare say, on some temporary basis. So, when it was necessary, here, to say about this supernadious legal system, excuse me, the judicial system that was created by imposing, means that it was counter-constitutional by imposing the Law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office on the grounds that are not in the Constitution of BiH, and when you want to blame all that failure, I don't know one, two, three people, then some become conscious and the need for my Bog to do it. As I claimed at that time, that on an unfair basis, it is difficult to expect justice, I want to draw attention to the fact that as much as you have tried these two years, however, this Commission was founded past the Rules of Procedure and its work, this has to be noted because it has to be distracted, it is seriously compromised, that you have two of our colleagues, one of whom is sentenced to one prison sentence, and then almost that sentence has been changed to this parole, and another of our colleagues, also a member of your Commission who questioned the judiciary is in serious charges of direct ties with the drug mob. So much for how anyone sees approaches to solving such a serious topic. What we advocate and think is that this is the judiciary and should continue the talks on the basis of that structural dialogue that was stopped in 2015 and it was also stopped probably on the key of those who are working on the key. So 51 giving up talking about exactly these topics of Federation institutions. We think this is a subject recently, so 11 years ago it was alarming, but I would agree here, for example, with an interesting sentence, when colleague Magazinović says, politics here determines what will be processed and for what, and what will not. So what am I having a relationship with? Interestingly, for these 35 sessions you've had over two years, no one asks how it is possible for this judiciary to selectively apply material regulations all these years, above all, the Criminal Law? How is it possible that there is still a retroactive application of rights even though it is, you know, all better than me, it is contrary to the European Court of Human Rights' ruling in certain cases? How is it possible that certain war crimes processes to this extent are pushed deep into drawers, and one of them I'll read to you if it allows me time, how is it possible to take arbitrary objects from one prosecution to another, so they're coming back, so... until the process slows down to the point that it becomes pointless? So, how is it possible that none of you are asking with the resolution and slowness of the realisation of a state strategy to address war crimes issues? Now, since I'm 20 seconds away, I'll tell you why and how it's possible on a constructive example. Unfortunately, it is a terrible war crime when in the wider area of Trnov, specifically in the village of Ledici, they were found, killed in an event in '92. 24 of them were 15 women, and the oldest victim was 92, and the youngest 18 months, of course, were victims of Serbian nationality. Watch the epilogue, crime, then brought up by the special war crimes department prosecutor in 2014 in order to make it happen that the hearing was next in November 2016, which was delayed again, scheduled for December 2016, cancelled without an explanation. Gentlemen, I don't know how you've been past such a big moment and such a terrible inaction. I respect the will, expressed good will of certain MPs, but the problem is much broader, much deeper than what you want to show us. I'm not saying that you haven't made a good point, but again, it's a much wider, more complex story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11916	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Branislav Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11917	All right, I thank distinguished colleague Novaković, she has just said for dozens of reasons why this Interim Investigation Commission should have been formed perhaps sooner. I'm sorry it wasn't formed five or ten years ago, and you're absolutely right about the alarming state in this country's justice system. But it doesn't give us the right to remain silent and not to work, not to do. That is why this Interim Investigation Commission was formed and I am sorry that you are not a member of this Commission because as far as I can see, and it is good that you did not notice any of the problems in the report, I have a feeling that you are completely in agreement with the report because I see that you do not have any objections to the report itself and you have talked about what you were talking about. Exactly our goal is to raise the level of efficiency of the judiciary to the highest level, to be fairer, to be a system in which laws will apply equally to all and in which justice will be available to every man in this country, and that is the essence of our work. And on the other hand, there may be some contradictory words in something you've been saying, I know that you have the need to justify your position not to participate in this investigation committee, and I repeat once again, it is very important that you haven't found any objection in what we have proposed to the House of Representatives, which shows that we have done one very important, correct, good, hopefully ultimately and effective job and I invite 52 of you to participate together in the implementation of all these recommendations that have been made by the Prime Investigation Commission in this period that is behind us.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11918	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11919	Correction of the wrong quote is right in the part where Mr. Borenović says I think this is the right way. I just don't think this is the right way, and I made that clear, and I said that I think it's the way, that it's at the level of three ministries and this Justice Commission of the Brcko District. Serious analysis and serious approach by experts, not commissions compromised the way I told you. And when we exclude this lawyer who's involved in the drug mafia, Mr. Borenović remains the two economists from Republika Srpska who are planning to deal with the judiciary. Secondly, I don't think this is the way it should be discussed in this format, because there is a persistent tendency here to make Parliament a single assembly and I think even if the Parliamentary Assembly grows up one day to discuss this problem, a commission like this must be composed of members of both homes in order to actually have some sort of result. And the second thing I haven't said at all is I don't want to discuss content at all for two reasons. The first thing that a lot of these observations are based on what's wrong, on the feeling. This kind of thing is not about feeling, about personal perception that there is a group of "less corrupt", or some "more corrupt", etc., and then we came... so I wouldn't want to talk about the content of the report, or think we should talk, at least I don't want to. However, I want to warn you this, interesting thing is that you also didn't look back on, if you really wanted to be professional and competent in assessing that a lot of these people who, again, are not saying whether they were right or wrong because I don't think I'm an investigator, we're MPs here, we're not investigators or we're judges, but there are serious possibilities that, that it was and, if that's how you all wrote there, complicity or concealing criminal acts. So, you get people in there and you show them, and you show them right, but then let's move on, is that complicity? If you've been watching a crime all these years, is it the cover-up of a crime if you look at it every day and do nothing? So what I'm saying is, it's a much wider, more complex problem than you're trying to show yourself in this report, and also in these discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11920	Wrong quote, Branislav Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11921	I really don't know what you're trying to say. So who bothers the ministries to work and cooperate? Who's bothering to do what you're talking about? It's 2022, do you want us to live forever in dishappiness, in inaction? So will you remember, here, now that Mrs Ešton was and when the structural dialogue was announced, it was 11 years, 12 years, nothing was done. So do something, nobody bothers. So what's the role of MPs, then it's all pointless. If we're not going to do our job, why are we getting paid, why are we sitting in this House? Is the key principle and role of this Parament not working, is that what you're promoting? Why is the disturbance that, in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the rules and the democratic, of course, the principles of Parliament set out eight MPs in the Interim Investigation Commission to deal with the issue of justice which worked for two 53 years, held 35 sessions, for dozens and tens of hours of talks with people coming from the judiciary, came with a particular document that has its own quality, which has some value. I can agree with you that maybe it's a frustration that you weren't part of that Komsija, but I'm sorry that you weren't, because we can't keep listening to any more excuses for failure and trouble. You're telling us again why you worked when they have three ministries? So, not doing those ministries, which is the problem that the minister, especially if they come from the same political parties, makes it even easier for them to work. They've been doing nothing for years, decades, and now it's somebody who did something. Bog, I really don't know what to say anymore. The biggest guilt and the greatest punishment is... do it in this country, even if it's the worst, if it's positive.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11922	Wrong quote, sir, about the change, Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11923	Again, Mr. Borenović, I did not say that you should not work, but I still argue that when something is done on the wrong basis, when it is not done in a professional way, when you compromise the composition, that you cannot expect a good result. And the executioner is so problematic, and we all need it to function daily that I don't know what else to tell you except that I expected you to send my discussion into part of this that you used 35 sessions of clocks without anyone asking about that part of the war crimes. I thought I missed reading, so that you would stand up to me and say, "Here, colleague Novaković, I just asked just as I did back then, after reading the stenogram the other day, in the 2011 session, you asked us all the question – what happened to the processing of war crimes against the population around the Sansko Most where you came from? So, I thought I missed it. So, uh, let me say once again, as far as we from SNSD are concerned, attitudes are the same for years, and the fact that someone changes their attitudes about how someone presses a key, that's his problem. So, the judiciary was created by illegal means, not based on the Constitution, and it was hard to expect, and now we have evidence, that it will produce the social and social outcome that all the limited societies need. What would we do with it now? We are still thinking and ready to engage in the capacity of the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska and legal experts to engage in the conversation but in a comprehensive way. And once again to say that what is trying, too, and through the VSTS report, to locate also confirms our political position that no partial amendments to the VSTS Act will solve the problem. This needs a comprehensive approach and a completely, completely new legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11924	Mr. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11925	Thank you, Chairman. I am obliged to say as chairman of this Commission of Investigation that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives are saying that MPs are telling the truth, and it is absolutely untrue that this Komsija was founded by the Rules of Procedure. It was established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House and with the Law on Parliamentary Oversight. And the other thing, here's Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, has been telling the truth for the second time that no one has ever asked about war crimes. So look at the composition of the part of this report is 1500 and some pages of the stenogram. On that, I suppose Mr. Helez came forward about it, Helez and Borenović most potentiated the issue of war crimes. Mirjana 54 Marinković-Lepić-Lepic was most concerned with the media, I was most concerned with CMS, conflict of interest and UDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11926	Easy, easy. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11927	Therefore, this is simply not true and is obliged to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11928	Mr. Borenović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure but please stick to what you are talking about, not to report for a hearing under the framework of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. What member was injured?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11929	I only appeal to Mrs. Novaković to read the report and the stenograms. Not much, 1,500 pages, can be done in ten days.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11930	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11931	Here, I'll take the turn, so I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the mention of expertise by Mrs Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, I think it is the greatest, one of the greatest qualities of this report, which, as counterpart Arnaut said, is the first thing, a domestic product, but springed from insiders' statements, means from a statement by members of the judicial community what it is that should change in the legislation and in what way. So there are no larger experts who should be talking about justice, but from judges and prosecutors at very high levels, so, uh, judicial and prosecutorial functions when it comes to the judiciary. So I don't see who's supposed to be more professional here. When it comes to mentioning these ministries, here we wanted to include one of the ministers, so the only man who refused to testify is Mr. Grubeša, the minister of justice of BiH. Mrs. Novaković mentioned a 2011 report, so be careful today is 2022, that nothing was done as Mr. Borenović said, whether we should have sat down and waited for someone to finally have mercy to do something. Also, this report does not mean that to this extent it is detailed that there is no room for some activities and work anymore. Of course, we made recommendations based on what the people we called for. This does not mean that, in addition to these recommendations, of course, they cannot expand their activities to make new laws. So that, among other things, is the correcting of the wrong assumption. And when it comes to war crimes, well, Mrs. Tadić said she didn't use the CMS system because Bog's not judges equally, these prosecutors are equally professional, equally experienced, so you know she shared herself with whom the case would go, and among other things, the subject of war crimes, so here's the result of the Commission is that she's no longer in that position. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11932	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11933	The Honorable Chairman. I know exactly what hits Mrs. Bursać the most. So, my colleagues know that I most insist on getting into the heart of Pandora's case. He is also called Pandora because key political actors were involved in the affair, and the key to key is Mr. Milorad Dodik, head of the party of the representative. She knows, and here I am telling you, all his houses, all his villas, everything he couldn't have was his uncle or his father Soroš...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11934	Wrong quote, Mr. Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11935	It'll have to be processed sometime. And I say responsibly, when he comes to answer for all the misdeeds and constitutional order of the BiH state and all its blows, and for what he stole and it hurts you, and we need one there...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11936	Mr. Helez, you've been given your word for the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11937	You're right, just that when they tell us there judges and prosecutors...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11938	You got your word on the wrong assumption. Mrs Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11939	I would refer to what Mrs Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać said when it comes to the expertise of the Commission that collected this information and made up this Report. Well, eight of us are a doctor of legal science, so I don't think I should be suspicious of the expertise of the Commission, and this reminds me of being a lawyer when he's defending a criminal, he's hitting on the credibility of a court witch, so the expert says he's dealing with some illegalities there so he's no good at witching this case. So and then, mentions two members of our commission who are allegedly accused or convicted, they are parliamentarians and while sitting here with us they have worked fully with us in that commission. When it comes to specific war crimes cases, we were not allowed to engage in any particular subject because it would be a direct influence on the work of the judiciary, and in general, when it comes to the processing of war crimes and war crimes strategies and we had a meeting with Prosecutor Bramerica, we had a lot of testimony in interviews about it, so that concrete things shouldn't have been the subject of our work. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11940	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11941	I'm correcting something that is, or I'm reacting to something that Mr. Arnaut has spoken to the Honorable Chairman. Therefore, it is not true that the Committee has been appointed by the Rules of Procedure because it is not multiethnic, therefore, there are no deputies from the order of the third constituent people, therefore the Rules of Procedure are not respected, therefore that is not true. The second thing, I'm not sure, or I'm almost sure the Law on Parliamentary Oversight doesn't allow this kind of work by this Committee, I'm sure. That he allows us to work on the supervision of our other bodies, but in the work of the judiciary this Law on Parliamentary Control does not allow for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11942	The word is Mrs. Nada Mladina, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11943	Honorable MPs and MPs. I, although many representatives or non-members of this Commission have spoken, cannot in any way be silent and not show my respect for their work and what they have done. First, we too know how many citizens who have chosen us have lost confidence in the judiciary, how much after Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic has proposed to hold a thematic session on the subject of the judiciary, how many problems at that session were not presented, but also proposals that are a good basis for judicial reform. I want to express, therefore, respect, I want to thank all the members of this Interim Investigation Commission, that at least longer her mandate was and that she was not temporary, so that she can continue working after such a quality report, which is made up of everything they've come up with at so many sessions. So they worked hard. The chairman, Damir Arnaut, also a special confession because we've been convinced here, and many of that, I apologize for the expression, seems to be annoying that he is persistent. What the esteemed representative Alma Čolo said, that in the judiciary, both judges and prosecutors, and all those who work there, they begin their decisions on behalf of the people. There are nations to return to the judiciary and be independent, quality, professional, and to put people's trust in that judiciary. This report is a good basis for a reform that needs to be implemented and I support the full conclusion that Mr Emrić gave about it, and I want to say, so my opinion because I can't keep my mouth shut, not because anyone has caused me, we all have the right to differing opinions, but my opinion is like this. I think that this Parliament has done a good job of naming this Commission and this Commission that has done this dedicated work and we have not talked about any report this much, and we are talking about because we have a lot of basics and a lot of reasons not to forget this, but to continue on this basis, to start finally the right of judicial reform in BiH, as a reform is probably needed in many areas. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11944	Thank you. 57 Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11945	Thank you. So, through today's discussion of a part of my colleagues and colleagues, today's, therefore, the whole session of Parliament, but not just today's, but also some last session and last topic, unfortunately I've gotten the impression that it's best to say the same and think the same. As soon as you say something that unfortunately the new parliamentary majority doesn't like, then you're being exposed in a variety of ways and not to say disabling to the unconscious. As far as I know, then, that this report was late first, that it should have been delivered before, but there it was delivered. And right at the beginning to say that I am one of those who, in the last term, have, well, these two mandates here, that every topic, and it seems to me that in one such discussion Mr Kojović supported me, everything is for Parliament, everything is for Parliament and everything Parliament has the right to talk about, and I agree, and everything needs to be searched. However, to do so, we need to create legal assumptions that were not in this case. I of all this, therefore, support that we need to be able to discuss everything and make decisions, I agree at the beginning, I've always said that, and I'll always advocate it, but of course we have to make assumptions about what I said. So here's an unusual report ahead of us, I have as much experience as I have here in Parliament's work and I haven't seen reports like this. Mostly they're the type, the number of sessions, the presence, the possible conclusions, something. This is a good seminar work where someone might master or doctor from this Commission where they propose it to some scientific institution, and so most of the commendable things about this were said by those who worked in this Committee, one part of course did, but most of them commended their work, so what else, if they had nothing else to say but that. The second thing, so I did read it, I'm not going to talk about it like Mrs. Novaković said because I don't think this is how it was meant to work and to create assumptions for him. For example, you have the report that made the opinion of the VSTV, which refused to cooperate and make an official decision about it in 2019, in order to change that decision itself, in order to change it after the US Embassy intervened, imagine, ok, that is, whether or not. The second thing, in this report, was, therefore, unusually, they brought different visions, descriptive, content of it, conformism and, indeed, this, uh, picturesque report in which they were extracting from these witnesses, as they call them, about this later, some of the expressions they said, but not what I am about to read from Mr. Perić. He says Mr. Perić like this, and they didn't put it in the Report, and there in other places they quote it – unfortunately we've been going the wrong way since the beginning, we've left the judiciary to strangers. They created reform, the objectives of reform, came with projects that were not even agreed on. Hundreds and hundreds of projects were implemented aimed at reforming the judiciary. I am responsible for telling you that most of them were completely useless to the judiciary. You've got a lot of stuff out there, so, donors coming in, bringing some ideas, their themes, and what have they done? They took valuable time for the people of the judiciary instead of creating reforms themselves, establishing priorities and notifying you what the priorities of the judiciary are so that you can react to the new legislation. Unfortunately, it took a second, so long that we've lost so much time and today we've come into a situation that the judiciary is almost gone. This sounds very black and apocalyptic, but I'm openly telling you that the judiciary is in such a crisis that I don't know how it's going to get out of this crisis. Now beware, therefore, of the process which has lasted, so you call all the people whom you have called witness. First of all, you've made your own program and you've invited them to your own wishes, there's no such thing as a notebook, there's no lawyer, there's no justice departments with multiple levels, so 58 is all justice. None of that is there, nor is it what you say. The other thing, then, were your witnesses, as you called them, swearing to tell the truth and only the truth that Arnaut is asking us today? Did the witnesses tell you the truth rather than those you chose by which logic you know it, therefore, and have established your findings on their testimony, so are your witnesses protected, are they, this one, familiar with their rights, swearing to speak the truth? This is all similar to one solid trial, so what are you, what are you, then? A very unusual report, very interesting, therefore, never, ever, for the first time, and now I am going back to the beginning, I am only pleased that the practice has been introduced that indeed Parliament must discuss everything and need it. And I agree, I'm not against it, and for that kind of thing, I repeat, we need to create assumptions about laws that regulate issues in the field of justice. All the suggestions you've made, 80% of them have been proposed before... Novaković said, you have them through various reports that have been submitted, all of them were proposed about the proposals that you have made, you have done nothing revolutionary as you say it to yourself and like to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11946	Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11947	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, very briefly to Mr. Lovrinović, page 36. Reports by the Commission of Investigation, a comprehensive quote by Mr. Perić, saying there were too many foreign products in judicial reform and how he welcomes this because this is a domestic product. I'll quote it – so we have to show what we want, that we know and that we can do it, and that's what you're talking to us, to the members of the Investigation Commission, you have the dry facts, you just have to show that you've taken matters into your own hands and that you know what to do. This is directly in the report, not the stenogram, and we've shown that we know what we need to do. Mrs Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać said at one point that some things in this report suggest that there was complicity by some people who testified. I wouldn't go so far as to call it that, but the fact that some of the things, some of the really very problematic things that have been discovered in front of this investigative committee, and I really invite everyone in this House, everyone in this country to read the things that we listed in this report, page 20, Berina Alihodžić – at 11 am told that I am a member of the Discipline Commission who has to decide today, I ask her who told you that, he wouldn't talk about names. But then he says, I quote it – I say stop just to come to myself, four, five hours of my previous disciplinary procedure. This one says, I know exactly who the member is, he says – at half past four we end up. I sat down then, I had 15 minutes literally and I really looked at it, it was really not clear enough for me, said give me a member, at 3 and 15 I came, in half 4 it was finished. A woman outside talks and says – I honestly tell you, I can't wait to turn 65, retire. Look at Prosecutor Simenunović, who talks about the conflict, about the appointments of families of members of the judicial community. I quote it – corruption is not only about receiving gifts and benefits, but also...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11948	Wrong quote, Mr. Arnaut. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11949	Well, it is, to Mrs. Brusać, who says she has the elements of complicity. Look at all these quotes in this report, look at the threats of the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office, see Mrs Tadić's confession not to use the CMS system, numerous judges and prosecutors confirm it, only three months after that UDT reacts.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11950	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11951	...proposed vedding, they sat, watched... confessed. Well, just because they were sitting in front of us just confessed, it's necessary for someone to investigate what's been going on. Because of these things we said UDT should do this, because if it doesn't, look at these allegations how shocking they are, read this report. If someone doesn't respond to this, we'll wait until after October to change the law, and then... do it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11952	Mr. Arnaut. The word is Mr. Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11953	The Honorable Chairman and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, I may not have had any intention of talking about this report even though I am a member of this Commission, but here I find it appropriate to address it with five suitable, actually with a few convenient sentences, I apologize. I'd like to thank my colleagues for taking their time. As I see it, many of them also carefully read this Report and the articles which are, are, in fact, accompanied by, the materials that are attached, which come with the report itself, that's good. We have done what we have done, of course it is subject to criticism, both members of Parliament and the general public. What we did at this point, it was a reflection of our abilities, our really best intentions, which doesn't mean that we're excluded under any criticism. After all, both hours and hours, and days and days of time that have been invested in front of our colleagues but also before bh. The public also brought in to offer them this report is something that we have agreed to and where we are obliged in the name of the people to do everything in accordance with the Constitution and the law to teach the system better. I wish to our colleagues who did not participate in the work of this Commission, I really cannot understand these reasons, and I would not want right now at the very end to open up the discussion, to take active participation in some future ventures, to make their contribution and to do a much better job than we have done at this point. I believe that we have done a good job, and we have authentically conveyed what the views and observations of the people of the judiciary are in the report. On that basis, I draw conclusions, and I think it's an important thing. I would also like to warn you of one thing in recent discussions that is easily made statements. So for example, I will have to quote - about the unfair foundation of the BiH judiciary, so that there is no constitutional basis, etc. It's too little time here to talk about it and show that things don't stand, that things don't, so they don't stand like that. The BiH judiciary is based on the Constitution and it has a clear constitutional basis and now it is up to us to fix what we have. We have made our modest contribution, we hope that others who, behold, have opted to be 60 observers of the whole process, that at some subsequent stage they will roll up their sleeves and take active participation and give their own contribution where we will also, perhaps if we are in that function or as citizens, as part of the general public of BiH, be able to take a critical look at the results of their work, therefore, to the results of their work, and not to the work itself, not to attempt to do anything, not the composition of the Commission. The Commission could've gotten everyone in here. You chose not to be a part of it. We're all very sorry about that, and, well, I'd like to thank you one more time. We will continue to work in the interest of citizens either through such commissions, or some other commissions, doing our best. Sometimes it can be a lot, sometimes it can be modest in terms of overall circumstances within society, but we will work and continue to work. Certainly none of these people will choose the status of observers, and I would say in a large part and an unfounded critic, but here, since you've expressed your views on the results of our work, here's to make a point of your criticism that I welcome. There are some things to be appreciated, but it seems to me that it's much more important here that who did this Commission, why this Commission was even formed, actually why we even exist here, why we come at all. That's what some ministries should be doing, it's something else to do, it's all in this country that someone else should be doing without us doing anything. Well, that's the contribution of this commission, which we want to do, so if it's a millimeter, a millimeter, but that millimeter we did. Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11954	Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11955	So something, a kind of reaction to what Mr. Begić said and what Mr. Arnaut said. The composition of the Commission to my colleague Begić, therefore, I didn't say anything about him at least, I don't know maybe you didn't mean to tell me, but I have to tell you that I belong to a political option that's been in the last six, seven, if not eight years every time I refused the information of the prosecution, the VSTV and the Court, and perhaps most of the people who were in that composition of the Commission or the Commission here have now supported these reports and the information from which the proposals of different species have also been made, that I am now not reading and taking up time, which are also in these recommendations here. You weren't in the last session, okay, but so I'm telling you that's how it was, so that's how it was. Now, Mr. Arnaut, did you read something there that belonged to you from Mr. Perić, as far as I know, he was VSTV president, but the Commission, the commission, didn't have the courage to say who was to blame for coming here, who was to blame? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You know, HDZ, yes. You have no other answer, and the gentleman who knows best is why you called him, well knows who's guilty and what he did, and he said well, he said everything right. However, now you who later remembered that the judiciary was not right in relation to the time I was talking about earlier
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11957	Wrong quote, Mr. Lovrinović. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11958	Now you'd be criticizing someone past time. Tell me who's to blame, how did this happen, who led us to this? Don't let us invent hot water.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11959	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11960	Well, I really need to correct some wrong allegations. So, I will refer to Mr. Lovrinović's allegations, according to an unusual report. I guess that's the quality of this report, that it's not dry and it's not boring and it's exciting, and here's this brief summary that's done by the Council of Europe that certainly makes it different from others, and I think it should be quality, not something that should be criticised. Also, he says that we ourselves boasted whether, here, the members of the Commission, praised us and others, it is well Mr. Lovrinović knows, foreign ambassadors, the OSCE Mission, the Council of Europe, congressmen and senators from the United States who also have a very committed tradition of such work and parliamentary oversight. He says it wasn't supposed to work like this. So we would like to have examples, to know how we should work, and I would be happy that, here, perhaps Mr. Lovrinović had participated in a report like this before and constantly here and Mrs. Novaković and he called for some past times. Well, I don't know when I was supposed to get a sense of justice, but in my first term of office. So, in time, I realized that the judiciary was in crisis. He also says, I'm not going around Mr. Perić, that's what Damir explained, so this is exactly a domestic product, not a product of foreigners. So he also says he doesn't have a lawyer in witnesses, he does, it's not true he doesn't, he should read. Also, here again I mention ministers, etc., the state minister who comes from his party did not want to come to the stand, the only man called to testify. And as for oaths, telling the truth, etc., we are not a judicial institution, so we only swear before the courts that we will speak the truth and only the truth, and as an example, we would also quote hearings, for example, which we have conducted before the Commission for Budget and Finance, according to the audit reports no one has ever disputed or asked anyone to swear, because only witnesses swear before the court.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11961	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Point 19. Ad. 19. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The basic assumptions for inspection supervision in BiH institutions", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2242/21 of 29. 12. 2021. 62 The Finance and Budget Commission delivered its opinion, the Komsija accepted the report and referred it to the further procedure. I'm opening a debate. There were no reported after a serious debate over item 18. I'm closing the debate. Point 20. Ad. 20. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Problems and disadvantages of BiH institutions in the public procurement system", submitr: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2264/21 of 31. 12. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11965	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, I want to thank you for the opportunity to give me a bold explanation of the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2021. The information on the work is made up in accordance with the law, it has been sent to you all to learn about it and I will not read the statistics now and what it contains, I would like to take advantage of this distinction that has been given to me to address the House of Representatives to present some of my problems that we have identified in the BiH Prosecutor's Office which we believe this esteemed House can help us in this future period, given the authority you possess. 63 The first and what I want to talk briefly about is the transparency of the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, i.e. openness to the public. The BiH Prosecutor's Office has no problem fully opening its work to the public and the public is permanently familiar with what it is doing, because we are all aware that the public is interested in everything that comes to the prosecution and what is from the prosecution's jurisdiction and what is not from the prosecution's jurisdiction. In that part, I am acting as the chief prosecutor at the end of 2021 and I have made a mandatory instruction that the BiH Prosecutor's Office publishes dissuasive confirmed indictments, meaning the indictments that have been confirmed before the Court of Justice of BiH so that the public may fully know any concrete case in which we press charges and in which case the Court of BiH, which we press charges, recognises that there is sufficient evidence of reasonable doubt in such concrete cases. We think that this is one significant step towards transparency of the work of the prosecution itself, because it simply gives the public the opportunity to be specifically aware of all details of every specific case of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and excludes any possibility of manipulation of information in terms of which cases are concerned or, for example,. in the case of war crimes cases to which the area is concerned, how many victims, which is the property of the perpetrators of these crimes, or, for example, who are the evidence that stands by these suspects, or accused persons. The second part that is very important about the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which was, which was also an integral part of our work in 2021, is the focus on organised crime and corruption, and we have all witnessed, we have been out in public many times, with information that concerns evidence that we collect together with international relevant institutions concerning organised crime where our citizens or persons are involved. In that part, the BiH Prosecutor's Office has significant problems which we believe Parliament, although some of these problems are not from Parliament's jurisdiction, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, but we believe that Parliament's authority can help solve these problems. First and foremost, the international co-operation of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, i.e. all the prosecutions with other relevant institutions, and I am primarily thinking of Europol and Eurojust. As far as Europala is concerned, it is the European Police Agency organisation through which police agencies in BiH receive information on organised and most difficult forms of other crime. The problem with the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the police agencies is that BiH has not fully established co-operation with Evropol in a way that we have our own contact points and that this contact is a point of full capacity in order to get the information that is crucial to us in this matter as quickly as possible. We now have a designated contact point in the seat of Europol, but we have not fully established these mechanisms. The second part of the specific subject matter I am talking about is international legal aid. International legal aid is now largely resolved in Europe through Eurostat, meaning the European Association of Prosecutors and all European Union countries have their national members, prosecutors in The Hague, at the headquarters of Eurostat and other countries, including all countries in the region, so former Yugoslavia, including Albania, here is the country of former Yugoslavia, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Serbia, all have signed agreements with the Eurocast, have their prosecutors in Eurojust and are able to share in real time evidence concerning international legal assistance. BiH is negotiating with Evrodžast, it negotiated in 2018 and 2019, we failed to sign the agreement, we are now in the process of being able to negotiate, but the condition that the European Commission sets before BiH is the harmonisation of the Law on the Protection of Personal and Secret Data of BiH with the European Directive on the Protection of Personal Data of the European Union. So, until BiH fulfils that condition, we will not be able to sign an agreement with the Evrodžast, or with the European Commission, we are now negotiating with the European Commission, and we are not in a position to exchange evidence for international legal assistance in real time. This is important to us because you know that under the Law on Criminal Procedure investigations are in cases within the jurisdiction of the BiH Prosecutor's Office are time-limited. The detentions, i.e. measures to ensure the presence of suspects in the investigation are also time-limited and in situations where we do not receive evidence in time we are unable to press charges before the Court of Justice of BiH and we are at risk of being held by suspects suspected of the most serious forms of organised crime, we were, behold, witnesses in this earlier period in early 2022 that we have, here, and in custody of the order of the murder of a police inspector, the head of the Prijedor criminal police. So these items show what the perpetrators of these crimes are up to, and if we're not able to quickly exchange evidence through international legal aid, then we're in a position not to be able to press charges in such serious crimes in time. I would ask Parliament, or the House of Representatives, in these two parts to try to help both ultimately and by affecting BiH's executive power. Furthermore, what is very important to us, just here are a few sentences, and these are amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, since this assembly of the House of Representatives before the end of the term of office is also a matter of whether there is time for these changes. But I want to introduce you to the BiH Prosecutor's Office on its colleges to take initiatives and we have sent on several occasions the initiative towards and, and according to the BiH Ministry of Justice for the need to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure for the introduction of institutes which, which are the only real tools that can be us, which can serve us to fight effectively organised crime, are tools that have countries in the region of Serbia and Croatia primarily and, of course, all other developed countries, which relate to the witness institution, i.e., for example. convicted as an associate or a crown witness, as we have in the Republic of Croatia, we need all of this to be effective and combat organised crime. We have also addressed an initiative to amend legislation, relevant legislation in the area of the need to regulate digital currency areas. So, right now in BiH, we don't have the legislation that we can, for example. to subtract digital money, and we are aware that organised international criminal groups end up with values, i.e. the property benefits they acquire and convert into digital money. So these are all the shortest things that the D.A. is currently a problem at work, and I wouldn't go any further, I'd leave an opportunity if there was any need for specific questions. As for this part of transparency that I was already talking about, it means that everyone has the opportunity to address the BiH Prosecutor's Office for any specific subject and we will, of course, in accordance with our options not to make it worse, of course, the investigation into these cases and the answers and we are doing it daily to all BiH citizens, so that is the shortest, if there are questions here alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11966	Thank you, Mr. Kajganić. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11967	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I answered, colleagues and colleagues, in part to thank, therefore, Mr. Chief Prosecutor, because at the session of the Constitutional Commission, I was 65, but then I also told him that we were also members of the Constitutional Commission that this was not the first time that I was in the previous term and now asked the prosecutors, judges, the VSTV presidents, therefore, to give me their consideration as people who are headed by certain institutions about the problems that are in that institution. And he did it in part here, I thank him for it. So I asked the previous prosecutors, therefore, not only the dry statistics that can be read from which certain questions, demands, conclusions, etc. can be drawn. And the other thing, so here's a colleague and a colleague, so this is regulated by law, this is what we do every year, in this way we could, therefore, communicate with the prosecutors, with the President of the Court, with the president of the VSTV, make conclusions, propose and do it and we did it, so I just said it the way I was saying it. However, I have spoken of the position of the political option that I belong to, so just for the sake of knowing certain things, we are not a political option that is against the introduction of the Supreme Court, for example. But it's not just us, it's not just us. So, we're not against the chief prosecutor, as far as I'm concerned, here, now I'm not saying ad hoc like this at the club, of course, having consulted on this, that the attorney general should appoint us, or that when we don't adopt his reports, and not his information, therefore, that he who is relevant to change it. So you don't know our opinions about it or you don't want to know, but that's our attitude. So we're not against reform, and I'm just going back to what I was saying in the previous point of what we've been found and what they've done to us, so they haven't allowed us to create solutions that are applicable to our space. Or, let's just say, we never got an answer, a follow-up to the last point and a debate, I'll remind you that maybe two years ago or a little more or less, unimportant, the VSTV deputy, Mrs Jukić, said that, therefore, she asked the Presidency to inform the United Nations that representatives of the international community are messing with the solutions of the prosecutor and the bailiffs, the court officials in BiH, so she cited Incka, so she cited the OSCE, so she listed, therefore, the embassy. So, to be called into the glass-gum room, that's what the previous prosecutor told us would tell us how it was happening, what was happening. Look, that's what the Deputy High Court and Prosecutor's Council said, she never got an answer from the presidency, ever. So don't think that the commission we were just discussing first made up, so hot water and started talking about problems in the judiciary. There were some of them, but you didn't touch the key ones, among other things, as Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursaća said, and here's what this is. I thank Mr. Prosecutor once again, he has made some points, said suggestions on what they need, what they expect from us and from the ministry. That's the way to do it and do it or to get this solution that I'm talking about into the law so that we can do it that way, and not, so, this way, in my opinion, question it in some way, ice judges, prosecutors so that we can come up with some kind of solution or do their master's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11968	Mr. Damir Arnaut, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11969	Thank you, Chairman. And you see exactly what this is about, is what Mr. Chief Prosecutor has just said, this is news to some of you, which is what the man was talking about, to us, to the members of the investigative committee and to those who read the report and all the stenograms, this is not news at all, because the man was talking about it on March Eurodžast in front of the Istrest Commission, unlike the last chief prosecutor, as soon as he was called to make contact with the Sekretarijat, he appeared in time without any attempts to excavate the testimony, etc. And here I quote from his testimony at the time, he was talking about the same two problems on March 10th, and I quote -- the second problem is, BiH alone in the region has no signed co-operation agreement with Eurodžast. Eurostat is the European Association of Prosecutors, I am appointed, I quote it, I was appointed in 2018 as a contact point in front of BiH, but we do not have a representative, we do not have a prosecutor to sit in The Hague at least occasionally, e.g. Montenegro has a colleague who is in The Hague for seven days and three weeks in Podgorica. So we do not have a representative in Eurostat because we have failed to sign the agreement by the end of 2020, because the Parliamentary Assembly has not adopted amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act. The law does not comply with the European law of 2016 and I was a member of the negotiating and agreement group, it was simply expected to adopt the law. The law was prepared in late 2019 or early 2020, I don't know if it was sent to parliamentary procedure. However, we missed that deadline, and by that time we could speak directly to Eurodžast and enter into an agreement, after the end of 2020, BiH will have to negotiate with the European Commission on an agreement with Eurodžast, and this will also, once we adopt the law, which is a condition for the agreement, extends the period of negotiation and it restricts us and makes it impossible for us to exchange data, information and evidence with the countries of Europe and the world. In order for us to try to solve these problems, I sent three fellow prosecutors and representatives of two BiH police agencies to The Hague in early January 2021, arranged meetings with Europol representatives and the directors of Eurostat, and then in such a way we tried, we succeeded in a certain extent in establishing direct co-operation, to overcome these difficulties that really nobody can understand, and you can imagine how we feel when I explain to my colleagues in The Hague that we do not have full co-operation with Europol because we cannot agree on where to sit the contact point. These are difficulties that make our work more difficult. I quoted the testimony V.D. Chief Prosecutor before the Commission of Investigation on 10 March. You know why this Personal Data Protection Act stands? The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has prepared a draft, they are unfortunately not an authorised promoter, sent to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, which has been managed by the HDZ for 16 years, has been holding back the law and therefore profiting criminals because there is no law. And now, watch out, as far as the Commission has taken this testimony seriously, which you have not even read, so I am now quoting it here, on the same March 10th after the testimony has been completed, I am proposing, now quoting myself – I will now only propose to these points of the agenda, I have already announced it, now formulate it, so: The interim investigative committee is asking the Council of Ministers to refer to the procedure to amend and supplement the law, or, if necessary, a new Law on the Protection of Personal Data, which is in line with the standards of the European Union, and taking into account the testimony of the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, Mr Milanko Kajganić, which is being provided with this initiative. It's a unanimous conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11970	Mr. Arnaut, the information is on the prosecution's work, not your commission's report, that's what we're done with. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11971	Mr. Chairman, do you see how relevant this is, Mr. Chief Prosecutor here, before the beginning of July, is talking about the same problem that he was talking about in front of the committee on March 10th, the commission adopted a conclusion on these things that man was just talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11972	Okay, we understand that, but now we're talking about Information.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11973	Well, that's part of the information, that's
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11974	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11975	It's an essential part of the information. No, so that's all man ever talked about, how he didn't. Don't put your head in the sand, man, see how much trouble BiH has with international crime, because the minister of justice won't put this on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. I suggest that on March 10th, the commission heard from him, adopted the conclusion, asked the Council of Ministers to deliver it to the procedure, not four months later. Well, of course it's relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11976	Please stick to the agenda. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11977	Well, I'm really glad Mr. Kajganić mentioned this particular problem. So, of course I was familiar with him through the commission's work, but I'm not going to talk about that part now, because here's my colleague Arnaut already said. My kolegica Aida and I were also familiar with this problem through the work of the Commission for Human Rights because we discussed the Report of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. That's when the Agency's director presented this same problem to us, the same one completely. Here, we listen to how these reports make something work, how it should be done, as it was done, here's what Mr. Lovrinović says, says Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać we should do it another way, etc. Here, we were working, so, 09.03.2022, a colleague, actually before 09.03., we sent Aida and I to the parliamentary procedure of the initiative to end the process of harmonisation from the area of protection of personal data with the newly adopted regulations of the European Union. So, because we got the information that this law car is standing somewhere in someone's drawer, I tend to say, it got lost in the futility of our procedures in adopting legal regulations. And watch what happens, in 09.03.2022, our proposal falls in the first round, and in 27.04.2022, the proposal falls in the second round of voting on this Parliament and then some MPs here say something is done. Well, gentlemen, don't do anything, just like the Council of Ministers and the Secretary of Staff, the Minister in charge. Because we didn't have the honor of seeing Mr. Grubeša at all or we might have seen him once or twice, I don't remember, and you see, we'd have a lot to ask him, like the wave of this bench on the left hand side of the empty one. So don't do it, and then it's your fault that they're doing it and don't, please don't throw yourself around here with the claims right, the way we do it, we're doing it based on these reports, don't do it, period.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11978	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11979	Thank you, Chairman. I've noticed a few things like that in this report that kind of sounded to me, which gave me a strange impression, so here's what I'd like to share. For example, on page 15, it says that you have 206 cases from earlier years when it comes to war crimes, against 2,913 people, and only in the last year have 50 cases been received against 338 people. This sounds kind of strange to me, 26 years after the war in one year, 338 people for war crimes reported to me, the right to tell you that seems to me like some kind of political activity so that someone would report some crimes, because it was known after the war where the crimes were committed, most of which were known to the suspects for these war crimes, and now I find it strange, although war crimes don't get old and they can apply for ten years, but I find it odd that what you've been doing is being reported in the last year. But I'm not asking for your comment on it, I just want to share it. When it comes to the work of all BiH prosecutors, of course you are not responsible for the lower prosecution, because it is not such a system in BiH, but we do not have the opportunity to have any cantonal prosecutor here, either the Republic of Serbia or the Federal Prosecutor, we have you alone and here I want to tell you that I still don't think there is an adequate prosecutorial fight against corruption, because there were only 235 corruption charges at BiH level in the previous year. If we have in mind how many prosecutors there are in BiH, if I'm not mistaken earlier, the report said, this year there were no 377, then it's not a single indictment by the prosecutor. So, 235 counts of corruption throughout BiH. However, in addition to 235 indictments of 555 orders not to conduct an investigation and 119 orders to suspend an investigation totaling 674 prosecutorial decisions not to carry out an investigation or that the investigation will be suspended, which means three times, almost three times as many as the charges filed. In my opinion, this is not an adequate fight against corruption and only 11 high-corruption investigations, 3% of the total number of investigations, or just six high-corruption charges. Maybe this isn't in your report, this is from the VSTV report, but I'm telling you, this, because it matters to me, you're here as the Attorney General and I'm not, believe me, I don't care about the nationality of the man who sits in that position, it's important that a man gives me confidence and that he can give us back hope to all of us and the citizens of this country in an impartial and independent judiciary and above all an effective judiciary. I somehow have a feeling by now that you're going to be doing this job independently and impartially and that it won't be untouchable for you, that feeling I have, maybe that feeling will fool me, but here today I have told you about my feeling when in this room, in that other hall before the crown came the prosecutor Tadić I felt and this feeling carried me all these four years. Today I have a different feeling when it comes to you, and I saw your relationship on the Constitutional Commission and I want that feeling not to fool me and thank you for the information you submitted and for the opening explanation. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11980	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11981	I was just about to add this to Mrs. Čolo's exposure, therefore, that only had a previous feeling about the prosecutor, that it was so that we would experience something new, that we would experience catharsis, so, but until it went to those rubber rooms, as VSTV's deputy once said. Mrs. Lepić and Mr. Arnaut, therefore, is not this problem with Europol, nor are these other problems that you mentioned only from this submission of Mr. Prosecutor's report, or on the committee's testimony, these are the problems that are already among us and who are looking for solutions, we have failed to solve them so that, again I say, the hot water invented, these problems exist, they need to be solved. I don't slow down, and I don't regret it, to put it that way, I don't know what kind of other word you'd use, so, um, colleagues from the opposition which, as they say, means... that they're going to do, what they're doing, what they're looking for, etc. I'm only sorry that they can't figure out who the parliamentary majority is, but unfortunately, not even parts of the parliamentary majority can't figure it out. So then we have this roshomon from Parliament that doesn't know who the majority is, or who isn't, so you can't hope and expect us to, let's not say, with constant initiatives, that's either the right of business or the constantness of your efforts to force, under the circumstances, the parliamentary majority to bring something. We want to make a deal, we want to insist, we want to talk, we want to exchange opinions, but, yes, yes, yes, just that you've proposed an initiative to make it go away, so obviously there's this problem somewhere, obviously there's a problem, but you didn't perceive it, but we're not in the parliamentary majority either, so I have to be honest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11982	Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11983	Well, Mr. Lovrinović, I'm sorry, Mr. Lovrinović says this is not a new problem and it needs to be solved. So here's what we're proposing to get rid of, we don't know what's the problem in our initiative, where it's said that..., that the process is finally decommissioned, that the process of the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act should be in the interest of all BiH citizens, therefore, in order to prevent international crime, i.e. the meaning of those, and the processing of those persons associated with this phenomenon. So is it really the biggest problem here, and obviously it is, from whom the proposal comes, and not what the essence of the proposal is, and that was the whole time of this House's work was a problem. That's why we don't solve certain problems. I understand that most of them of course decide, but then don't tell us that these problems need to be solved, so here you are not offering, not offering the Council of Ministers, not offering the Secretary-General, here's the offer of the opposition people and you're not going to solve it again. So, just to adopt an initiative to take it off. So we didn't propose a legal proposal, because you say it all the time, you have to solve it systemically, and nothing is being resolved systemically because the laws are not being proposed. Here, we are merely proposing an initiative to decommission the process, because of such an important issue, which is also potential here by Mr. Kajganić, 70 that has been potentiated by the director of the protection agency and you are voting against again. Well, I really, I mean, I don't know what to think anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11984	Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11985	Well, it is not only that this parliamentary majority, which has fewer proposed laws, but one club of MPs, specifically Our Party – an independent bloc, does not act on these initiatives of the opposition, you do not function within yourself, because the draft law came from the SNSD's director of the Personal Data Protection Agency and cannot be more of a SNSD man before he was appointed to that post as a adviser to Milorad Dodik, before he was a secretary, which was a politically appointed function in the past meeting, at the beginning of the last term of the Representative's House, an extremely competent man, suggests a draft law, a HDZ minister who is authorized to place the draft on the Council of Ministers's office refuses to put him on the Council of Ministers. So that part of the bar has nothing to do with the opposition, it's inside your parliamentary majority problem. Now, you see, it can be built up, so that same parliamentary majority, here, today wants to raise salaries to MPs and ministers by 500 marks, and to cops and soldiers only by 80, and that's a fiscal damage, that's an injustice to those people who do the hardest and most risky jobs, but that's what the damage costs. We have a problem with international organised crime here. I mean, can you imagine a situation in a country where the chief prosecutor comes and says -- I don't have the tools to fight international organised crime, I need that law. And the parliamentary majority boasts that it is the parliamentary majority and says – we will not give you that law, because we are the parliamentary majority, the staff now. Now that's your approach, and that's what criminals in the line rub their hands on all three constituent peoples and order of others. Now, that's the result of your parliamentary majority coming to you here as chief prosecutor and practically asking you for that law, and you tell him we won't give it to you, we're parliamentary majority, you can't give us anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11986	Representative Zukan Helez, hearing. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11987	I thank the chairman. It's V.D. today. BiH's chief prosecutor in a thankless role, this is the 2001 Information.(?) A year, and it seems to me that you weren't all over 2001.(?) on the forehead, whether or not, and as V.D. Head of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. When I was a minister, I had a similar situation, so to defend the report, this is a small difference, that I defend the report from my previous colleague, and then there's a lot of things that you can't quite detail and where you weren't really wondering. In principle, anyone new who comes and when the new Council of Ministers and new governments are called together or any choice in any position should basically give people a chance and I support this choice and I am giving you a chance until we see, is, how, how will it be done. The first impressions, as well as colleague Čolo Alma, are the first impressions to me that you are the man who wants to do a lot of things, to make a move in this business. Now, I am aware, especially through the work of this commission, of how dangerous it is to be a nice prosecutor and the president of the court, and the judge, and the prosecutor at lower levels because our borders are what they are, because they're pornic, because here every day you read about some mob clans, all the media is writing, scissors, coffees, I don't even know how it is anymore, even the media is writing that these two clans have tentacles and in this Parliament, that they're co-operated with certain representatives and more media, more than 71 media sources. So it's very hard for you to work, uh, and there needs courage and we all need to be given support to both judges and prosecutors, and in that sense you have my support all, is it, while you're working. Look at this war crimes thing, once upon a time at sea, when I was on vacation, I was told by a Dalmatinac - you are bad people in Bosnia. I ask him - what? So he says, "You're all defending your criminals." I have never heard anyone stand up and say: that this man was condemned in the order of that people, and he did, and the court and the prosecution were so rad. So it takes a while and you have it, and that's why you have a very difficult and ungrateful role, but you're aware that's the case. I'm going to ask you a specific question, I don't know who else to ask. So, in the District Court of Bugojn, the following happened, it seems to me, for eight years, that the judge was taking his punishment, and he was erasing them, and it grew close to me, it seems to me a million marks, now don't tie me up exactly to, and I wrote to Mr. Lagumdžija to the president of the VSTV, it was covered up. The President of the Court covered it up because it was before the re-election for two or three days, immediately after the re-election, she changed that reference which, uh, that was done by Judge Haračić-Hadžibegović-Randžan Ranjana and no one, nor the Federal MUP, or any commission from the VSTV, or any prosecutor's office, did anything. I ask you, whom shall I address to process it, what is the guarantee to the tragedies that this person will be impartial, and impossible not to know the President of the Court for eight or how many years but, how long has it been there, that this is happening, what is the guarantee to the citizens that she will be just, just, what should she be? It's the court that's supposed to protect it all, and in court it happened and it's all covered up. Now I'm asking you, I'm guessing you don't have any authority, the Cantonal Prosecution is silent, Federally, MUP, SIPA, who can I promise just to figure out exactly what the amount is? Because in these local communities, there is often the court and the prosecution, and the MUP, etc. And here I call upon you, to guide me here as a representative at the highest level of whom to and how to guide people to clean up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11988	...you have heard, Commissioner Nikola Lovrinović, the correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11989	Yes, I am now, Mr. President. So, Mrs. Lepić, it's not, in my opinion, important so maybe you misunderstood me and I don't think it's right from which proposals and solutions come, but how. So I'm sure you don't think that some of the problems in the state, in BiH, should be solved from the eye, but systematically, I'm sure you think so too. So they can actually just get rid of, as far as I understand anything,...they can't just do that. And Mr. Arnaut and this report of the judiciary, these wages, his insinuations, so, well, I could say that, quite accidentally, all of these proposals and these pre-election reports came in right now, yes. And as far as I'm aware of the Working Group for the Change of the CAP at the Ministry of Justice has been working for a long time, and this also Working Group on Money Laundering, which is the issue of solving the currency crypt, as far as I'm aware, so that's where it's been working, so here it is, whether it's the system or not, whether it's going to take a long time, whether it's gonna be short, whether I'm coming back again, so that's where I agree with Mr Arnauta again, that's not a lot offered by the parliamentary majority, that's what I've been saying and I haven't been able to say before, not a year ago, not two years ago, not even in the last term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11990	zastupnica Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, a correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11991	Well, I don't know what's not systematic or systematic as Mr. Lovrinović says. So, we just submitted the initiative, left it to the Council of Ministers, which means, i.e. the competent ministry is proposing a law and the Council of Ministers is, according to the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure, offering this law. Therefore, I really think that we have done everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that, here, the system law again enters the parliamentary procedure, therefore, by the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers, and not by the MPs, because here it is constantly disputed that, behold, Bog, it is not systemically when MPs propose and again, therefore, it is not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11992	Thank you. No more reports, closing the debate at this point. Moving to point 22. Ad. 22. The appointment of the directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, the applicant of the Report on the designation of the candidate ranking: Committee for Education and Monitoring of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 05/8-50-15-940/22 of 15. 06. 2022. The Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption submitted a report on the identification of the candidate-list, the report you received. The first-ranked cadidat for the director of the Agency is Elvis Kondžić, the first-ranked candidates for the deputy director of the Agency are Damirka Mioč and Rade Ristović. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to item 23 of the agenda, Ad. 23. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-34-1-684-22 of 23. 06. 2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11995	Thank you, Chairman. So I have passed this complete process of appointing the Council of National Minorities as a member of the Joint Commission on Human Rights and already during the process I have had a certain 73 remarks on the performance of the score and on the proposal of the candidates. In this regard, the Commission adopted a Decision on a Council of National Minorities and in the decision-making process I was a permanent defender of the Law on Gender Equality, an initiator to include this clause as one of the criteria, of course, in collaboration with civil society organisations, so above all, organisations dealing with roma rights, and specifically, with the women Roma NGO "Better Future" from Tuzla. Therefore, never before has the representatives of the Council of National Minorities been in the Council of National Minorities at the state level and therefore this is indeed one form of discrimination and of course non-compliance with the Law on Gender Equality. In order to correct this injustice on my initiative, this Decision therefore sets out in Article 3(4) as a criterion – on the basis of the reports collected, and in order to comply with the provisions of Article 20(2) of the Law on Gender Equality, that is the percentage of 40% of the less-represented sex, the Joint Commission sets out a proposal for members of the Council to submit to the Parliamentary Assembly. So, with the insistence to comply with the provision of Article 20. I suppose that insistence implies that if a woman comes to the competition that she should be chosen to honor this relationship. Also in the Rules of Procedure on the conduct of interviews and the score of candidates registered for a public invitation to run for membership of the Council of National Minorities in the position (3), the position (4) stands – when deciding on the proposal of candidates for membership in the Council of National Minorities, taking into account the total number of points, being careful, taking the biography of candidates, the need for equal entity representation from the Brcko District of BiH, and full representation in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality of BiH. However, when it comes to the appointment of a member of the Council of National Minorities in front of the Roma national minority, a man was re-elected despite the fact that a woman, a Romkinja woman, a magistrate and a woman who received the highest number of points from the Commission for an interview. The Commission, I may say, has been fragmented in a positive sense in the words and delighted with its references and its performance. In the end, we now have that five women from one national minority of two women, so two Romanian Rumunka, one Romkinja, one Albanka, and one Slovenka, and we have that last three, and that's 16% of women. Therefore, I believe that the election in the Council of National Minorities did not go in the way and in line with these members of these acts that I have read to you, and therefore I ask that you vote today against this proposal, because it is therefore not in line with what the Commission itself is, or the College, or the President and vice-presidents who have adopted this Rules of Procedure and also in accordance with this Decision on the Council of National Minorities adopted by the whole Commission. I, therefore, also pointed out to the Commission itself on these illegalities, of course, that they were working on some lobbies and that I had not received support, but here I wanted this House to know that, therefore, the Law on Gender Equality was not respected here and that they were not respected, here are the members of the Commission's acts that the Komsija itself adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11996	Thank you, counsel. No more reports, closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 24. Ad. 24. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes for the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public 74 Procurement (P.Z.E.I., Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), Law No 01,02-02-1-495/21 of 16. Three. 2021. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement was adopted in a different text in the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and it is necessary to appoint members of the Joint Committee for the Consent of the Text of the Law. The House of Peoples in the Joint Committee appointed envoys: Lidija Bradara, Dušanka Majkić and Amir Fazlić. The proposal of the House of Representatives is to appoint representatives in the Joint Committee: Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, Predrag Kožul and jasmin Ermić. I'm opening a debate. No reports have been reported. I'm concluding a hearing on this agenda item. Moving to point 25. Ad. 25. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to comply with the text of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax (proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH), Law No: 01- 02-1-378/21 of 09. Three. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u11999	When a man, thank you, when a man wonders if there's anything new that can surprise us and shock us in this House, here's what we hear. So is it possible that the College of the House of Representatives in this Commission for the Consensation of this Law does not put in place a man who has proposed amendments and additions to the VAT Act that we have adopted, I ask, is that possible in any parliament on this planet other than this, what are you doing? So don't do that and put people in the Commission who voted against this law that needs to be brought into line. Well, people, this is an absurdity of absurdities, a paradox of paradoxes, this is a mockery, this is what you're making, you're really making a circus out of this Parliament. I choose words, believe me, I don't know how to explain what you're proposing. I cannot believe that you, serious people with a lot of political experience, have allowed yourself to be in front of the House of Representatives in a committee that needs to comply with two laws, do not put the man who proposed the law, who passed this House, Mr. Šarović. I would understand that it is a group of MPs or one parliamentary club, but it is a proposal submitted by Mr Šarović, 75 for which we voted because we consider it good and you do not consider it appropriate for him to be in that six-member commission one of the six who will try to bring changes and additions to the law on added value. That's a lot. Here, I would say that if I didn't have a proposal, I would suggest that it is only logical, normal, that in front of the House of Representatives one of those three MPs be Mr. Šarović, which is quite logical. There's not a single argument, not a single fact that contests what I'm saying. I hope that you will appreciate it and that we forget what you have suggested, as soon as possible not to go further into the collapse, degradation, humiliation, trampling of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Really, here I am, looking at you, shocked and surprised. I understand the House of Peoples has its own proposal, but this is about a proposal coming from the House of Representatives, for the Law supplementing the Law on Value Added, which we adopted here with most votes, on the proposal by Mr Šarović, which should be agreed by someone who was even against. So, I'd better stop, because everyone's going to be extra, I suggest Mr. Šarović instead of any of these MPs who voted against the VAT bill, I think it was someone, I know for a fact, from the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12000	Thank you. No more reports, closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 26. Ad. 26. Representative's initiative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, which is required by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, to correct the price of the fee paid in Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship within 90 days and is in line with the taxes of the countries in the region, number: 01-50-1-542/22 of 06. 04. 2022. The House College has designated the Joint Commission for Human Rights as competent to consider this initiative. The Joint Committee delivered its opinion, the Commission did not accept the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. zastupnica Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12002	I won't really owe it, I would just like to explain here why I submitted this initiative, based on a review report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office, which concerned taxis and fees at BiH level. In fact, it was found that regardless of the moratorium was put on new taxes and fees we have about, over 50, let's not now, I think 55, but over 50 new taxis from the moment when the moratorium was put in and what the commission found, therefore, pardon the Office of Audit is that for many fees the invested effort in, and the amount of fees do not correspond. In particular, efforts should be made to adopt certain acts, solutions, etc. confirmation of the issue of any beliefs, etc. be proportionate to the effort it has made. The 800-mark tax for giving up citizenship, and in the DKPs it is even bigger, has now become a source of profit for the budget, i.e. the source of budget filling, and this is a significant view of the number of people who give up BiH citizenship and of course there is always it, the question of whether we will encourage people like this more, is whether, if we give up citizenship if we cut taxes, and it is, this tax 76 is higher than in the countries of the region, but I don't think we will either, but we won't make money on people who give up citizenship. Whoever wants to give up citizenship will give up no matter how much tax, because it is really one big decision in life, but I don't think that this should be a source of profit and that indeed 800 marks of tax really are not proportionate to the effort made to make one solution to giving up citizenship, that is, the termination of citizenship.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12003	Thank you. No more reports, closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 27. Ad. 27. Saša Magazinović's parliamentary initiative tasking the BiH Council of Ministers to refer to the international organ exchange foundation Eurotransplant letter of intention to join BiH Eurotransplant, No: 01-50-1-847/22 out of 30. 05. 2022 The House College has designated the Joint Commission for Human Rights as competent to consider this initiative. The Joint Commission delivered its opinion, the Committee adopted a modified initiative tasking BiH's Ministry of Civil Affairs to inform the Council of the intention to join BiH an international organ exchange foundation within 30 days. I'm opening a debate on a modified initiative. For the debate, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12005	In 30 seconds, we all know what Eurotransplant is, therefore, providing the possibility for BiH citizens in a state of need for organ transplants, a huge problem today, are numerous, numerous testimonies of those who unfortunately did not welcome their ability to heal and, or a better and better quality life in another case. On the other hand, the possibility is growing and it is inevitable in meeting the conditions in these seven steps to develop transplant medicine in BiH, which is equally important. What's most important to me is that this initiative was adopted in a way that no one voted against, that it was voted for by both the government and the opposition both on the left and right and that the Human Rights Commission has actually shown that this is a subject that concerns all, that there are no Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, others, entities that this simply refers to sick people whose transplant means life. I am truly grateful to all those who have contributed to the discussion, who have modified the initiative itself in a way that is acceptable to all and ultimately who, without vote, have supported this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12006	Thank you very much. No more reports, closing the hearing at point 27. Moving to point 28. 77 Ad. 28. Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative, which requires the BiH Council of Ministers to supplement the Decision on the criteria for determining the salary allowance based on the implementation of complex information and application jobs in BiH institutions ("the Official Messenger of BiH", No. 38/09) of these other acts, which will allow for a salary supplement, i.e. a potential wage introduction to mid-professional IT professionals, number: 01-50-1-861/22 of 01. 06. 2022. The House College has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget as competent to consider this initiative. The Commission delivered its opinion, the Commission supported the initiative and referred to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Representative Zlatan Begić called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12008	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the first place, I would like to thank the committee responsible for hearing this initiative. I'll be very brief since it's about the topic that you're all more or less familiar with here. Something I, my colleagues, colleagues and colleagues met at the Committee session, and I met you at the last session where this was talked about. Namely, there has been an addition on the salary of highly skilled employees in BiH institutions of informational direction, informational direction, however, for years the salaries of high- and medium-sized IT employees are extremely low if compared to market conditions, so that there has been a drain of staff with high-level expertise, leaving their jobs within BiH institutions, which has affected the alignment of jobs and tasks and employees with the medium-based expertise of the informational direction, where the current situation is so that employees with medium-level training are actually forced to carry out high-level training activities in order to maintain information systems and to enable the functioning of BiH institutions, including our work here. Is that in mind, given the increase in the cost of living, given that the salaries of people employed in this business are unrealistically small in the institutions of BiH, I am asking you today to support this initiative, therefore there are legitimate reasons in terms of tasks and jobs carried out by this group of employees, i.e. workers, and in terms of their existential needs, increases in prices on the market, etc. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12009	Thank you, counsel. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 29. Ad. 29. Approval to ratify the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Individuals in relation to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, No: 01,02-21-1-977/22 of 21. 06. 2022. 78 The Commission for Foreign Affairs has given its opinion that the prior conditions for granting consent for ratification of that Protocol have been met. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 30. Ad. 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Cross-border Cooperation Programme – Montenegro for 2018. – 2020 for 2020 between the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-21-1-987/22 of 23. 06. 2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12013	I ask the MPs to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Everyone's in their seats, we start with a vote. 79 Point 1. – The adoption of the minutes of the 29th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH We vote on the adoption of the minutes. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. We can do it again. 33 present – 28 for, 5 abstentions. It's an adopted record. Point 3. - Proposal for Amendment II. at the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MEP Dženan Đonlagić, issue: 01-01-1-573/22 of 13. 4. In 2022, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, we are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. 33 present – 13 for, 20 against, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. Therefore, the opinion is not accepted, the legislative procedure is suspended in accordance with Article 113. Rules of Procedure. Point 4. – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2022, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-02-1-911/22 of 8. Six. 2022. (first reading) The Finance and Budget Commission held a meeting and submitted the Report. No amendments were tabled in the commission phase. I should be doing business right now to open a debate on the draft law in the second reading, but we've already discussed it as far as I can remember, and there have been no amendments, but here if someone wants to participate in the debate, but there are no amendments because it seems incomplete. There's no one here. So we're voting on the bill in the second reading. 33 total present – 21 for, 8 against, 4 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives adopted in a second reading of the Bill on Budgets of BiH institutions and international obligations for '22. A year. Thank you. Point 5. – Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposers: MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, issue: 01-02-1-863/21 of 21. 4. 2021, with the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, we are voting on the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. There's no general majority. 10 for, 23 against, no abstentions. The report is not accepted, the legislative procedure is suspended in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure. 80 Point 6. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposer: MEP Nenad Nešić, No: 01-02-1-812/22 of 24. 5. In 2022, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, we are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. 19 for, 8 against, 6 abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity majority. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission was not accepted. We're going to need to coordinate this second round, so we're going to do it later. Point 7. – Proposal for a law on the entry of membership to the constitutional people, national minority and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, No: 01-02-1-529/22 of 28. 4. In 2022, the Constitutional Commission and the Joint Commission on Human Rights voted on the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the Joint Commission on Human Rights. 28 for, versus 5, no abstentions. The Constitutional Commission's opinion has been accepted. So, the bill is considered rejected. Point 8. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of the MEPs from the HDZ Club - HNS for inclusion in the agenda of the 29th session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: The initiative on the coordination of transport costs and a warm meal of employees in BiH institutions, issue: 01-50-1-890/22 of 8. Six. 2022. Only in the second round on the proposal of members of the HDZ BiH-HNS Club. There's a lot of change, there's an entity majority. Adopted in the second round, a proposal from the HDZ-HNS Club MPs. Point 9. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the request of Parliamentarian Saša Magazinović for the examination of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of road safety of traffic in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-687/22 of 8. Six. 2022. We're voting in the second round on an emergency request. Emergency procedure adopted. For 21, against 5.7 abstentions, there's a general entity majority. Since the request has been adopted, a debate on the Bill's Proposal is being opened. Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12015	One sentence, just to remind you, is the law that provides for the penalty for taking up the place intended for disabled people, from the current 40, to 200KM which distinguishes this violation from parking on the sidewalk, green area and the other. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12016	Thank you. No more reports, closing the call. After the debate, we vote on the bill. 23 for, 5 against, 5 abstentions. There's a general, there's no ethnic majority. It's going to the second round, right, later alignment. Point 10. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Denis Zvizdić to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-818/22 of 8. Six. 2022. We're voting in the second round on an emergency request. 20 for, 9 against, 4 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. A request for an emergency procedure has been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Mr. Denis Zvizdić, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12017	Just one sentence, a reminder that it is a law that provides for the suspension of salaries for those who aimly block Parliament's work, i.e. parliamentary committees, that is to say, not coming to the commissions and meetings of Parliament, which is both the obligation and the right to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-27-0.u12018	Thank you. No more reports, we're voting on the bill. 20 for, 13, versus, no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. In this round of voting, no draft law has been passed, going into subsequent consultations. Point 11. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a proposal to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, following a brief legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 132. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-505/22 of 8. Six. 2022. It is only in the second round on the proposal to consider the draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act under a shortened procedure. 20 for, 13 against, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. It was adopted that the Law be considered by a shortened procedure. Point 12. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Public Procurement Act, 82 Proposer: MP Adil Osmanović, following a shortened legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 132. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-652/22 of 8. Six. 2022. Only in the second round on the proposal to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Public Procurement Act under a shortened procedure. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Twenty-five for eight against. It was adopted that MP Adil Osmanović's law was considered by a shortened procedure. Point 13. – Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2021, issue: 05/150-15-646/22 of 8. Six. 2022. We're voting in the second round on adoption of the report. 33 present – 20 for, 11 against, 2 abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that a report on the work of the Independent Committee has been adopted as an independent body of the police structure. Point 14. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Independent Committee's Work Plan as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2022, issue: 05/1-50-15-647/22 of 8. Six. 2022. We're voting in the second round of adoption of the Labour Plan. There's a general, there's an entity majority. 20 for, 8 against, 5 abstentions. I find that in the second round, we adopted the Plan of the Independent Committee as an independent body. Point 15. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Edita Đapo, Dženan Đonlagić, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Šemsudin Mehmedović, which obliges the Council of Ministers to prepare and to amend Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law within 60 days at the latest, to be treated as a special criminal offence, No: 01-50-163/22 of 8. Six. 2022. There's a general, there's an entity majority. 20 for, 6 against, abstention 7.. I konstatuj that the 2nd round adopted the National MPs' Initiative for Amendments to the Criminal Law of BiH. Point 16. – Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Edita Đapo, Saša Magazinović and Jasmin Emrić, which obliges the Council of Ministers to adopt a decision suspending the customs rate on imports of electric and significantly reducing the customs rate on imports of hybrid cars, No: 01-50-1-744/22 of 8. Six. 2022. We're voting in the second round on the parliamentary initiative. An adopted parliamentary initiative. 28 for, 4 against, 1 supported. 83 Point 17. – Annual report on the results of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution for 2021, issue: 01,02-37-1-786/22 of 19. 5. 2022. We're voting for adoption of the report. There's a general, no entity majority. We will subsequently agree on the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman Institution. 21 was in, 3 against, 9 abstentions. Point 18. – Report on the work of the Interim Research Commission of the Representatives' House to determine the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, issue: 01-50-4-906/22 of 8. Six. 2022. First on the proposal for the conclusion of Jasmin Emrić. You don't need to read the proposal or if you think you forgot I'll read it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly shall be in charge of the Council of Ministers to propose within 30 days to the House of Representatives a Decision appointing an interresor working group for the establishment of an action plan to implement 15 recommendations in Chapter IV of the proposed Platform from the Interim Investigation Commission on the establishment of the situation in judicial institutions. We're voting on a proposal for a conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion has not been adopted. 22 for, 10 against, 1 abstention. There's a general but there's no ethnic majority. We'll get to the bottom of this later. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 23.9 against, 1 abstention. There's a general, no entity majority. It wasn't a report adopted at this stage, and we'll agree on it later. Point 19. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The basic assumptions for inspection supervision in BiH institutions", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2242/21 of 29. 12. 2021. We're voting for adoption of the report. The report was not adopted, it has no entity majority, it has a general majority. 26 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 26 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Point 20. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Problems and disadvantages of BiH institutions in the public procurement system", submitr: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2264/21 of 31. 12. 2021; 84 We vote on adoption of the Report. 26 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's a general majority, no entity. No report adopted at this stage of the vote. We'll make a statement about him later. Point 21. – Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2021, issue: 01-09-555/22 of 7. 4. 2022. We're voting on receiving information. 9 for, 8 against, abstention 16. There's a general majority, there's no ethnic majority. He was not admitted to the knowledge, if this syntagma means anything, of the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work. Point 22. – Appointing directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, proud of the report on the identification of candidate rankings: Office for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 05/8-50-15-940/22 of 15.06.2022. We vote on the appointment of Elvis Kondžić as director of the Agency and the appointment of Damirka Mioč and Rad Ristović as deputy director of the Agency. 17 for, 13 against 3 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I understand the House of Representatives named Elvis Kondžić. Damirku Mioč and Rad Ristović as director and deputy director of the Agency. Point 23. – Proposal for a decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-34-1-684-22 of 23.6.2022. We're voting on the adoption of the motion for a decision. 18 for, 13 against, 2 abstentions. I find that the predstavnički of Representatives adopted a decision to appoint a Council of National Minorities. Point 24. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I., Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), Law No 01,02-02-1-495/21 of 16.6.2021. We vote on the appointment of MPs Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, Predrag Kožul and Jasmin Emrić to the Joint Commission. 31 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have appointed MPs Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, Predrag Kožul and Jasmin Emrić to the Joint Commission for Harmonisation. Point 25. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to comply with the text of the Law on Supplements to the Tax on Additional Value (proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH), Law No: 01- 02-1-378/21 of 9.3.2021. 85 We vote on the appointment of MPs Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, Predrag Kožul and Šemsudin Dedić to the Joint Commission. [[Common discussion]]
