ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3462	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, respected media representatives warmly welcome you and I am opening the 11th emergency session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 14 envoys – 4 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Mr Asim Sarajlić is justly absent from today's session. For the 11th emergency session, I propose the next agenda, the next Agenda 1 is proposed. The adoption of the minutes of the 10th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 2. The request of five envoys from the Bosniak People's Club at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene an emergency session of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02-50-6-770/22 since 16.05.2022. Is anyone answering for a word on the agenda? There are no reports, I can't see interest in the application. We're closing the agenda debate. If there are no amendments to the agenda, the agenda is adopted and is not voted in accordance with Article 62. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. Moving to the point of today's agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 10th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3464	2 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3465	You're giving up? Okay, you've given up, others don't see you have any interest in applying. We're closing the debate on the record. We are voting on the minutes of the 10th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14 — for 14. Federation of BiH – 9 all for, Republika Srpska – 5 for. There's a general, entity majority. We find that the minutes of the 10th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the two agendas today, Ad. 2. The request of five envoys from the Bosniak People's Club at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene an emergency session of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02-50-6-770/22 since 16.05.2022. You have received a request from five envoys from the Bosniak People's Club at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene this emergency session of the House of Peoples, which they propose a item of the agenda – the provision of funds for the financing of the General Elections, which will take place on 2 October 2022. I give the word to the applicant of the request. We have a report from Mr. Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3467	Dear colleagues and colleagues, chairman, media and others present. On behalf of the People's Club, the Bosniak people, although we have explained in the request the reasons for calling this session, I will explain these reasons a little more today, although these days we have different interpretations in the media for and against the legal basis for the allocation of these funds. For the second year in a row, BiH has not adopted a budget financed by BiH institutions. The BiH institutions are funded under a decision on temporary financing by the Council of Ministers. The basis for the Interim Financing Decision is the 2020 Budget, which significantly reduced funds to almost all budget users, and due to the separation of the 42 million conversion marks for COVID-19, which are mostly recognised by entities. After the decision on temporary financing for the first quarter of 2022, the Central Election Commission addressed the Ministry of Finance and Treasury at the BiH Council of Ministers with a request that they be accompanied by an operational, i.e. The dynamic spending plan for the first three months of 2022 also allocated 1,054,000,00 KM, which is the budget of the BiH institutions for 2020 to hold local elections. The CEC funds were intended to be used, meaning, to conduct the elections in 2022 as provided for by the law. 3 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3468	The microphone's on, but please a little louder, yes,
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3469	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3470	'Cause it's hard.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3471	Listen and you'll hear. So these funds were intended to be used by the CEC to conduct the 2022 elections. On 14 January 2022, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury gave its act a negative response to the proposal of the operational, i.e. a dynamic CEC plan with an explanation that the budget of 2022 for local elections under code 0706670 in the financial management information system cannot be allocated to the CEC for the conduct of general elections, and that they are in the same information system under code 0706630. It is very important to draw attention to the fact that in the last paragraph of Minister Bevanda's reply, Bevanda referred to the CEC on Article 11 of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 61/04, 49/09/42/18(?, 87/12 and 32/13, which is prescribed, means that the Council of Ministers can make a special decision on expenditures that were not foreseen in the budget of the previous year. I quote the last paragraph of Minister Bevanda's reply, it's a little bit smaller, but I'll do it like this. So, I quote Minister Bevanda's reply – In the course of the temporary financing of the Council of Ministers can make a special decision on expenditures not foreseen by the budget of the previous year, so that the expenditures of BiH institutions including expenditure referred to in paragraph 2 of this article cannot be greater than the collection of revenue collected during the period of temporary financing from indirect taxes, own revenue and transferred funds. The expenditure on this basis shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 14 of this Act, which shall provide for the use of the current reserve. Following this response, following instructions from the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Central Election Commission submitted to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury a revised proposal for operational, i.e. The BiH Central Election Commission's dynamic plan in line with the decision on the temporary financing of BiH institutions for the period January – March 2022. Furthermore, following instructions from the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, given in the latest paragraph of the ministry's response, the CEC of BiH 09.03.2022 made a proposal for a decision to approve the distribution and use of part of the funds transferred from previous years to the expenditure of the programme of special purpose in 2022, and provided it to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and the Legislative Office for Opinion, and 08.04.2022 to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption all to provide funds for the implementation of the elections in accordance with Article 11(5) of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions and in accordance with Article 1.2a of the BiH Election Law. The electoral law stipulates that the means to conduct the elections must be provided within 15 days of the date of the CEC's decision to call the elections. 4 Unfortunately, the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury on 24.03.2022 gave a negative opinion on the proposed decision, which is contrary to the instructions given by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in its response from 14/01.2022 and under which the CEC acted. The Legislative Office in its Opinion of 14 March 2022 did not state that the decision was illegal. Unfortunately, at an emergency meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers, the HDZ ministers voted against the decision to prevent it from making and providing funds to conduct the elections. The report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2020 in Chapter 11 – The financial result on page 99 is stated – that the available and unscheduled accumulated surplus income from previous years for transfer to reserves in 2021 is 39,440,086.00 KM. Under the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, the transferred surplus funds from previous years enters as revenue into the BiH institutions' budget for the following year, as indicated in the table on page 12. Reports on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2020. The report on the implementation of the budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2021 in Chapter 11 – The financial result on page 92 states that the available and unallocated accumulated surplus income from previous years for transfer to reserves in 2022 is 139,937,242.00 KM. Under the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, the transferred surplus funds from previous years enters as revenue into the BiH institutions' budget for the following year, as indicated in the table on page 13. Reports on the execution of the BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH for 2021. The above budget implementation reports show that there are surplus transfers from 2020 and 2021. According to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, income in the first quarter of 2022 is Circ. 236.900,000,00 KM, and expenditures for the first quarter of 2022 are 214.900,000,00 KM indicating that it is possible to make the stated decision, as the revenues collected are higher for the circus of 22 million marks than expenditures incurred in the first quarter, which is in line with the decision on temporary financing for the first quarter of 2022 and in accordance with Article 11 of the Act on the financing of BiH institutions. Minister Bevanda, therefore, claims in a statement from 17.05.2022 that the decision is illegal and that this is why they did not vote for it, says Minister Bevanda that they were not founded for the following reasons. So, according to Minister Bevanda, they weren't founded, according to us, for the reasons I'm about to list now. 1. Article 11(5) of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions is a legal basis for the BiH Council of Ministers to make the stated decision. 2. Minister Bevanda does not specify which member of the law was violated by the proposed decision. 3. His statement of 17.05.2022 contradicts his response to the CEC on 14 January 2022, followed by the CEC. 4. If it calls for the rule of law and respect and implementation of the Constitution and the law, why did it not make a legal decision within the legal deadlines and proposed that the BiH Council of Ministers be adopted in order to provide the means to conduct the elections, since we do not have a budget adopted. Whenever it claims that the decision is illegal, it is necessary to read the final paragraph of its response to the CEC of 14 January 2022, which refers to the CEC to act in accordance with Article 11(5), Article 17. The law on the financing of BiH institutions, which the CEC has acted on. 5 In line with everything that I have presented today, our proposal for a conclusion at the House session is: So it is up to the Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Council of Ministers of BiH to draw up a proposal for a decision on the allocation of funds to the CEC in 2022 to conduct the elections of 12,528,000,00 KM, meaning that it is in accordance with the CEC requirement, and the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt the above decision within 48 hours, and to make those funds available to the CEC for the implementation of the 2022 General Elections. This is one of the bases and our demands for a debate at today's House session, we'll have more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3472	Thank you. Here we heard the opening words of the applicant. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any complaints. Here we have him, colleague Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3473	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I wish that this morning when I went to this session I could explain to myself why I was actually going here, why I was invited to this session at all, why the emergency session was scheduled, I know that this is the right of the chairman, but where is the basis for its maintenance that I couldn't explain it to myself, because the key question is: Can the House of Nations order the Council of Ministers to, within 24 hours of the adoption of the conclusion, which Mr. Fazlić spoke about earlier, make a decision on the approval and distribution of the funds of 12.5 million marks on behalf of the CEC expenditure? I will remind you of the position of the House of Representatives, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, who also received the same request on the same day and at the same time found that the budget for 2022 was not adopted, that he should regulate both the funds for the CEC and the funds for holding the elections and that it does not even exist in the draft. In line with this, he assessed that the SDA Club's request at the House of Representatives was completely unnecessary and that there was no point in holding an emergency session and they acted accordingly. In the meantime, were there any other reasons why the chairman of the House of Peoples, here, led me to accept this session I don't know, but I know that we got all the information from all sides, especially now, this, while Mr. Fazlić was telling me, it's hard for me to see what the matter of budgets and the issue of finance is giving everyone the right to interpret. If you have doubts about what the finance minister is saying, then you need serious arguments about it, especially if it's a man like that, and countless times with, in front of the pay phone delegates, they've heard, a very high opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, that is, the Secretary of Resort. So, as it is, how it did not accept the House of Representatives was logical not to accept the House of Nations. It is strange that on the same day, therefore, 16.05. requests arrived and, the same request, means the SDA Club in the House of Representatives, the Bosniak Club in the House of Peoples, and that the same day was held a meeting of the Council of Ministers at which this budget was not adopted. It's all strange, strange moments where a man can't explain what's really going on here. 6 The first thing I should say is a few personal observations that are all over the place probably every one of us sitting here, that this concentration was to bring the BiH budget today we would have a budget. However, Bošnjak cared about all ways to oppose amendments to the election law, counting that the international community would help the rest of what it needed, and that means a firm faith to help them impose a budget or so. So they didn't, they knew they couldn't do it on their own. So no one was interested in the budget. Why isn't there a budget for last year or for this one now? Well, no one's interested in that. It was supposed to get what is a key national interest, which is to keep the Electoral Law as it is. So what Bošnjak do all the time has come to collect. Their unwillingness to talk about key issues about the future of this country is here and now there is an expression in the worst possible way. You can't just play with what's in your interest, I guess there's something that's the interest of all three people here, and you can't always and constantly count on the international community to give you a bigger part of it, and that you're just going to come up with it and write what you want. I guess the list of wishes you've made to the end, and I hope that this move is also bare to the end and that the international community will become aware of what this is all about. In order not to accuse us of being against the election, we have so far suggested several options on how to deal with it, not choosing, therefore, a way to accuse the SNSD of not wanting the elections, although I note that it will be our best election result, we can't wait for it to end. We have proposed several... knowing that even many are not legal, to provide 1/3 of the funds needed to hold the elections and to give the CEC, that Republika Srpska will single out the full amount, or if that is not the case for the Federation to provide the full amount, so whether there was more to be done, although we still consider it a key thing to bring the budget and that it is the only regular way and procedure. The CEC has calculated that it needs $12.5 million, I don't know if any of you have seen what the structure of that 12.5 million is, I'd love to, we've never adopted an item of 12.5 million in our lives that we don't know what its structure is. So what kind of Parliament could do that? I understand the SDA, that's where their man suggested it and they're okay with it, but we don't want to believe it's true, we want someone to present it to us that it's 12.5 million, never a lot less items could pass, let alone 12.5 million to determine it by hand. So that structure would have to be represented somewhere. Also, I would also like to highlight a few things that we have repeated so far and which is why our relationship with this institution is so. For us, this institution does not need legitimacy and is not chosen in accordance with the law, and I guess that's proof and verifiable. Its members are mostly not experts in the electoral process, but are exhibits of political parties, SDA, DF, SDS and PDP. Two of the three people in BiH do not believe in the objectivity of the Central Election Commission, but also that if the president of the CEC, Mr Arnautović, comes out and says that, with the help of the international community, it will make it impossible to participate in the election of Milorad Dodik and Dragan Čović and that Electoral Commission, should we believe, is it? A typical political statement in a place that shouldn't be politically, at, even apoliticalally entirely. Is there anything else the CEC should do except that it obviously represents the stances of Bošnjak, not the interests of an independent institution that would have to worry about holding elections. It was unusual to read this in a request from the Bosniak Club to ask for an emergency session alongside the chairman and finance minister to be present and the chairman of the CEC. Why? What is this, have we forgotten and put aside all documents that regulate Parliament's work? What, why is the CEC in charge? To conduct an election. What's the CEC got to do with security? Where's this coming from at the CEC now, so it's gonna take Mr. Chairman here to defend the CEC's views? Or maybe he feels insecure, because if he is chairman of the Council of Ministers from one nation, and the finance minister from another, then he should force a representative from a third nation, because then we can only trust. Is that what this is about? 7 In the end, no matter what we decide, it is evident that the only legal path is the one that says everything is planned, all institutions are planned in the BiH institutions' budget and that this is the only legal path, especially given that the 2021 budget has not been adopted and no measures can be proposed on this basis given that fact. So I hope we can get this job done successfully.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3474	Thank you, colleague Majkić. The next one was registered by counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3475	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. BiH has a problem because it has no adopted budget. Once, in the 2010-2014 term, we adopted budgets two, three days before the New Year, for the next year, they were clapping criticism at the time why you were doing it in the last few days of the year. Now imagine what we have as a case. For the first time in 2021, we haven't had a budget, and here, we don't have a budget for 2022. I think it's a difficult diversion towards all people in BiH. In 2020, BiH and the whole world faced an unprecedented pandemic, we needed the budget as never before and in that year, imagine, not being prepared for 2021. We need to be realistic and tell what the facts are. First, there is one serious threat here, and this is a threat to the suspension of the elemental human rights of the citizens of BiH. So we have a threat of taking away the electoral right of people in BiH and it is a huge danger to the democratic system and to the rule of law. kolegica Majkić says no one was interested in why the 2021 budget was not adopted. That's not true. You are the witnesses in this room that personally at least six meetings of the Finance and Budget Commission, I started each session, here, and my colleague Fazlić is also a witness, with only one proposal, let us, as the Commission, adopt the conclusion that we have information on who is responsible for why we do not have a budget. Six sessions each, at the beginning of this session of the Commission, I propose and six times you vote me, you won't adopt a conclusion that we get information on why we don't have a budget. Without prejudice to whose responsibility it is, my proposal was that the Minister of Finance and the Council of Ministers very well state the reasons, given that it is one of the most important laws that every parliament in the world brings, and so is ours. Who's responsible for why BiH didn't have a budget in 2021 and why isn't it in 2022? Does anyone know the answer to that question in this country? It's a fundamental question that we now have to resolve. Last June, the SDP proposed an emergency procedure in the House of Representatives of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Finance Act and adopted the House of Representatives. The addition to Article 11 of that Law, attitude (7) reads - during the temporary financing it is allowed to finance the maintenance of general and local elections in BiH in accordance with the BiH Election Law. Since June 15th last year, if the House of Nations had adopted it, they would have had no problem today. So today we have to tell people who has political responsibility, but there is another dimension. The second dimension is criminal responsibility. Be careful, in order for the BiH budget to be adopted, here is the finance minister, as far as I know the Fiscal Council Act, the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, and it seems to me that the Council of Ministers Act in one article treats this, it is about 12 steps or phase. Mr. Bevanda, it all begins, is it that, during the year until 31 January, you direct instructions to all 8 budget users and then according to the laws that I have stated, there is an exact budget calendar, which is to be done by the end of March, by mid-April, when that planning department is, and so on, so that in June, we have the opinion of the Fiscal Council, the opinion and the Ministry of Finance, then the Council of Ministers, and then by 1 October, we have the draft budget. A further part of the procedure is known, the draft proposed by the finance minister, on October 1st, 15th, as I remember the Council of Ministers, sets out the proposal, or the draft sends to the BiH presidency which must end by November 1st, I am talking about what legal obligations are, and then it was left to the Parliamentary Assembly all November and December in both homes and two readings to adopt the budget for one year. I am making this brief review because I am asking and expecting now from the Council of Ministers that someone finally responsible for this speaker now confesses and says – in this chain of organs, bodies, procedures for adopting the budget, who made the stalemate? I have an answer to that question, but I wouldn't give it before I hear what the BiH Council of Ministers say.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3476	Thank you very much. Comrade Izetbegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3477	Good morning, everyone. A few comments about holding and financing elections. So, the Dayton Peace Agreement says the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly, namely us, is to adopt each year the budget that is the basis for financing the elections. Protocol 1. The European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms says that each country is obliged to organise elections every four to five years. The law on the financing of BiH institutions says the Council of Ministers is obliged to deliver the draft budget by 15 October, the Presidency of the Budget Proposal by 1 November, the Parlamometer Assembly, or we, the Budget Act by 31 December of the current year. This, of course, precedes the adoption of a fiscal framework that was unfortunately adopted only on 30 March 2022. We heard Mr. Minister Bevanda say he now needs a certain period, here, which has already been going on for almost two months to really budget in view of this fiscal framework and conjecture. However, of course, Mr Bevanda is a member of the Fiscal Council, he well knows what real frameworks are and what was realistic expected to be adopted in the fiscal framework. So he could have had a quite solid draft budget in advance last year, which was then completed and proposed within seven days. BiH's criminal law in its 150th article says that denying voting rights is in any way indicative, that it is a criminal act and that punishment can be imposed up to three years in prison. We also have a copy of Minister Bevanda with the CEC, his letter of 14 January, which I already mentioned in which he called for Article 11(5) of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions as a solution... Then he changes his mind. We heard today and a discussion about how to trust Minister Bevanda, but the Council of Ministers did not seem to trust him, but suggested exactly the budget he stopped as an illegal, therefore, SNSD personnel. And then it's said that the Bošnjak are guilty because they're working against the law, against the Convention, against the Constitution, because there's a future crisis in this country that's going to cost us the departure of hundreds of thousands of young people, so, one flossule or phrase that keeps repeating itself. I'm going to tell you this, all of what's been done in this country for the fourth year has been created in the coordination and kitchens of two parties. So you're the perpetrators of it here and you'll be the accomplices to leaving these young people. You'll remember what I'm saying today, when we miss pensions in some time ahead of us, where they won't have anyone to earn a pension for people who are doing this sort of thing in this country and their people and that youth, you know, because these goals won't be achieved. It's not the Bošnjak, of course, because they insist on the Constitution, the law and everything else. It's our 9th fault we didn't accept the election law proposed by HDZ, and he wanted to be supported by the SNSD. So, we should have adopted an Electoral Law that is anti-constitutional, which ignores all the European Court of Human Rights rulings, which ignores everything the OSCE, OHDIR, the Venice Commission, and that was, in your opinion, a solution. That's what we should have suggested, we had it 15, 20 days ago here in this room, that's what we should have suggested, and that's why we're being punished. So it's our fault that we didn't accept such an ultimatum and that you're doing this to this country and to its peoples and to its citizens. That's it. I invite you to get serious, to stop doing this to yourself and to others, you know. They don't all have 5,000, 6,000 marks of pay, there's a lot of unemployed. Don't do what you do, don't get involved in these activities, work by the Constitution, by law, make it possible for people to do what is their right. Don't stand between the people and their rights. Let them pick whoever they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3478	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr Dragan Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3479	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Izetbegović's injury, instead of giving us some quality contribution to what counterpart Bećirović said before, Izetbegović out with pamphlets of guilt for something. I understand that the campaign has begun, that one Bosniak candidate for member of the presidency we heard, now the other has come, I don't know how many more there will be, whether they will be on occasion from this pay phone or someone else speaking. I appreciate that, that's all right, but you can't violate the Rules of Procedure for that and talk about how two people, whatever you mean by those two, have been making BiH obstructions for the last four years. If someone is making obstructions in BiH in the last four years, it is your party colleague Izetbegović. On countless examples of the work of the county or cantonal authorities, entity authorities, to this level of BiH. So I'm going to ask you to try today, if we really want to work something out, we're doing business, not using a pay phone to run a campaign that's already started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3480	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Lidija Bradar.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3481	Thank you. I welcome you all very much. Well, here, since we came to this stage to discuss this today, it means in principle that I read and read the conclusion of my colleague Fazlić, who is not what we got in the call for today's session and the agenda, there was a Council of Ministers saying something, and now we're ordering the Minister of Finance. So, I experienced it in a way that the country's principally highest legislative body requires the Council of Ministers, i.e. Minister 10 finances to break the law, and to make a decision beyond the law, which was spoken of by counterpart Bećirović and reminded us that the law should be amended so that it could come into effect, so that such a decision could be made. So we're right when we claim that the decision made by the Council of Ministers is illegal and is rightly the minister of finance who has been claiming it all along. It is very interesting that if the Ministry of Finance in the year and at a time when we have inflation about 15% and if you have multipliers costs, someone can calculate how much he can do at this time without the help of the Ministry of Finance to conduct the election. We also heard here that, that we are violating fundamental human rights, means the same as not violating the fundamental human rights and the Croatian people. We here, therefore, have the right to individuality in BiH passed on to the rights of collectiveity and power from the people and belongs to that same people. As for the chronology of the budgetary cycles and what we should have done for, I don't know how you don't know, so we had the 2020 budget, so then the whole 2021 years apart from, here, we know what the problems were, there was no fiscal framework. So, at one of our sessions, we asked when we got the information, it's not this fiscal framework that doesn't need to be budgeted, it's the basis for determining the budget, because the circumstances and the economic crisis, because of the consequences that are happening on the market, are happening on our own. We in the procedure have several laws that have a significant impact on the revenue side of the budget. Now I just don't know what it is that makes it without these laws, and at what rate the Minister of Finance as a director, not a pronoun, but a budget editor, that's what I call it, could be referred to. What we have, which means we have a fiscal framework since 30.03.2022, is now to propose a document of the indicative budget. Based on the draft budget document, the budget or the Law on the Budgets of BiH Institutions and the financing of international commitments should be proposed and the way of the budget is, of course, the way it is. I think we need to spend more energy to get an emergency budget because he, the Central Election Commission is just one of 70 users of the budget and I don't see at this point, maybe someone seems to have to break the law, I think that the way we behave and that those who are, all of this work in BiH, and all the messages we're listening to here today are the same at this session, everyone should be held accountable and not that, someone's fundamental human right to go to elections but someone's legitimate human right to be chosen and to have the opportunity to be represented legitimately. Maybe that's some people's priority here. So, I can tell you here, I happen to have the chronology of all events and everything the Ministry of Finance did in 2021 to get me a budget for 2021 and everything they did to get me a budget for 2022. I think that only today can we conclude that the Council of Ministers hastily referred to the budget procedure, the document of the indicative budget, and then the budget for all BiH institutions to receive a budget for 2022 and thus the Central Election Verification, but all according to the law and the Constitution of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3482	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3483	Here, a colleague of Lidija Bradara brought out here the fact that she's in our request, given what I read differently, means in the original form of the demands we've filed for the session and what we're looking for right now. Basically, that's the same thing, we're just here at today's session, we're still asking the Council of Ministers for our basic conclusion, but here we've specified the role of the finance minister which, what, he's a member of the Council of Ministers, deputy 11 of the Council of Ministers, but we've just underlined what he needs to do to get this process going. As for this second part of yours that you mentioned in the final sentence, that today we just need to make a conclusion that it is urgent to adopt the budget, it is a legal category to adopt the budget. What does that mean to us in terms of the election? Does that mean in another month, in two months, there's no money, is that another game? The budget knows how to bring it, the procedures are known. A colleague, Denis Bećirović, has a law there, has a responsibility if he does not go, but here we came 5 to 12. We all talk – we want elections, we all say we want elections. Here, chance, let's show her today. This conclusion can be corrected in the sense that we further strengthen and specify it in terms of content that will strengthen the role of the House of Peoples to help, to provide funds to hold elections. So that's it. And in the end, I first expected the chairman, that the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister, Mr Bevanda, would present all these allegations of my calling for a legal basis that was the basis for him to have no obstacles to making the decision on the allocation of funds. So, you should have heard, in my opinion, this is democratic but in my opinion you should have heard the minister say – Mr. Fazlić what you said is true or not true. It's true in this part, in this section it's not true because it's one basis for us to have a debate and to come up with a quality solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3484	Thank you. A kolegica of Bradar, a correction to the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3485	Well, here, you're saying now that you've made that clear, I haven't heard it that way, if I haven't heard it, it's an apology. I'm just wondering if we've been able to direct each of the ministers at the Council of Ministers, we never see any of them, we've asked some of them in writing, we've asked for the thematic sessions and we've never held them, but some ministers at the Council of Ministers are privileged, and some of them are always obliged to be there and attend the sessions most often and should give answers to all the questions and always give them.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3486	Thank you. Debate, fellow Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3487	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome my colleagues and colleagues. It's very difficult to give some constructive discussion in this sense at least as I see where the discussion is going right now. Anyway, I want to thank Mr. Bevanda who's the only one who came here when it comes to the Council of Ministers, of course to our Secretaries who support our work, and I want to say a few things, I'm really going to try not to repeat myself in any way, but before I say anything about this subject, I want to underline two facts. I ask you that in public space, at least if you are legalists, you should stick to 12 of them, which is that CEC or SIP, however you wish, that the decision of the Court of Justice of BiH has established that it is legal and legitimate, although I may not like the composition, although even here, someone may say, there may be some statements or reports that political connotation, I hope that in the future of BiH, if we come to that stage, the commission or the CEC will be given in a way that people who work there are completely depolitised. Indeed, what I want to talk about is two things because there was a lot of at least by the Bosniaks Club of these legal bases or assumptions about why they wanted to call an emergency or emergency session today, I just want to mention two things that we didn't talk about. This is the decision to call and hold the general elections in BiH in 2022, which the CEC and the SIP adopted in 5.5.2022, where a member or Article 3 is requested or requested to provide funds for the conduct of the elections within 15 days. That deadline, unfortunately, expired in 19.05 and now we're essentially in this very strange situation, but here, to go back to the global problem that we have, I have to say a few things that have already been said, but I'm going to try to say it from one, maybe another aspect, or to shed some light on another aspect. I can't accept the fact, first of all, to bid with anyone's responsibility, including Mr. Bevanda, that doesn't mean that I'm adjudicating him if the man is responsible for something, but I have to remind you when we had a joint session of both homes, that one of the initiatives that I've submitted is actually to replace this Council of Ministers for the sake of unhappiness, among other things, because of all of this, including the lack of budget for 2021. Although I have commended some ministers in the order of all three peoples, and no matter what political parties my opinion is from, and then I am, and now I am convinced, that this Council of Ministers, I am speaking of it as a collective body, should not do it at all, but sometimes I feel that it might be better if it didn't work at all, that we don't have them, I have a feeling that we would have less problems than in these circumstances in which we are now. This does not mean that a part of the minister really does not do his job honestly and honestly. However, what I'm saying is, it's inexplicable that 19 months we've broken the deadline, if you take it as the tenth month of '19. Until today, we are unable to adopt the 2021 budget. We've been through the budget deadline for 2022 for seven months. I've even read some statements in this regard and even from Mr. Bevanda where he tried to explain how many times and how he addressed the Council of Ministers to bring the budget. So, I really have no intention or intention here to determine any individual responsibility, but I ask you to understand that this is the situation in BiH where we haven't had a budget for two years I haven't heard it in any EU country and that the executive body has remained in power. This isn't my people anywhere. The consequences, here, there were few speeches, I have to tell you, here's someone talking about ours, mostly young people, so if you want mature people to get more and more often, not because of economic reasons, but because of that uncertainty, expectations of war, conflict or I don't know what, since '13. Until today, believe it or not, almost a million BiH residents have evicted. And when people look at us like this, I think it's easy for them to come and think about whether or not they're going to leave, take the suitcase and pick themselves up from here. What I'd like to inform you, not to warn you, is that it would be ugly like this, and it wouldn't turn out to minimize your knowledge from that area. Given the fact that you often refer to the General Peace Agreement in BiH, I must remind you of Annex III, and this is what it looks like who didn't have a chance to see, whose title is – the Election Agreement. So this is an integral part of the Dayton Peace Agreement, in the General Peace Agreement, we are obliged to allow citizens of BiH or the peoples of BiH at least one day in a democratic way to come out and tell us what they think of us individually or, if you will, collectively. Some parts of this Agreement, I'm not going to read to you because I'm convinced that you know that, only one part of you just ignores it. Finally, if we were to take too much of your time, and given the fact that I didn't see anyone do it, I have to say that first of all, I didn't see it well, it seems to me that the 13 Bošnjak Club asked for it, I really expected the chairman of the Council of Ministers to show up, if nothing, in the context of this to explain why there is no general budget for 2021-2022. Maybe even one of the representatives of the CEC, but that's not formal. Regardless of the fact that there are no or no, I want to read you article or article 150. KZ BiH so I ask you to listen to me – who, in publishing his entrusted duties in connection with the BiH other institutions' elections in order to prevent him from exercising his electoral right unlawfully does not put him in the voter's list or delete him from voting rights, or, as far as this situation is concerned, deny him the right to vote, will be fined or fined for up to three years. I'm asking you, so I'm not telling anyone personally or individually, I'm going to wait, because nobody in BiH is going to do it any more day, possibly by the end of this month, I'm going to file a criminal report to the BiH Prosecutor's Office to determine who's responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3488	Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Bradar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3489	I would not comment on this last one, I just want to correct the wrong assumption that we have the verdict of the court to me, the court has made a decision in the first degree, and it is not a power of power, and in public these days it is mentioned that the verdict is final and it is not. So it also manipulates these data, so the court has established a decision in the first degree, and they should not be commented by the rules, nor do we know whether there will be a second-degree procedure, and they will have to be in the second-degree, nor do we know the result of this procedure, and I ask you to refrain from commenting that we have a verdict regarding the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3490	Thank you. The speaker, Mr Dragan Čović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3491	I think there are a lot of things in this ten-minute debate to say here, mostly about the urgent session initiative, but everything we've heard here isn't the first time that's been expressed, it opens up countless questions about our work and what's going on in BiH at all. First of all, here, to return only briefly to the stated position that the Central Election Commission is legitimate and legal. My kolegica Bradara said that, I think we've said it hundreds of times in public, that it's not, nor can it be, and it's one of the very problematic things that can do inconceivable long-term consequences when it comes to what we now call the democraticity of the electoral process, so we're calling on Annex III, so we're calling on the Penal Code, we're assessing the culprits for that, etc. When you appoint such a body, which should be held in BiH, past the laws and procedures, past the competitions, in the House of Representatives, across the way, and during the course of the competition, so that, here, I talked to my colleague Izetbegović several times about not doing so, so he first assured me that he did not do it, that he did not know what it was about, so later on, of course, it was clear what he did it for. And then, watch out, we waited from the institutions, the BiH judicial institutions for almost two years to give us an answer to one of these simple questions, and the answer was in two words – it was rejected. And then there's some explanation behind 14 of them. Of course, I will not comment on the judiciary, because I have never specifically commented on it, but I would like to make it very clear that it is unacceptable that someone can politically manage the institutions of the third pillar of BiH, which is now intensively doing, and these days they are sending a message to us on a television show that the policy led by the party has helped to impose sanctions on the people who led the judicial institutions. What else do you say about that? And I will stand there so that I will not fall into some of the traps of commenting on our judicial institutions, hoping that this country will have an independent and third pillar of power and that it will finally begin to work under our laws, so that we here will not read certain provisions of the Penal Code and direct criticism towards any individual or someone, not by Bog, strangers etc. As it is done today, since the campaign has already begun, you have seen our foreign minister walking around the world, what is her key statement and who is being called upon. And let me remind you that in this honorable House we have several times launched a debate on the work of the foreign minister, who today represents one family or in the worst case one party in BiH. Walks around the world looking for sanctions, convinces someone that they should do this and that kind of thing, etc. and then we try to promote that in a similar way again through the institutions of the international community in BiH, defeating all of us in BiH. Now let's just go back to what's fundamental. The mistake that is being made, here, is now trying to tell a colleague before me something about it, so please remove parole, attack an expert and professional, who lives at heart for this country, that breaking the law is extremely irresponsible and very dangerous, very dangerous. Someone who has been trying to be a professional in this country for the past ten years and an expert in this area to force them to break the law, I think whoever said it was anti-Daytonic, that it was the division of BiH, that it was the destruction of BiH, talks about teams that are saying it, whether it's domestic or foreign, it doesn't matter what it is. Perhaps later when counterpart Bevanda asks for a word, when we finish this debate, you will hear how many times he has initiated everything he has to do to make it legal, but not as some want, so I don't have to blindly respect the Constitution, so let's not blindly follow the law, but rather respect the Constitution and respect BiH's laws. You heard earlier in various comments that we needed it since the fifth month of '21. By the third month of '22. to adopt this fiscal framework. We will see how long it will take us to adopt the budget framework for '22 – '24. Because without it, there's no budget. In parallel with this, we have in the debate several fiscal laws, which have the most direct impact on this framework, the budgetary framework, yes, I am talking about the Law on Loss of Value Added, on excise duties, and I am not listing any of those laws that are in different forms, from the different promoters in our procedure. I think today our Finance Committee is going to be reviewing those laws, so they're going to make a statement. My question now to experts who love this country – how do you propose to adopt or propose a budget, while at the same time proposing different rates of VAT, the suspension of excise duties on some luxury products, in particular whether or not fuel, etc., when you know that the main part of the budget, the budgets in BiH are just bound to these items? But here today is our first priority to ensure that people can go to elections. But watch how we want to do it, first we have an illegal commission to do it, it has shown how independent it is these days in several of its statements, and then we want to give them funds illegally, and then, watch out, we have a memo from that same Central Election Commission to ask all BiH institutions, those who are so free don't know what they're going to do with themselves, that we're going to give them to work for them, so we're going to have people who are going to illegally enter the institution and do this job. And the best example of how the Central Election Commission works was in the local elections, and I'll only stick to Mostar, because for Mostar right now, the fifth, sixth and seventh months, we made one deal, and then we changed the Election Law, and then we decided to move them, so they only had elections for Mostar there somewhere in the middle of the 12th month. And then you saw 15 of what the election process looks like and what it's doing, I'm going to say dominantly now, in a circle of parties that are today calling for transparency, for the democraticity of the process, etc. I think there have been more than a hundred harsh violations of the electoral process for the convictions of each type, including criminal responsibilities about stealing votes, changing the place of residence for the purposes of the electoral cycle, recasting ballots and my question was now and then, and I am now talking to two institutions who want to make public the introduction to the electoral process, one is the Central Election Commission, it was in a similar or the same constituency as today – what has she done about it, who amnesty of responsibilities back then? Because it was thousands, you only watch out in one local environment, thousands of frauds that were found when they found out that they were cheating on each other more favourably, so it came out. Or secondly, the second institution, it's the institution that's been following those elections under the spell. I was in Mostar at the time, and I followed their action until one or three o'clock in the afternoon, my question is out loud to them – what were they silenced after four hours or five hours, no statements were made until late in the evening, which opened all those polling stations where it was controlled by Bošnjak in Mostar in order for the estimated turnout to catch up and prevent, be careful, that the Hrvat was then the Mayor of Mostar City or that the Hrvat had a majority in the City Council? But this is just like a relationship with the Central Election Commission that we say is ligitive, legal and that we expect some independence from it, and what it tells us these days, if someone anti-Daytonic works, and this is all in someone's opinion anti-Daytonic activity, they're going to stop him from running, then he's even talking about my name, that I'm not talking like that. I'm afraid that we've fallen into, I say, a big trap and come back to the beginning, instead of 5% of this energy that's now being spent on making some decisions past the law invested in having a budget, we should have the budget last year and this year in the same way. So I'm going to call you again, if these days the BiH Presidency has made a decision to help someone, but watch out the Presidency says I'm making a decision and suggesting to someone because the Presidency can't give it out of its means, it's clear as such, suggesting that, I don't know, for earthquake victims, certain funds are allocated. Why did this same commission, or the same Presidency, since it has two Bosniak members of the presidency, not according to the same model of constitutional authority last year and this year, exert very.... focused pressure on the Council of Ministers to reach the budget and that we are not discussing it here at all today. But that's the same policy for you, fellow Bećirović, now you're a candidate and you'll see when you get to the presidency what it looks like, and the last time you told me you tied it up to the Islamic community and the agreement, because these days the Islamic community's declared politics in BiH, when it's been said that since the four last cycles in the presidency, in one time when it was a member of the Presidency my smallness when it was, you say we stopped something from being put on the agenda. One member of the Bureau can't stop anyone from putting something on the agenda, anyone, having other instruments, you'll see business and legally how it works, how you do it. Which means that, here, and this cycle of four years goes by that those two Bosniak members of the presidency are still looking for a battery of dissatisfaction with some, because someone had previously prevented something from being put on the agenda. You've got three, four months left for that. And as far as this part is concerned, I will return only to the final thought, as soon as possible, the budget that will be sustainable, which will be built in, and it can be done very quickly, very quickly, absolutely very quickly, before, of course, the global budgetary framework, is it a law without which there is no budget, no draft budget, which will also meet the demands of those who demand a raise of wages, whether they police officers, whether they customs officers, were soldiers. All of this should be incorporated into these funds, in the budget, to bring it into line with laws that would change and concerning the fiscal framework in order to realistically assess the revenue side of the budget, which our experts can do if they want to, but let's not underestimate, we do not have executive powers in BiH that function normally, we do not have 16 BiH Presidencys that function normally, we do not have legislative authorities in BiH that function normally and of course everything is a problem. So that the trap that some are trying to get in and out of the way and to put pressure on both the Minister of Finance and all of us sitting here, if necessary, choosing who's stopping it, I'm clearly responding, so I'm going to do it again, and the last time we've commented on the Council of Ministers' decision, if it's a violation, a blockade or whatever words in BiH's political space are dominant here in Sarajevo, Sarajevo media, Sarajevo politics, to tell them very clearly, no one can ever force anyone to do it against the law and to support it, no matter what the purpose of the one who proposes such processes. In other words, HDZ representatives in the Council of Ministers first suggested that such a item of the agenda could not be on the agenda, so they said in a very clear way that they did not want to vote on such a agenda and that is something democratic, it is not a blockade. The blockade is when the SDA won't come to the House of Peoples session, sitting here, I've already explained that, and it won't come to this hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3492	It's the chairman's time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3493	You are not the one running the session, colleague Izetbegović. About the other thing about the SDA, when he came to the next session, of course it was legal, they came and said we didn't like it, most legitimately. So then they pulled the vital national interest, the most legitimate again. So, we go back to the rules of procedure, the law, and let's try to work this out, and let's go around the current, current situation, the open campaign, and get political points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3494	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3495	The chairman took himself three minutes through what the Rules of Procedure prescribes, so what others do not allow, uh, does not allow me to even comment on it, does not need to be led by Mr. Covic's sessions. You're supposed to be an example of the others, the right example, is it? So here these days we're also hearing about this phone booth from a shit HDZ that could've been very easy just if there'd been effort, will, etc. We have a budget in the long run, and then we have heard specifically who is accusing it, about all these obstructions that took place in connection with the adoption of the global fiscal framework, so, your partner SNSD, it went public. However, the SNSD says it is not a problem, but that the problem is that Bošnjak will not deliver the election law to the Croatian side. So they're defending you here, not you yourself, are they, so I don't know what I'm thinking right now, where the problem is. I went out specifically because Mr. Čović said the SDA controls the judiciary. The verdict of Sakib Mahmuljinu, the launch of dobrovoljački, here today we do not have Mr Asim Sarajlić, the sixth year he and the former SDA vice president, and therefore Secretary-General of the SDA, working 17 one job for the sixth year are in court, Novalić, every week once, twice and the SDA controls that judiciary that does it, is anyone really believing that. So, the SDA does its part, for which it was founded, warns of an anomaly in society, and when you have a sick judiciary, then it's a difficult, dangerous anomaly, it's sick, because the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council can't negotiate how he's going to set up a verdict, amnesty someone, he just needs to be shoeed, is he, can't do what he's done, people. She can't do what the D.A. did to keep her from being removed, so she hasn't been replaced by the S.A. One is the SDA, the other is the U.S., who put these people on his black list with strong reasons, for sure, not following the U.S. policy of the U.S.A., but tracking their information that is very good,
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3496	Comrade Izetbegovic's time, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3497	...about these leading D.A.'s men what, what they said putting them on the blacklists. So, by the way, I recommend you go to the courts, to the prosecution, to the Constitutional Court, to the European Court of Human Rights, ask, if you feel threatened, disproved, etc. Look for justice, don't do it through blockades, through blackmail, through what you're doing, here, for the fourth year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3498	You've seen your time planned. Next correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3499	Well, I'll try to be really brief, just two facts to point out. So I really don't challenge anyone, not to you or a colleague of the club, to make any of your political views about anyone, or about the CEC, or the SIP, that's your domocratic right. I am not an education lawyer, and as far as I know, given the decision made by the Court of Justice of BiH and the administrative dispute being conducted, that decision is final and binding and on it, and it is also certain, there is a lesson on the legal remedy that, if I am not mistaken, an article or Article 39. The Law on Administrative Disputes, so that a review of such a type of decision can be sought. At one point you mentioned, as a matter of fact, me or we defend them, as we have some personal, personal interest. I, the right to tell you, especially any person from this SIP or CEC I'm not good at, and I don't have any particular interest, this and this previous composition that's good with anyone who works for, the right to tell you, is essentially not interesting. And when it comes to this responsibility, really to say that I have a good part, and you have said that you are not satisfied with the decisions of the Court or the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, I fully agree with you, but I want to continue to believe in that institution, too, is it in my opinion that they have done their job well probably one part of us today would not be here, but unfortunately we have a situation that we have. When it comes to responsibility for article or article 150, it is not personal to anyone, I was even willing and it might be good if we had heard from Mr. Bevanda before, but I really ask you this is your responsibility, your political parties, so it can't be in this country that for two years we don't have a budget that nobody is responsible for, whether one person or ten of them is of any interest to me at all, but we really need to do what we have right now 18 to overcome whether adopting the budget for '22. A year or some other legal act, here, don't take my word for it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3500	Correction, correction of the wrong, violation of the Rules of Procedure, pardon. Comrade Fazlić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3501	Well, in this part of the Rules of Procedure's injury, I thought I'd warn you, you've really been professionally discussing it in the sense that you're dragging the session into another course. The agenda that we asked for today is to provide money to finance the General Elections, which will take place on October 02nd, 2022. You're also in your presentation only twice who came back to this topic. I ask you to go to this topic, we can open a number of other topics today. And I have to say, you've managed to turn a little session into a different stream. On the other hand, fellow Minister Bevanda, best of all, I know that he is very professional, and if anyone knows the other side of expertise and that's him, and I expect him not to draw attention to the discussion, to tell us whether these are our sources of truth, legality and all, it's our democratic right to seek the budget, so we all know what the budget is. Well, my people, so we're not going to make a budget in two months, then there's no choice, this is no choice, this is cultural, this is one, one, cultural way to avoid funding the election. So we've come, we've considered everything, we think this is a way to make it work, to keep it going. Tell us whether or not, let's discuss this subject which is today, arguments for and arguments against. I'd ask the minister to come out and stop, not to go into various issues, and we'll open this up and then we'll stay here for three hours. And please, please, chair, conduct the session, conduct the session incorrectly, give one a longer word, one, and turn away from the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3502	Now, if I don't take my word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm gonna shut up about your inaccuracies, and we're still gonna stick to the Rules of Procedure. counterpart Bećirović, correction of the wrong allegations or violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's scheduled for three minutes, here we start to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3503	Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we and everyone else here are delegates to the House of Peoples, legally elected, there is no need to mix it with anyone's candidacy. So we took an oath that we would respect the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure and work while our term of office, it's an important thing, and I think it's correct to stick to it. We need the truth today, we need facts, we don't need general phrases or any political accusations. Let's go back to the key topic which is why this session is here. Are we going to get an answer to the first and fundamental question today – who is really responsible for not having the BiH budget? Because if we had adopted a budget in accordance with the law, we wouldn't have a problem with the vote. And the second question should also be clarified if this proposal was adopted at the House of Representatives in June of last year – what is the reason why members of College 19 of the People's House did not refer this issue to the procedure for a year, and I am talking about this SDP proposal for amendments to the Funding Act? You should give an answer to that question. I have to say that no one has given any particular reasons in the discussion so now that I've come to the phone, I want to quote some specific things, I'd ask the finance minister to listen to me. Mr. Bevanda, I believe you have broken the law, you have, and correct me if this is not exactly what I'm talking about, you delivered on July 29th 2021 to the members of the Fiscal Council of BiH the document of the global fiscal balance and policy framework 2022-2024. I believe you are aware that you have broken the legal words. So that's the first concrete thing to be determined now, if it's not true what I'm talking about, let Mr. Bevanda correct me. Next, the next body that violates the legal provisions is the Fiscal Council of BiH when it received this document from the finance ministry on July 29th – do you know when they scheduled the session? December 10th, 2021. Who's sitting in the Fiscal Council of BiH? Six men and two observers. The six who can and have the right and votes are: the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the prime minister of the Federation of BiH, the prime minister of Republika Srpska, the state finance minister and two entity finance ministers. I'm running away from this empty debate right now. Mr. Bevanda, I'd like you to tell me why this meeting of the Fiscal Council was held in December. Of these six people I've listed who's to blame for not being scheduled until December? As anyone acted, because December 17th he was re-invited, and there was no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3504	Time, fellow Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3505	I want to know why there was no quorum and who obstructed that quorum? Here's Mr. Chairman interrupting me, I've had some very, very specific questions, but I respect the Rules of Procedure and the estimated time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3506	As you'll hear from more times, you'll have a chance, you've already got a minute, here's 57 seconds of three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3507	I would only ask you to carry out the sessions consistently.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3508	I'll keep trying, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3509	If you talk for three minutes longer than planned, do not interrupt the delegates in the third second.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3510	I'm not the one. I'm not the one.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3511	So, there's no need for these incursions, I said that in accordance with the time I interrupt the discussion, I asked the most concrete questions, I had more concrete things, but what is there? 20
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3512	Here, you made your contribution. Let's go to the debate, fellow Bosić, here you go. We have ten minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3513	Thank you, Chairman. And when I got the call for this session, I thought it was pointless, given that one nation's club is looking for a session, and that it's a clear position of the majority representatives of the other two nations and that no decision here will be made, nor will it be possible to agree and that is so, I mean, it will eventually be seen. But now I think this is a necessary session and a very necessary session and it's about making choices. For democracy or for the state, if there is no choice, there are no legal institutions, there is no state at the end unless there are no institutions. So, this moment is much more important than the budget story for the elections, this is the moment that will happen the day after we realize that there is no choice in BiH for any reason, we will find, if we do not want elections, we will find a million reasons to obstruct them from legal to various reasons. Here, things go around here like rain around Kragujevac, as the people say. So the question is, what is the essence of this problem that we've come to? And I think Mrs. Majkić said the essence of the problem and Mr. Izetbegović later in her discussion, failed negotiations on the BiH Election Law and that is the essence, and you reassure me, you say it is not that, and that is the case. Are we now going into a crisis where you can't see the bottom and what's going to come out of that crisis, it's a very dangerous and slippery terrain. Why won't anyone say the point? Well, because that would mean that an institution defined by the Dayton Agreement is being torn down, or an election process. On the other hand, the election process here has long been corrupt and this is not a democratic state, because in order for the elections to be legitimate there must be an independent judiciary, or there has to be a legal state that here, we'll all agree, here, whoever, as much as we disagree on anything we agree on. If there is no rule of law, no democracy, no democratic elections, and then we have what you call hybrid democracy or whatever it is that it's calling. I have received here through these discussions the answer to two questions, one I have already said, what is the essence of the cause of this problem of not adopting the budget, i.e. in some way the inability to provide funds for the conduct of the elections. And I got an answer to the second question. The second question is - who is it, how is this process stopped? I think, Chairman, that it was quite normal and correct that you gave the Minister of Finance the word to speak first, it was not correct to close the debate and then give the Minister of Finance a word without being able to delegates ask a question, I hope you won't close the debate and we'll be able to discuss it. Mr. Bevanda, if I understand correctly, here he will now correct me, the practical proposal of the budget is the procedure in his drawer or was in his drawer, which should go, which should go to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers should send it to the Presidency, which is a normal, formal draftr of the budget and then Parliament, or two homes should adopt that budget. If that's in the drawer then Mr. Bevanda is really brave, if not, which I doubt is, yes, in the drawer knowing him as a man and as an expert, then let's see what the problem is and don't kid ourselves that we'll solve the problem if we don't get to the bottom of the problem and we don't solve the essence of the problem. So now I find this debate very useful. And let me also say, this is not only a dangerous moment because of the elections, this is a dangerous moment because of the whole situation, here in mind that I listen to the president of Croatia Milanović, who mentions the formation of a third entity. It is a matter which, in my opinion, opens other issues, not only this about the elections, not around BiH, but a much wider crisis in which we can expect. So, I, if the solution is to find 21 together a way to adopt that budget as soon as possible, let's do that, precisely because of the possible consequences that can even be inconceivable from this perspective.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3514	Thank you. Debate, fellow Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3515	I would like to thank my colleague, the chairman. Honorable delegates, esteemed guests, ladies and gentlemen. I think that the time we are in and the attempts to reach a decision that achieves the goal, which is the financing of the election, is a little bit over, and I'm afraid that from today's debate we are narrowing down the space for any future debates of similar content. Serious House, one House Parliament will always look for a solution, and it will never look for a guilty one. Home relations, both sides, according to the Council of Ministers is a political relationship unless someone decides to turn homes into a court and prosecutor's office. It's a dangerous phase for all of us, and for those who aren't aware of it and for those who are aware of it, and I'm not going to argue with anyone today so there won't be any replicas, etc., I want to believe that we're all looking for a solution. If that's the task, we're looking for a solution, not the culprit, I'm convinced the elections will take place on October 5th, and I don't think that date has any chance of being moved. I am convinced that if we all show good political will and it is not correct, I did the job myself, and in the election year from Dejton to this day, the budget was always problematic. In a country like BiH, whether it's... or logic I don't know, but the budget is a political-legal act, there's a lot of policy in the budget. A lot of people ask for conversations and arrangements, it has to be a strategic and financial plan. I've never received it as a minister, six years I've done it, every time we've sent the budget official proposal, the Presidency, wanted to put its ambitions into that budget, so we've been looking for millions that don't exist, so we've wasted time and no year, I don't remember, that the budget was adopted in the calendar period, and it's true that the deadlines have been broken. What the public didn't find out, I asked, therefore, the Council of Ministers' session was not held and I am therefore sorry to be discussing the Vjekoslav Bevanda I have known for a long time. So, it hasn't been maintained, neither has the agenda been adopted, and now we want to make a decision and order someone who says that this decision is illegal. It's not correct, so it's not correct. And from Dejton to this day, it's making deep misunderstandings that we sometimes master ourselves as being in power, it doesn't matter, so because of these misunderstandings, we've come to a situation where the system doesn't work. The bigger the bigger the misunderstandings, the more the system is dysfunctional, and in such a system, we are the only country in Europe, the bigger the crisis, the more stable the government is, and the common denominator is the mistrust in BiH and our discussions are not about building trust. I'm asking you not to do that. Even after the elections, the situation in BiH will not be different if the debate changes. Well, now it's time to discuss the 2023 budget. Is the minister able to do that? It's not. So we just have to be aware of the concept that is in BiH. So what I can say is, surely there will be choices and don't today accuse each other who is for the elections, who isn't, and they will find the means. The Council of Ministers either makes a decision, or will adopt the budget, is our responsibility only when we get the budget, but why are we loaning, is not the first time in BiH's history that they have been held on the basis of entity funds. We may have the following here, the situation that, I don't know about the official offer, to have Republika Srpska say – here we will give the funds tomorrow or that the Federation, the same sources of funds, from the BiH citizens' taxes, are the elections for BiH's levels of government. So, either one or the other, I don't think the third solution is going to be except that we're going to fight here, accuse each other, and we're going to contribute to the move. So, all I see is that the budget is adopted, but it's too late. Let the funds be borrowed, they will be returned to 22 budgets, but let us once overcome that indifference in BiH. Her success requires us all, both entities, and a common level, and cantons, etc. When we win this weakness, who's the most important, and we're all important, there'll be funds in time, there'll be budgets, etc. I don't need it, I've been through it, nothing the minister can explain, it's true that calendar deadlines have been broken, and we've sat down today, the minister has come here to listen to the debates, but our legal drafter of the budget is the Presidency. Hey, guys, whoever comes to us, we can ask him for whatever we want, we can say he's guilty, it's gonna be a criminal responsibility, it's gonna be this, it's gonna be that. We came today to look for the culprit, as far as I could see, not the solution. If we're looking for a solution, there will be solutions. This Parliament must act in accordance with the law to win the budget, to make a decision. Whether the Council of Ministers will forward it in seven days' time to the Presidency, and the Bureau is looking for an emergency procedure, I don't know, if it's urgent and no one mentions the elections being held, let the ministries get in touch and get the funds back legally. I'm very surprised that no one... In 2007, when the president of Republika Srpska died that there was no funds in the budget at the time, elections were not scheduled, so Republika Srpska provided funds. Has anyone been rebelling from the state level? It's not. Why now is the problem if it is mentioned that there is a mechanism that is not illegal and I will never sit here, standing up for any anti-zoonical decision. And I think the public needs to know that the Council of Ministers' session was held and no agenda was adopted, and here it was wanted to send a message that a guilty party is being sought, so to God, the Hrvat blocked the election, it's not true. No agenda adopted. The minister says it's illegal. It's his responsibility and can't tell him, at least I won't be the one, it's the right decision, you'll adopt that decision. If there's a chance to make a legal decision, let them make it tomorrow. Why would they make someone work in accordance with the law? And I think you, let's be correct until the end, our relationship with Vjekoslav Bevanda, and that was while I was Minister and Chairman, and one and the other House is political. I've been able to look for a minister's shift as chairman. So, it just can't. So let's look for a solution, and I think the solution is either to adopt the budget or to provide the funds in a different way, there is an offer. The elections are not controversial, unless the most dirty political campaign is entered, that the election will be, and that some political options want to be placed on the pillar of shame. It won't go away. It won't go away. So it's not true that they're threatened, that they're holding elections, and it's not true that there's no funds, but they have to be reached in a legitimate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3516	Thank you. We have corrections to the wrong quote, colleague Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3517	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is twice in discussions, first of my colleague Majkićka, and now Mr Špirić mentions the possibility of borrowing from the Republic of Serbia or the Federation, or financing the elections whether from the Republika Srpska or the Federation, better said than the entities. I didn't react for the first time, and now I feel the need to say it. I will not doubt the good intentions of yours, but this is a very dangerous conclusion who can appreciate it, whoever respects BiH institutions, this is exactly the opposite, regardless of what the best intentions are, because after all, firstly by law, the state is obliged to provide elections and no one else, not entities, not cantons, not even the international community, at least I think. Let's just secure the election of whoever's legally indemnified. We would be inclined, if this is done, to say the following -- here you see, the BiH state is in no condition to organise the elections or what else. Therefore, I appreciate that this intention must not be implemented at all. I haven't just heard from you here, I've heard from some of the Federation and others lately. This is my attitude, and I think it's a dangerous intention, no matter how well-meaning it is. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3518	Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3519	I want to correct one thesis Mr. Špirić here is trying to tell us in a nice way, which is that we're attacking someone, that we're accusing someone and that this session is meant to be someone guilty, accused, blamed on him or something. Absolutely not, this is a legitimate, legal request from the Bošnjak Club to, where we addressed the finance minister as the most responsible, where we have in a well-intentioned way presented some of our legal vision of things and some possibility based on a legal solution to fund the elections. The only thing we're waiting for, we all know what the budget is, we all know what the flaws are, we know all of this, here, Munib took away some of my discussion and thank him, I might be a little bit sharper what it means when entities fund it. So all we're asking is for the finance minister to come out here and make it clear – your allegations are correct or incorrect. They're incorrect for that, that and that reason, we at the Council of Ministers can or can't, absolutely nothing, and that we have, to be fair, to go further into discussion. Some further stories, who's guilty, who's accusing someone of the election, fellow Špirić, so you fantastically this is our lecture here, these aren't students. We absolutely don't need to distract everyone we want elections, at least declaratively, let's show them today. Let's give an answer, here, the minister says to adopt the budget as soon as possible when it is operational and when the funds can be allocated to the CEC, does this satisfy the CEC, does that satisfy the law? Can't it, can't it? de me open these things, and this is what, what, entities, so come on, we all know politics here, this is where all the people who've been through some things have been chosen. So, please, colleague Špirić, we're looking for a solution, as you said, but to be honest, we're looking for him.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3520	Time. Okay. kolega Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3521	My intentions are always when I speak from this pay phone with pure and best intentions, and I thought I wouldn't cause a replica. I said we have to do everything we can to make the choice. Since it's already late if there's a budget in five, ten days, you all know what I know, that the Council should adopt, that these in the Presidency, that the Presidency should come back, that both of us at home, we must wait for the House of Representatives, that it is a procedure and we must respect it. Whether it pleases or not, I don't know, but if there's another solution, I don't mind. I'm not asking you to accept it, I'm saying there's a solution that's in accordance with the law. Maybe I'm saying that there are public appearances, maybe that's not the point, here's some Federation providing funds, we're not going to say a word. Borrow temporarily, if there is no political agreement not to jeopardize the election, if any. If the solution to the adoption of the budget... is more time-friendly, we're up for it, too, but let's look ourselves in the eye. Don't look for the culprit, we're looking for a solution. We have to say today whether the adopted budget will be in a month, is it too late to hold elections? If it's too late, does 24 have an alternative solution? So we're looking for the best solution in the world to bring the country into a situation where it is, let's look ourselves in the eye. And is always the best solution regarding the nation, each other or the third, and? Where's the land? No, I don't give political lectures, it's not my intention, but I do know when you were just at the minister's place what was done to me about the budget. So let's be aware, if there's a time diapazone that satisfies without moving the date, we're up for it. If borrowing is in accordance with the law, someone should say it again. Or if there's someone who wants to lend it to us, I'm up for it. But you people here want something that's not possible right now to smooth out. Isn't Republika Srpska part of BiH a colleague of Fazlić? Is it or isn't it? Are these smelly assets there, are they citizens' funds, are the Federation funds that can also be used if they want to borrow funds? So I'm not saying they will, but if that's the solution, and it was the 2007 solution, I'm warning you now. So the method was used, no one challenged it, no one said it was against the law. And the insolent insistence that we now say the minister is guilty either of the Council of Ministers, or both of them are guilty and guilty of a lot. The culprits of this situation in which the country is located are many, but let's look for a solution. Again, I apologize, I don't call for replicas, if the budget is possible, we're in, if an alternative solution that hits the goal, we're back in. And don't honor us that we're against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3522	Here, time. Thank you. Now, there's a replica. Correction of the wrong alleged colleague Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3523	Oh, I won't really, just two things to underline Mr. Špirić's total exposure, it's a peaceable tone, and a man really looks at it, and it's obvious that he wants to offer a solution. However, two things I must correct, at one point he said that we should find a solution that, conditionally speaking, will satisfy us here. We do not satisfy each other here, we need to please the citizens of this country and the people of this country, not our political interests. It's the first thing, the second thing, thank you very much, since you were the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, and I, when I was talking, feel like I was being told that you were talking to me in terms of finding the culprit. I'm not talking about guilt, please, I'm talking about responsibility. Well, no one can bring a budget for 2021 and no one can answer my people. kofol... and that doesn't apply. Well, there's nothing in the kids' game, so we're halfway through this calendar year, nothing again. So my people need to learn responsibility and I said in my presentation, I'm going to wait for a certain period of time, whether it's going to be through the budget, the adoption of a whole or another way, I don't know. I want this country to know who is responsible for this problem, was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, whether the Council of Ministers as a collective body, or any individual. And to Mr. Bevanda, don't defend him from me, I'm with a man I have the opportunity and the honor to cooperate and on many occasions I've given him in this professional sense many compliments and one other thing very briefly. I am pleased that you mentioned the BiH Presidency, either as a member or as Article 5.3f, they are proposing a budget and they are co-responsible with the Council of Ministers as well, and we cannot even absorb them in the whole of this situation their responsibility. And their role in all this is very important, not now, but for the previous year. 25 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3524	Let's move on with the corrections of the wrong quote. A colleague, Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3525	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What Mr Špirić mentioned, fellow Špirić, I was very decadent and clear, so it makes perfect difference to me whether it's Republika Srpska or the Federation, I'm talking about entities, for me it means the principle is unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable. Maybe someone else sees it, but I see it and I see it too seriously, just as I find it unacceptable that someone from the International Community is going to offer, it's the same thing I'm talking about, it's denying the state of BiH, in every... but I didn't doubt the well-meaning of looking for a solution, that. That's why I'm mentioned, this proposal I've heard from at least two, three, proposals in the Federation in very responsible positions, so I didn't go to one side. However, I think the same thing is political shortsightedness at the very least. As much as I'd like to help, I'd like to, and thank you personally for your help, but that help is better in some other way, uh, for other purposes, and not for the election. Here, we'll hear from Mr. Bevanda, that someone just tells me clearly and decadently, what's in the law, who's in charge of the election to organize. Loud and clear only, the BiH state. No, no one else, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3526	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3527	I just want to go back to the topic of today's session, so I'm not saying again, the theme of today's session, I think we're moving away from leading different topics, but I can't stay out of the public, the answer to Mr. Špirić, I'd move a tone of discussion, a democratic tone, this question, don't I know that Republika Srpska is in BiH? Well, I know, we all know that, and I'm glad to hear it from you, I mean honestly and honestly. And here, what my colleague Munib Jusufović said, we insist on respecting the law, who is funding the elections, and we expect Mr Bevanda, he will decide to address us anyway. We have the Finance Commission, counterpart Majkić is anxious to finish important questions for BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3528	Thank you. Now we're in the debate again. Comrade Nović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3529	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to tell you that I really thought today we'd get an offer for some solution to the question we're talking about. First of all, I don't know what we expect from Mr. Bevanda, here's to mention his name 26 and me. If you remember one or two sessions ago, Mr. Bevanda came out here and spoke back in detail for two years why there was no budget in 2021, and then 2022 and it would be good to look at the stenogram because he was exactly date and numbers talking about it. I don't believe he can bring up something new now, I'd love to, because I'll compare it myself if he does, when he said it then and today, and unless, unless there's something in the last, let me say, a month or two days. You see what kind of delegates we are here, people, however you like, elections are something you know, elections are something that's been prescribed long ago and it's not since yesterday. We knew about the election last year and this year, so did we do anything from the new year, to today, here, that I wasn't going to last year anything, so we're having this problem as we're having problems with it today. It was natural to go to this house like that. We're not, we're not, and of course, it's clear to us a lot of people here or everyone, why now we're just formally probleming this issue. I also expected from the promoter who asked for today's emergency session if it already makes many arguments that all this could and should have been made, that there was no illegality and that I expected anything else but today to offer a draft decision that we would adopt here and propose to the Council of Ministers if you already wanted a solution, which is in accordance with the law and regulation because we have proposed a mass of laws that are unconstitutional in this same House. We didn't do it today, and now we're asking Mr. Finance Minister, or the Council of Ministers, to resolve this issue. But you see, the new fact I've heard here for the first time today, that even a session of the Council of Ministers, that it's not true that it was held on, were denied funds. It's a whole new thing in public. Why are we hiding it, why no one in the public, nor have I read a statement from the Council of Ministers, that the session was held on the phone, but no agenda was adopted, and not that it was adopted on the agenda, that no decision on the financing of the elections was adopted. These are two huge differences that create further public confusion, why are we doing this? I don't think I can really understand that we're at that stage in this country. A lot of what I would have to say and I would say when it comes to election law or at least the integrity of the electoral process, as modernly those who sent us this Law say, and we need to adopt, and how there have been discussions and why it happened, etc., but it's not the time to talk about it here right now because it would take away your time needlessly. You see, what I at least heard in person today, and all of you here have heard, all of which, by the way, of providing funds, speak deeply or strongly about what problem BiH is in. Here are the major, difficult, political problems of conflict within BiH that we either want to solve or we will not solve. I'm not sure we're ready for open dialogue, that we're ready for all the calm consciences, the calm heads to sit down and talk. Now, this is the institution and this House of Representatives in which we were to open or open up one day all these questions about disagreement within BiH, and only then talk about some other issues. So where is this reality, where are the conversations, etc., etc.? Do we here think that only individuals are guilty, that they are just certain political parties, and we are not ready to talk together? We're talking here today a lot of things are mentioned at least, political, criminal responsibility, etc., we're going here today. This House, it is neither competent nor political, and I will not speak of a criminal, any responsibility. Of course, it's on some other organs and there are no innocents when it comes to justice. On this point, a special dialogue should be opened, when the country is one day ready to hold a debate on BiH's judiciary, then it will be called in the true sense of the BiH state. All the while we've been fooling ourselves and accusing each other of who has, listen to this, it's a tragedy that we're accusing each other of who has a greater influence on the BiH judiciary. It's a tragedy of this country, whatever any of us think it is, instead of doing everything we can to make sure that no one has any influence like no one should have any influence on the CEC, here's nothing more about it or I'm talking about it, because too much has been said about it. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3530	Thank you. There are no corrections to the wrong allegation, no replicas based on violations of the Rules of Procedure, no more reports for discussion, here is the time to ask Minister Bevanda to direct us to a few of his reflections on the '21 budgets. For '22. on proposals that have been made by the Council. I apologize, however, my colleague Bećirović, I will only ask my colleague Bećirović to respond in due time. Correction, i.e. the violation of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3531	I want to act preventively on the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. If you intended after Mr Bevanda and his address to conclude the debate then it was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only, therefore, to remind you when Mr Bevanda is finished we have the right
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3532	It's not your job, though.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3533	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3534	It's not your job, there's someone who's here together, interprets the Rules of Procedure and everything else, and don't guess what anyone's gonna do, you have no reason to.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3535	I'll be glad we can continue the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3536	I didn't say that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3537	All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3538	Excuse me, that colleague Bevanda, come out and give your reflection, although you have said it several times in this session, you have repeatedly responded to the public through Council of Ministers meetings and we are all more or less familiar with each other. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3539	Thank you very much. My education and lifestyle make me wish everyone successful work. I'm prepared and I don't know how much time I have to format, so I'm going to try the most direct things to answer and I'm not going to be political, I'm not going to do anything political, I hope, uh, say and threaten what I'm saying. First of all, it's true that the Council of Ministers' session wasn't held, so everyone knows that, I don't know who's making the announcements, as it happens, was a phone session. The phone session, no matter what session the phone is, the rest of the Rules of Procedure regulates that the first statement on the agenda is being made, and we simply did not get enough number, there was not enough vote to discuss the subject matter of the agenda. It's insisted that no matter what, but the facts are, they have stenograms, and since the session was held through moly telphony I have records, so that they can talk whatever they want, I know what happened. I'd like to try this first on Mr Bećirović's specific questions. First of all, I'm glad that I can be here and no matter what the story is about Bevanda, it's much more pleasant to watch it than what I've been warned that in so many hours someone's gonna turn up on the TV screen and spit on me, and that's all part of that - the Age will crush you. So what you said, Mr. Bećirović, that chronology is all true, so I can't say incorrectly... that's true. Mr Nović is the only one of the debaters with you remembered the session and it was held on 24.03. this year when, after the conclusion of both homes, the BiH Parliament's College is tasked with making information about the adoption of the budget. And that's when I, uh, lined up all the stuff and answered, so that's it. I'm going to do it in short, because you really have all that material, is it required and the material delivered, I know it was delivered. So, as far as the institution's budget is concerned, I'll try, Mr. Bećirović, and you all give just a few things, maybe I'll do it again somewhere, but this one don't mind. So we are on temporary financing already sixth quarter according to the Council of Ministers' quarterly decisions on temporary financing under the '22 Budget Act. A year. The Ministry of Finance has been trying everything, so last year and this one to get us out, and you could testify to my statements, uh, to get to the budget, is the only budget document that regulates everything and it's hard to bring, but that's why there's a long debate on its form and content. And I'll just say, I'll say a few things that are in some things and repetition... said 24.03. Steps needed to adopt the BiH budget, short-lived. The first is the adoption of the global fiscal balance and policy framework, the prescribed obligation of the Fiscal Council Act, which was passed by you, I do not personally say you, but this House and it regulated the way in which all the budgets were adopted in BiH. For me it was a terrible thing that the simple law was in this year when the election of the Fiscal Council Law was broken, the budgets, it prescribed that the budget of the BiH institutions or state, then these entities, etc. Everyone's got the budgets, and this is all that's left, I think, for theater shows. So, it is true, Mr Bećirović, and that was the question, the Fiscal Council is made up of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is chaired by the Fiscal Council, made by me as Minister of Finance and Treasury, made by two entity prime ministers and made by two finance ministers. The decision-making process requires five votes "for". It is true that the deadline for the adoption of the global fiscal framework is 31.05 in the year preceding the financial year. The second, meaning, under the Law on Finance and the Fiscal Council and these laws which regulate it, is the adoption of the documents of the indicative budget for a three-year period. It is adopted by the Council of Ministers, it contains the institution's planning activities for a three-year period, the upper limit of the institution's expenditure is established, and represents the preliminary draft budget for next year. And now we are going to operate on the adoption of the Law on 29th Budget of the BiH Institutions, the draft law adopts the Council of Ministers, sends it to the BiH Presidency for adoption, the BiH Presidency is the constitutional legislator of the Budget Law, after the Bureau determines the draft budget, it goes to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. The final adoption is, therefore, for the sake of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I answer thematical questions again, and I will try again in peace and fact. So the Budget Act of '21. A year, because maybe it's the cause of all the problems, the evil, the bad vibrations and that's when it started. The fiscal council of BiH The global fiscal balance and policy framework in BiH for the '21st period. Until '23. The year adopted another day on September 18th, 1920. It is true that it was exceeded because the deadline was 31.05, as I said in 2020. The Council of Ministers is the Document of the Framework Budget of the Institutions for the period '21-'23. Only the 16th 12th deadline was 30.06. The Council of Ministers adopted the Bill on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2021 on 18.02. The BiH presidency reached its conclusion on 11th of last year, which returned the draft law to the Council of Ministers to plan funds to combat the pandemic of the coronal virus, COVID-19. The Council of Ministers adopted a revised budget draft for 2021 on 25 March 2021. The BiH presidency has reconsidered, and in 23.06, it established the draft budget law for the '21st. The year, the deadline was 01.11.2020. The draft budget law for 2021 was adopted at the 28th session of Parliament's House of Representatives, held on 27.04. and the Budget Law was never adopted in the House of Peoples, this is for last year. As for the budget for this year, the deadline for the adoption of the global fiscal framework was 31.05.2021. The Ministry of Finance referred to several times the emergency for the adoption of the global fiscal framework to the Fiscal Council, the letters were 17.11., 20.01, 14.03. etc. etc. The Fiscal Council adopted the Global Fiscal Balance and Policy Framework for 2022-2024 on 30.03.2022 in nine months from its adoption on the Fiscal Council. The Ministry of Finance at the last stage is currently drawing up a draft document of the indicative budget, and this is me... the indicative budget for '22-'24. and at the same time we're doing the Budget Act in '22... year. No, I don't answer to you, Mr. Izetbegović, but neither did Mr. Bosić, who asked if the budget was in the drawer. I don't have a drawer, so there's nothing hidden that stands, and procedures are known and I respect them. To get to something all these participants need, I guess I do, so I don't have to repeat what needs to be done and what's done. As far as the Central Election Commission is concerned, I'm not going into this debate at all. Therefore, in the temporary financing regime, the approval of their expenditure programme which has not been established by the Budget Law may be determined by the Council of Ministers by a special decision. The SIP has proposed to the Council of Ministers a decision on the approval of funds for elections that are not in line with the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. And now let's break this part of that darkness, and I can multiply everything, give it, and you all know it, a couple of times, Mr. Fazlić, you said, we have information, I know who's serving you with information, who's giving you what, so I'm surprised, we finished the report on the implementation of the 2021 budget a few days ago and referred it to the Council of Ministers so that it could go to Parliament and here you know what it contains and what it says and everything else. The accumulated funds are not inventions and are not quotes, there are 34 million or as many as for 2020, they accumulate from year to year, since the BiH budget has been transferred and they have their own purpose, which is determined by budget, point. What can't go beyond the global framework, can't, what's in the global context is the ultimate word given by the Presidency, so this. 30 If there is absolutely no evil in our conduct, I will only quote to you what you should read, at least when you are with all the excuses you have said, it is not Bevanda's fault and we know that he is good. So, our last opinion, which was nice, means, in 15.03. and 24.03., I submitted the report to you here, and in 15.03. we answer to the last of this SIP, and that I would not, uh, give it, because you probably all blacked out what doesn't suit you, and in the end, I'm going to read – we appreciate that the Central Election Commission is not adequately understanding the suggestions of the Ministry of Finance that have been given in our previous acts in relation to the issue of financing the elections, namely, that the 2020 funds cannot be made available without the Council of Ministers' decision, and not that they can't be made available at all. This memo came, I think, ten quiet, uh, from the CEC where it is asked of Minister Bevanda.... Minister Bevanda is a topic in the media, and I, before entering the Ministry, know already on which paper or in which media I will read that Bevanda has been directed, and that he has not yet responded, and has not even gotten into hands. And the last point of this opinion is — The following facts set out in point 2. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury cannot support the request of the Central Election Commission of BiH on the Proposal for a Decision on the approval, distribution and use of part of the transferred surplus revenue from previous years on behalf of the expenditure of the programme of special purpose in 2022. I have this all perfectly normal for a number of reasons, and most of all because of this sentence where my friends and not from Mostar told me – Vjeko your papers together and watch out for yourself. That's why I'm safe and I'll always keep this, so you both will and the Presidency at will and the SIP at will and the law enforcement and everything else. It would not be the first time decisions are made against the view and opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, both in Parliament and the Presidency. It's our job to write professionally, and we're not allowed to enter politics here, and we're not going to tie up any of this, so we didn't tie anything to the election, and in 30.03, it's only the first item, or the action, that's being fulfilled, the Global Funding Framework has been adopted. And now to tell you directly, Mr. Bećirović, I didn't say for nothing that the Fiscal Council made up six members, five decisions needed. Why aren't the sessions held? There was no quorum, they were all guilty except Minister Bevanda, he was at every session where the Fiscal Council was held. I told the representatives of the entity and the chairman, however they agreed, that we had a first step. You said, Mr. Izetbegović, that he could, that I could have guessed. So who's going to suggest that you're going to be waiting for something for nine months? So, I'm not suggesting, I'm working, I'm not afraid of any responsibility and criminal responsibility, and what's empty about the Council of Ministers, Bevanda is there, I guess my penance, I have a commitment to this House and I will be there, and no, I won't hide and everything you've said and said, and I hope that I'm also on specific issues, she was, there were a few concrete questions, we were... a document in the final phase, we're going to refer, so, the DOP in, this as it is called, the Council of Ministers, if it's not already addressed, after its adoption, hopefully very soon, and we'll determine the budget and direct it in the further procedure. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3540	Minister, thank you, thank you Minister for your comprehensive presentation. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Bosić. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3541	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry that this now looks like Mr. Bevanda's defense and attack on Mr. Bevanda, because it's not working, it's not the point at all. Mr. Bevanda whether he's standing in a drawer or standing on a shelf doesn't matter, the bottom line is, if I'm a dot, you hand it over to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers rejected the agenda and it ended. Now what? He's standing on the drawer, standing on the shelf, so he's not in the process at all, I'm talking about, about that, we're in a dead end right now. Secondly, you're discussing here as if you're not in power, as if you're in opposition, I'm not talking about you, I think I'm talking about delegates. Well, it is clear that someone responsible, who is doing this power and who is doing this coalition, is responsible for this situation which their representatives in the Council of Ministers did not vote on what is their and their legal, and their moral, and every other duty. So this is about whether there's a political will to be a choice or there's no political will. If there is a political will to call elections this afternoon, call a telephone session of the Council of Ministers and push forward the draft budget. If there's no political will so you'll find a million reasons who's guilty, who refused, why can't it be done, so I actually think things are now, I'm just sorry that Mr. Bevanda didn't at first explain these attitudes we heard at the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3542	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3543	I listened carefully to the finance minister and the finance minister confirmed in his address that everything that I have stated today was true in the discussions in terms of the deadlines and the jobholders that were to be done. I have to say, things are a little clearer now. Mr. Bevanda was talking about the Fiscal Council Act, you were saying what I was saying, is, six people do this fiscal council, five people make a decision, you forgot one thing legal, no matter what those five have to be one thing at a time, is that right, from every constituent nation. Now, you've said one thing that no one has replicated to you, and I'd like to know the truth, that you're the only one who's actually come to these meetings of the Fiscal Council, and I'm going back to this fiscal council because ten months have been lost because things haven't been done right either. Does this mean that the Federation Prime Minister, Mr Novalić, did not come to the meeting of the Fiscal Council? The answer is yes. Well, the public needs to know, I don't know, I'm asking now. Now, next thing you know, how do we solve this question that we're talking about today and how do we come up with a solution? I think we can do it within two days and do it the next way. First, today's session of the Finance and Budget Commission is scheduled, today we can pass a law adopted by the House of Representatives, amendments and additions to the Finance Act, if we wish to. Step two, here are three members of the College. I can schedule an emergency session of the People's House tomorrow to adopt it. And the day after tomorrow, the Council of Ministers, if that is the problem, may make a decision or any relevant legal act relating to the financing of the elections. I'm afraid, Minister, to conclude, that you are in a great divide between what the HDZ party directives are and what the law has prescribed. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3544	If you're expecting an correction to the wrong quote, you won't get it. I'm a kolegica of Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3545	I just want to draw attention to the non-compliance with the established agenda for which respected colleagues have repeatedly called on my predecessors, because they have not talked at all about the agenda point, and this is the request of five envoys who are looking for money insurance, but have turned to Minister Bevanda who, in the process of preparing, proposing and adopting the budget, is only one link in the chain and does not have as much responsibility as is given to him in this period, means, adds, and wants to focus on Minister Bevanda as the person and minister who supported HDZ or who is from HDZ.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3546	Thank you. kolega Fazlić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3547	Well, I just want to correct my colleague Bevanda's quote, who said he knew where that information came from. It is good to know in this Parliament, it is good to know that in the Council of Ministers, it is good that we do not wait, our materials wander in Parliament for a month, two days, so we do not know, this is a positive thing that is in you in the ministry, every honor you have made progress. And here I want to, yes, we got the answers we've been waiting for, but I'd like to get an answer to our specific request. Here's me when the session is over, and I'm gonna give up at the first part of what my colleague had noticed, where we're just naming the minister, but we're gonna stay at the original conclusion of voting around him. And here to tell my colleague, Marina, that really no one has anything against my colleague Bevanda, we've worked with him for years, positive and some other things and all, so we're surprised that such an expert sometimes brings us into some dilemmas and today we've asked to get rid of these dilemmas. I'm really not happy with all his answers, because the main question today was whether we could secure the funds and which is the way, is this the way we're looking for, the Bošnjak klub, or if there's another time. We know that the budget, but I have repeatedly said in the discussion that the budget is slow, that we will not achieve what the Election Commission requires and what the law says. So in the end, when you're done, we're going to vote on this conclusion that you got in the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3548	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3549	Well, I don't know if it could be said that the correction of the wrong allegation, here it is, mostly that the finance minister and the vault thank each other for this presentation and indeed here I have to be correct, otherwise Mr. Nović, when he exhibits mostly behind his presentation, has no reaction whatsoever, and he has mentioned this exposure to Mr. Bevand, if I'm not mistaken, since 24.03. here at session 33 Home. I listened well to what the minister said on that occasion, none of us present have applied for any discussion. Now, what Mr. Bevanda, including this famous Fiscal Council and Non-Responsibility, I don't know who, nor am I interested in any religion, or from any party, that people ignore six times, that they don't come to that session, that's just talking about the irresponsibility of the BiH institutions and I really am asking, if we can't find a solution in terms of a special legal act, a decision or another, I'm talking about this specific or special way that Mr. Denis talked about, can we hear from the minister if everything is in the best order and the budget goes to the Council of Ministers, so it goes to the Presidency as a proposal – how long can the whole circle end as soon as we have a budget for 2022? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3550	I hope you don't expect it from the minister. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3551	Thank you. Mr. Fazlić, it doesn't matter here when it comes to this decision with Minister Bevanda, it has to do with the budget. And I think you still need to ask Mr. Novalić why he didn't follow the law and what he was meant to do when it comes to the work of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-05-23-0.u3552	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues after ten discussions and 19 different forms of replicas, which are business, non-business, but here are all past, I no longer see an application for discussion and we conclude the debate on this agenda point. Thank you very much. Please start the vote, we vote on the Bosniak Club's proposal. Thank you. Attendance 15 - for 6, versus 8, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 4 versus 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find that this proposal, the conclusion, has not been adopted. Thank you very much. This concludes, dear colleagues and colleagues, the 11th emergency session of the House of Peoples. We will be informed of the date of the next session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 2:30.
