ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3743	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 12th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and representatives of international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of this House. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The session is attended by 11 delegates – 4 from the Bosniak order, 4 from the Croatian people and 3 from the Serb people. I would like to say that Mr Dragan Čović, Munib Jusufović, Dušanka Majkić and Sredoje Nović are today absent from this session and I can conclude that we have a bloodbath for full and full decision-making. For the 12th emergency session, I suggest the next agenda. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 2. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2022 (first reading), delivered by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, No: 01.02-02-1-911/22 since 28.06.2022. This is a harmonised, modified and updated agenda for the College of the People's House that you've won. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3744	Ladies and gentlemen, the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public is a witness to a shameful proposal addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which envisions an increase in the salaries of top state officials, members of the presidency, MPs, delegates, ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers. I find it an unprecedented act of insolence, pride and insolence. Half an hour ago, I voted on the Finance Commission and the budget against such a budget proposal, and today I would like to invite all my colleagues in the House of Peoples to either stop or start to mitigate this kind of scandalous proposal. We can stop it with serious system measures and access or 2 eventually alleviate some sadistic approach by giving 500 marks, national money, for humanitarian purposes. I suggest we choose a serious and systematic approach, which means we stop, and we have these mechanisms, this embarrassing salary increase for state officials. So I propose today that, as a previous question before we move to Budget, we put a new agenda point in terms of what I was talking about, so within this point, we would consider this immoral increase in receiving elected officials at the state level and make concrete conclusions. I have, therefore, concrete conclusions on the subject, all of this being delivered in writing, and I propose that we discuss this as a previous issue, make concrete conclusions which we will oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH to correct such a proposal that has come from the ruling parties here to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The proposal, therefore, did not bring forth storks, is a proposal that came from SNSD ministers, from the SDA, from the HDZ, and we should talk about it today and try to correct that injustice.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3745	Thank you. Word has a colleague, Mladen Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3746	Thank you, Chairman. Four months ago, the House of Representatives sent emergency procedures to the House of Peoples of the Law on the Elimination of Excise on Fuel, it is evident that this Law slows down through various procedures and in some ways tries to avoid before the elections for debate in the House of Peoples, i.e. it is not possible to come on the agenda. If anything was urgent in this work of ours in the past four years, it was urgent that the authorities in some way commit themselves in a direct way to help the citizens ease the crisis. Meanwhile, inflation has gone wild and we have an ever worse state and an increasingly urgent need to adopt such a law that would directly affect the size of inflation, i.e. reducing inflation in BiH. I don't know what procedure this law is in right now, but I suggest we put it on the agenda, and if some commissions need to agree to do so in the session break and show the citizens that we are here to help them in some way.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3747	I thank my colleague Bosić. No one's reported for the agenda yet. I'm closing the debate. A colleague of Denis Bećirović. [[no microphone turned on]] Is there any need for me to read the agenda application? _________(?) There is. There is. In accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty on the Functioning I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH be added to the agenda of the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, a new 3 point titled – Considering the new situation in connection with the adoption of the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations of 2022, issue: 01,02-02-1 911/22, with a special reference to the immorally enormous increase in the reception of elected officials in the institutions of the BiH State. Let's vote. For voting three against five, abstentioned no one. From the Federation – 3 for, from the Republic – 1 for. Against the Federation – 5, Republika Srpska – 2. We have no, therefore, general, no entity majority, this proposal has not been adopted. Comrade Bosić, your request was oral, orally not known.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3749	Put the Excise Act on the agenda. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3750	Who's to be on the agenda, I don't think we can put anything on the agenda that's in the procedure of business. So we can't do business, I'm sorry, and we can't plead out what would be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We are now pleading on the proposed agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3751	There's no need to plead. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3752	There is no need to make a statement, so I realize that we have adopted the agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 2. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2022 (first reading), delivered by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, No: 01.02-02-1-911/22 since 28.06.2022. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate on the record. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 4 We declare the record of the 11th emergency session of the House of Nations. Attending 12 - for 10, against no one, abstentioned none. We have a general, we have an entity majority. So I realize that we adopted the minutes from the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. We're moving on to second point, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2022 (first reading), delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH House of Representatives, No: 01,02-02-1-911/22 of 28.06.2022
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3755	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3756	No, thank you very much. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there is any need. I don't see the need to answer that. I'm opening a debate, so first reading. Mr. Miletić called for a hearing. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3757	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome you all, so colleagues and colleagues, I also welcome the representatives of the Council of Ministers, or present ministers and deputies. Here, I must say, there is no chairman of the Council of Ministers again, which has become common. I welcome, of course, the representatives of our institutions, as well as the people who look at us in direct transmission. What I want to say and suggest to you, the chairman. I really expected that before the adoption of this Bill on the Budget of the Institutions for 2022, it would be polite if you had also put us a draft budget for 2021 clearly still standing somewhere in a drawer in the House of Peoples, so it would be your turn to take it out. The second thing that is very important to me is the very content of the bill, when you look at it in the context of the opinion given by the Commission and which you have now said for it can be determined that it is, under alleged signs, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but such a proposal for a budget is completely immoral for several reasons, let me explain why. Given the fact that the budget envisions a sum of 1,073 billion and 819 million, under the alleged signs, of this public debt. When you look at certain items, everything is increased and it's contrary to everything I've tried to do for three years, which is that on behalf of citizens, people or residents, however you like, BiH saves money in institutions and gives that money back to our citizens in different ways. Whenever I did it in any way, you were explicit against it, and I'm going to try to go in order to get a better understanding of me. The costs of employees and assembly representatives are higher by 10 million. Please, the phones, costs higher by a million and 150 grand, millieu and 150 grand. Now imagine the absurd, I asked that an obligation be imposed by the Administrative Commission to correct the Regulation and to abolish the payment of the phone to all elected and appointed, is it possible that someone who has a salary of 4.5 thousand and more is able to pay his phone? You've gone over it, it doesn't interest you, and instead of reducing those costs, we're increasing them even more. Energy 2.5 million higher costs, and I can understand that in the context of the global general crisis, so here's what people say, so it can be accepted. The purchase of material assets three million higher, the purchase of material and services is higher by 25 million, technical maintenance by four million, capital expenditures by seven million. What my colleague said earlier, and I am most disappointed, I must say, by the work of the House of Representatives, by Bog and by the Council of Ministers, and us here, since I already have before me the views of the commission, when it comes to expenditure on gross wages and compensations of 633 million and 383. All of this would be normal and acceptable if you hadn't done it in the previous period, so let me briefly remind you what you've been doing. 23.10.2020, here it is, you explicitly rejected an initiative that I asked to improve the status of our employees, not you here, employees, civil servants and tenants, you didn't want to discuss this. On the 12th of January, to remind you, in 2021, so, from this almost two years ago, I asked you to put the same item on the agenda and talk about it, given that the crisis, that people barely, our employees and employees, ended up not wanting to open a debate about it. So you weren't interested in it at all. Now, from that aspect in the meantime, the Council of Ministers' Decision, which was published in the "Official Messenger" 23/22, came an increase in the basics, which you have now fulfilled, and you returned the basics from 2009, if I remember you were then the chairman of the Council of Ministers when it was reduced and returned to 535 and I have nothing against it except that on several occasions I spoke and said that it was a disgrace to the elected officials, meaning, when I say so from members of the Presidency, and also appointed, from members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies, deputies in both homes, all directors and deputies of the agencies to raise their salary by 500 marks, I think it's so pathetic 6 and I just can't figure out that in this way, the citizens of the country in which up to a year ago, there were 15% of these poor people living in BiH, that I don't have any of these pensions. I have no words first for this kind of greed, for this lack of awareness in which citizens or if you want the peoples of BiH to find themselves, for that kind of narcissism, for the desire for power and for the demonstration of force, this is a demonstration of force. If you were to put us in a position, who we were, us MPs or delegates, the envoys, however you like, to take that money, so whoever is, to share it with humanitarian organisations, and to share it with someone, you would comment on it in a way that we here in the competent institutions are managing a parole – take it from the poor to give to the hungry. Instead of taking from the rich and sharing the poor with us everything, my people, is upside down. So it's all upside down. Meanwhile, a story broke out in the public, and I have to take it as an example is it one of the positive examples in BiH, about the humanitarian non-profit organisation Help.ba. That organization has existed since '12. It has helped, believe it or not, over 700,000 or 700 thousand BiH citizens, which is on average 70,000 per year. Now imagine we've been unable here for years to help our 23.5 thousand civil servants and tenants. What do I want to say? If we had done our job for three years, we wouldn't need such non-profit humanitarian organisations, we would have helped the citizens in this regard, and we wouldn't have given part of their money as a charity to some third party and thus bought as some political points. What I mean is, I hope you understand. Certainly when we speak in this second part I will give you one proposal or one method how fine and polite, if you want, if you have political will and empathy, we can get out of this problem. To conclude, so the principles by which this was made, and also to thank you for honoring us, so here after nine months of delay that we have this budget, it's good to have it in any way, thank you very much, in any case all of this is written I can't accept in any part of it. About the ministries and these other things, about the NATO road, the AMP, whatever they call it, about the Ministry of Defence not to increase the expenditures of the corresponding reforms that we need to do, and about some other ministries, the Ministry of Security and some other potentials, especially when it comes to the economy, not to mention, we're not helping anyone here, nor are we thinking about anyone. And that about young people and about helping our athletes, cultural workers, I have mentioned it many times, from mathematicians Đurić Nebojša from Banja Luka who solves a problem that is 40 years old, to Lane Pudar, who is a better ambassador or ambassador of BiH than all of us here together, that we are unable to separate funds for these children and say, here are every child 100 thousand marks to develop that talent, to believe in them, are they carrying a good voice about BiH. So in that sense, I can't accept this in principle either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3758	Thank you very much. A colleague named Denis Bećirović called for the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3759	So we have before us the Budget by the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH and it has been delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I want to talk about three aspects, first of all procedural, legal, secondly political and thirdly about content, therefore, of the content of the draft budget itself. When it comes to procedures and laws, I would like to say very clearly and let it be 7 who deny it if both the delegates and the Council of Ministers can, that all the laws governing the issue of adoption of the budget have been violated in relation to the adoption of this Budget, except for the laws regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers of BiH, this House of People, as well as the House of Representatives and the BiH Presidency. The public in BiH deserves to know the answers to some of the important issues when we talk about the budget. The first question is – what are the reasons why we adopt the budget here at the end of June of the month, without doing so within the legal deadline? The second question – who is responsible for it? For months in this House and colleagues and Miletić, and I are looking for an answer to that question. And the third principled question is – are the laws in this country as applicable to state officials as well as to ordinary citizens? I expect these and similar questions to be answered and members of the College, Špirić, Izetbegović, Čović is currently missing, there is the finance minister, I do not see the chairman of the Council of Ministers, any of you present to answer this question or these questions. When it comes to the procedure itself, I would like to remind the Ministry of Finance that it was due until 01 October 2021 to deliver the draft budget law. The BiH Council of Ministers was obliged to submit a draft budget to the Bureau by 15 October last year, i.e. draft budget law. And then the BiH presidency to the Parliamentary Assembly by November 01st last year. Finally, in the final phase, the Parliamentary Assembly should have, BiH, adopted it by 31 December. I will not even talk about the political aspect, the security element in this country has been violated, and when it comes to this part, the only responsibility lies with the separatist force in BiH. Let's take a look at the income and expenditure schedule now, or budget-user expenditure schedule. The name of the budgetary user BiH Parliamentary Assembly in 2020, when the last budget was adopted, is foreseen for Parlamen 16 million and 279 thousand, in 2022 19 million and 526 thousand, an increase for the BiH Parliament of 3 million and 247 thousand. My question, again, if anyone can answer, why an increase of 3,227.000 KM for the BiH Parliament that almost does nothing. This country remembers neither the Council of Ministers nor the worse Parliament. How at the moment when we have the worst results, the least work is going on such an enormous increase for Parliament. The BiH presidency was 7,547,000 in 2020, in 2022, 9.571,000 KM, an increase of nearly two million converting marks. Question – why increase, what are the results? At the same time, while the BiH Directorate for European Integration is clearly trying to reward those who do nothing or do very little, let's say the BiH Directorate for European Integration has a very modest increase, and we all want a full mouth in the EU. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees minus 326.000 KM. Fund for the return of minimum funds when it comes to the increase. The agency for preschool, primary and secondary education minus 5,000. See now the review of the dedicated structure for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Gross wages and fees increased by 1,839.000, travel costs by 334, increased in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. People where you travel when there are no results in the country or out of the country? Costs of telephone and postal services increased by 24 thousand. It's a 14 grand supply. Again I ask the question – what do you get when nothing is done? The BiH Defence Ministry minus 49,000 expenditures on telephone and postal services. The supply of material minus 1,248,000. Current maintenance expenditure minus 1.213,000. Is this the NATO budget for BiH, is this support for BiH's Euro-Atlantic path? An Annex 1-B of the Dayton Peace Agreement envisions a regional balance throughout the region. Look at the examples, say, of Serbia as far as the Ministry of Defence stands out. Serbia, for example, is at the top of the European list for the growth of the military budget and defence. In 2020 alone, neighbouring Serbia singled out close to $150m for equipment and weapons, nearly $100m for remounting weapons and military equipment in Serbia. Neighbouring state, but also some other neighbors are getting combat helicopters, planes, missile systems, tanks, armored vehicles, etc. Why does BiH have a budget like this when it comes to defence? Do we have the strength here in Parliament to talk about one of the fundamental things within the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is Annex 1-B 8 of the regional balance of arms and military equipment in the region. Take a look at the budget for European integration by item, employee costs minus 13 000, supply of material minus 5 000, etc. I don't believe that's how you go into the European Union. I especially think it's a mistake that human rights items are diminishing. When you look at the Ministry of Human Rights and Flea, look at some of these current transfers and grants. Transfers to provide Roma minus 160,000, reduction, Roma employment minus 400,000, etc. etc. With all this in mind, I must say that I will vote against this budget, and I am delivering to the House of Peoples five conclusions to declare them concretely. The conclusions envision, among other things, that we task the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver all necessary acts in the Parliamentary procedure within seven days at the latest to stop the salary increase to state officials. The conclusions provide for the House of Peoples to meet and hold emergency meetings until this is resolved, and we also call on the BiH presidency as a proposing to engage in resolving this problem amongst the conclusions. I deliver the conclusions in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3760	Thank you. [[no microphone turned on]] The word has a colleague Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3761	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the media and others present, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you first and first to put on a dilemma. I think we should've heard from the proponents here for some reasons, maybe the discussion would have gone a different way. We see that in the epicenter of pay stories, the increase in the salaries of parliamentarians, ministers, elected officials and all those to whom it applies, along with me, with the increase justified for these categories which indeed had small salaries and in the towers themselves there are various theories between us, there are even theories that go so far, which they say – and who says they will increase. So we would ask here the most responsible of the Ministry of Finance to tell us clearly and loudly – is this an increase for both MPs and all of these listed categories, means the politician above all, as the media says, what we should do, can we do something today, which is the legal basis, in what way? Because let me remind you, if we adopt today's budget increase and pay cuts is a constitutional category and we immediately come into the situation that already in the making of these laws, which many colleagues will submit, or conclusions we come to a situation of how to reduce then pay, because we are violating the Constitution. That's why I'd like these dilemmas before we go to some more of the debates to hear. And I would ask the finance minister to really, here, there are a lot of elements, I don't go into all this analysis today, there are elements here for, elements against, elements against, good elements, bad elements, generally when we look at it it's always better to have any budget than none, but it's known that we've never had such a situation in BiH, and in the whole world since the pandemic, war and everything else and all the reflections on this state. That's why I'd ask you at least we needed the story of the increase, let alone the increase. And so that we can further focus our discussions, so that further in the amendment and in the second phase, we can react with individual, amendments or possible conclusions, ask the finance minister or whom he has the authority to explain to us. Under number one, first of all, does this budget and the official salary increase mean or do we as MPs not know whether or not that and what and how we can do, which are the modes that already pay off for the next month, for the next month, there are no politicians, MPs, directors, ministers in that category? Here's one simple way I explained to you before the discussion, before we discuss any further, I'd like to hear it first, I'd like to ask you Ministers. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3762	I thank my colleague, Fazlić. Correction of the false quote or replica, colleague Zlatko Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3763	My kolega Fazlić, I really respect you and you are one of my favorite associates here when it comes to the House of Peoples, but I must rephrase to you in that sense, are you not right in at least two things. I'm not a proponent of what you're saying better than that we don't have a budget in the first place, do we have it for years and a half, so we're working on temporary financing on decisions, if I'm not wrong, here, let me be corrected by the finance minister, six or seven times we've extended those decisions. You know what that means to the citizens? That the only thing that matters here is that we have money for our salaries, and these 300, 400 million in our budget are simply not interested in helping anyone or any ministry or any citizen. And that kind of unhappiness, irresponsibility shows that we, I think we're the only country in Europe that doesn't have a budget for 2021, my people. That's one thing. The second thing, I don't agree with it, is that the pay is a constitutional category. I mean, it's very easy to resolve this question that the motionor, I mean both the Presidency and the draft budget, I mean not only the finance minister, I mean the Council of Ministers as an organ, they had to bear that in mind, and what was the problem with this law proposing an amendment to the Law on Salaries and Refunds and to say, my people, this for us to take this money is a shame, we're going to lower the coefficient for one and that's those 535 marks. Was that some kind of big brain? So, please, if we're talking about this, let's get this question to a rational level, so that if we don't, if not so far, let's show at least one part of the empathy that we're not so greedy and that we don't have to really be if there's no need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3764	Thank you. Replica, colleague Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3765	A good colleague's replicated it, but I have to mention, this is not exactly what I said, it can be looked at in a stenogram. I didn't say it was better to have a budget than no budget, there are theories that it's better to have a budget than not to. You said it was better to have nothing than no imam, sort of. So, what I'm saying is that we hear from the promoter here what the reasons are, if we need the budget, we haven't had it so far, I agree with you in this discussion there's no need to discuss, we need, what are the arguments that came through this budget now, because the theme of all of this is what I'm saying in the introduction, these are the salaries. Why, is that it or not? On the other hand, what I said in the constitutional category, I'm not defending wages, I'm saying that we're going to get into trouble. Today 10 passes the budget and we raise the salaries, then we cut them, and we all want to cut them, then we break the Constitution. It was, however, at the House of Representatives of certain decisions that were cut and implemented. Why am I saying this? So that someone doesn't take it away from us later, that we can't, and we all want to, we all want to cut it down, and nobody wants to increase it here. There we are, me and you, my colleague absolutely agree. So, here maybe we just didn't get along well, you said better than anything. And be careful, why I think it's better to have a budget, because we have 18,000 people waiting for the budget here, we have an army, we have the police, we have everything else, with all these minuses that someone smartly pulled through what they really need. Let's make it right and we have a budget. Here, I think your colleague is pleased.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3766	I thank my colleague, Fazlić. A colleague named Marina Pendeš, came forward for the word, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3767	Thank you. I, all of you dear colleagues, welcome you from the heart. I thank the Proposer in this case, so this Budget came to us from the House of Representatives, so I don't see any reason to call the Minister of Finance, he's done everything in these few years in the power of the Minister of Finance. We all know very well, we are not since yesterday, that the establishment of both the Fiscal Framework and the establishment of the institution's budget, the distribution goes through the Fiscal Council and cannot be one person, and this is the finance minister, in a way to accuse that it is not in accordance with procedures etc. referred to the procedure. I believe that this budget has finally come and I think we should determine it in a way that we can adopt it. Any initiative or comment on the great concern of increasing salaries to officials, which is, the apology to adopt a budget for me is in fact an activity not to increase the salaries of civil servants, employees, members of the Armed Forces, because in the last few years we have adopted amendments to the law where in some way the salaries of the lowest soldiers and officers in the Armed Forces are increased, I speak with the lowest rank. And I think this is the ultimate, final, ultimate activity of us in the House of Nations to support the budget. I agree that there was or should have been a certain position, a way of finding a certain, to say, procedure, whether it's a change of law or what, to exempt themselves from this increase, when we're talking about basics, you can't exclude us when it's defined by law, but now to prevent it from me is populist, because it's a pre-election campaign. I expect us to support this, as I expect both entities and the Republika Srpska and the Federation, both prime ministers and one and the other entities, and finance ministers of one and the other entities to support the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance so that everything that was adopted through the 2016 defence review by the BiH Presidency, which concerns the modernisation and equipment of the Armed Forces, can be respected. That's not a hundred million, that's a 500 million circus in a certain period of time. Of course, that 500 million is very much, but here I expect and support, and now we're talking about principles we're not talking about the amendment phase, and in that sense I'm going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3768	I thank my colleague, Pendeš. The word came from a colleague, and the correction of the wrong quote... 11 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3769	Just to correct the lady in an allegation that is absolutely not true. I remember when I filed the initiative on 23.10.1920 there was no choice then and there was no need for any populism and then and 12.01. you voted against it. I am the only one from this House of People, six protests were down there, four times I went out with our officers and tenants to support them in that intention four times, while even some of them laughed here from the building and talked – I see these fools down there. But I am, and I want to give them support in every sense of that word, is that if we are not able in an adequate way to take care of them, then how we will take care of our peoples and our peoples. So, please, if you think I'm wrong, find a stenogram, see how anyone voted, everything will be clear to you, and at this point I really don't have any need for pulsism, but I can't understand, especially how Mr. Bevanda is considered professional, that you couldn't get out of this situation in a way that man, he or someone else at the Council of Ministers tell you -- my people so this isn't ok, this isn't moral, it's not honorable. I can't get over it. So, it's not disputed here that we help our civil servants and tenants, but that in a hyna way we use this to give some hygienist 50 marks, to ourselves to take 500, I don't really think it makes sense, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3770	Thank you. The word is Lidija Bradara.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3771	No, it's rectifying the wrong quote again. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3772	Correction of the wrong quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3773	... Because, esteemed, I'm sorry that you recognized yourself in this populism when I was talking about populism, because if someone's been trying to improve the status of civil servants for years, you know how this works, and that's by changing the law. [[no microphone turned on]] It is known how the process of amending the law goes, and then it is already trying to come through the Finance Committee, as Mr Bećirović said, each time he asks where our budget is, where our budget is, although he himself knew that the budget is not in the Council of Ministers, with the Minister of Finance, but that it is in the Presidency and that the Council of Ministers is waiting again, in some way, in accordance with this procedure. Often, I was just saying that he was trying to accuse the finance minister of something that wasn't his direct responsibility, and everyone forgets that the Council of Ministers unanimously supported this, that it went to the House of Representatives, or the Presidency, to the House of Representatives that he had received most of it there and I don't know what else to say if it wasn't populism.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3774	Thank you. A kolegica of Bradar, a discussion. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3775	Thank you, I welcome you all very much. Well, here I thought that we would sort of end this story in a different way on principles and principles and first reading of the law on institutions. It's clear to all of us, and every time I say that the budget is the most political document we adopt, he... The law on the financing of institutions or as we call it from miles of budget at all levels has its certain aspects, above all and social, and trade union, and economic, and financial, and ultimately and politically, and the social aspect of both the country itself and the budget, which we should adopt today, at least I think it is very important for all segments in society. [[no microphone turned on]] I want to remind us here, I know that it's nice for us to listen, watch us all together, we that we have our clear vision this would certainly have been a bigger budget, this budget is the sixth of an entity budget and we are now grasping the details here. In BiH there are strictly divided responsibilities, I know that some people would love and that there is a vision that BiH should look different, at this point this is BiH consisting of four levels of government, so you have municipal budgets, county budgets, federal, entity budgets and you finally have the budget of institutions or the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. So, I'm asking and reminding you of jurisdiction. We can whine here for five thousand marks, 50 or, I'm unhappy that some of us, we haven't solved all our problems so far and we can't solve it. I think that in any case there are institutions, there are other budgets which these life issues and many things are invested in areas that need to be defined and which are in their direct jurisdiction. I am also sorry that so far, but as we speak, we can help in one way or another, we haven't had the strength at the levels where it's possible to make measures that will stop this sundiving standard of the BiH population at all levels, in all areas, because you'll have to admit no matter how loud someone here was more or less, we all live on some addresses and live with ordinary people, even though I feel myself as an ordinary man and I am very aware of everything that happens and standards, and speculative, and manipulative savages on the market in BiH that we are neither able to stop, nor do anything. What I know about this Budget and I assume that the procedure was that you had budget requirements, that these budgetary requirements had passed your procedures, and I believe that it was done, I am sure that it was balanced and that it was unanimously adopted as a proposal by the Council of Ministers, that he came to us from the Presidency, that he was adopted by the House of Representatives, and I see no reason for us to discuss it. As for this increase in prices that we are about, the increase in wages that have now been raised in the first plan, what I know about the budget and what I know about, so you're establishing the basis for everything, now it means, and that's the same thing now that you would say, is the basis in any institution and so it's everywhere, so if you have a municipality to establish the basis for the city's salary calculation, the county for the county level, the Federation for the Federation level, someone does it three months, someone by the budget law is doing it at the level of the year, and that's that. Just as if you were the mayor of the municipality to establish or mayor of the foundation for the tenants and second basis for civil servants, and the third is the basis for yourself. These are the principles we can talk about now. I consider... some who participated at various levels, we had a major economic crisis, which we are now entering again, in 2009, and normally that certain rights were then cut, the basis was reduced and, by some miracle, the foundation was frozen at BiH level. [[no microphone turned on]] I believe that in any case it took one way to improve the position of nearly 20,000 employees who share with us these institutions, this building, these entrances, who welcome us with a smile, who bring us, prepare everything else and their position should in some way be fixed. The way in which, yes, for starters, return the foundation to the one from the previous period, which my colleague Miletić was talking about, and I remind you that there is no end of the campaign with us, we were campaigning for 13 local elections in 2020, so, she's not separate, she's not here now, and we're back in the campaign, we're forever in some campaign, and I think that's the basis. We, as you know, have already proposed, and there is also a law in the procedure that passed in the House of Representatives, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments in the Institutions of BiH, for which I call on all of you when it comes to the agenda of the House of Peoples to support it, it further improves the position of the most vulnerable groups, deputies and civil servants, in BiH institutions. And here's when we have more debate, I, we'll see in phase two what we're going to do about this, I don't think this can be about adopting the budget, because I think at this point in time for BiH's stability, for all those employed, for the functioning of BiH institutions, the budget is needed. And the way we're going to treat any increase and what we're going to do about it is let us discuss it in phase two. I would invite all my colleagues to adopt at least today at this stage in the first reading of the draft budget, to approach the amendment phase and then meet again in about an hour and see what we will finally do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3776	I thank my colleague, Bradara. Wrong quote, fellow Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3777	Well, based on that, I have to get back to you, you'll forgive me for taking part, so I really agree with 95% of your discussion, and I really don't mind, I just want to say two things. Given that you are alluding that some of us want a science unitary, centralist or I don't know any BiH, I understand the administrative authority of the state, entity, if you want cantons, cities, etc. And it's not a dispute, but I remind you of the fact that we here are unable to do anything for these citizens. Mr. Bosić, whom I greatly respect, so now we're human, there's no time to vote him over. Is it a problem when it comes to amending and supplementing the Excise Act to bring it in? It's not a problem. So, are we waiting for our fuel price to be five marks? I realize that here some gentlemen who have been driving official cars for 20 years that neither have a private car, nor do they go to the pump, fuel is 3.76 at the pump, so should we wait for five marks? And now that I'm also replicating you, given that you've defended in a procedural sense no commission, no commission or commission has made a decision, and it's not when you put a sick woman in the commission for whom she's an uncertain daughter, that means that you have a political intention to never happen. And by the way, two more things. Mrs. Lidija, so I will certainly support you in that intention, I do not have the HDZ complex and your proposal for those coefficients that you have proposed, I am and then and in the future I will vote for it, do I think our soldiers, officers, civil servants really deserve it? But what I want to say in the end is, in general, this story. I mean, and here's Mr. Bevanda, so, Mrs. Marina, I don't call a man personally, but I'm interested in him since our director or director of the I.D. said he was compared to '21. One year in the first eight or nine months raised 750 million extra pairs, here I am interested – where is that money and who has it with them and how, if we're going to talk about some strategy of the law? Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3778	I thank my colleague Miletić. A fellow Bosić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3779	Thank you, Chairman. So this budget is something that's being adopted every year in a very similar way, so we're redistributing tiny up and down, left and right, from this one to that one, and that's about that frame and we're talking about messages here, I don't know who said what kind of messages it sends that budget. So, these changes in the budget are about only at the level of the political messages you send to the public, for example, when you increase a million marks donation to the Constitutional Court of BiH, you send a message to the public that this institution is important to you and that is why I do not understand the story of the SNSD, or the government in Republika Srpska that the BiH Constitutional Court should be abolished and that it does not do its job well. But it is a message sent by the SNSD in its own way, not towards the citizens of Republika Srpska but towards the international community, it is obvious. And so the tiny messages and the tiny things there are many. But do you notice that we are having a bile debate here about the salaries of people who work here and who are officials here, and the vast majority of people are not at all in this 95 status, 99% of people have no connection, no benefit, no harm in this debate that we're having here. What they benefited from and what they expected us to do was in the story of reducing, eliminating excise duties and the story of abolishing, or reducing VAT, and that is what everyone would feel and probably something that would stabilise the situation and the opportunity to savage inflation or potentially savage inflation in BiH. So, we're dealing with something and we're playing games that we've played a hundred times, I'm going to, you know, I'm going to think about, it's come to mind from that report that we didn't even get here by the Direct Taxation Authority, that sentence -- that I don't need to cut VAT to basic life supplies, to bread, to milk, and to get into basic life supplies, because they're going to buy you groceries and rich, and then I don't need to let that be abolished or reduced. So it seems to me that this, too, this story here, we have to adopt the budget because of these workers here, and what those who have the highest wages and receipts are going to get is collateral damage, and that seems to me about the same level of logic as this story I just told. So, for me, the budget is unacceptable because it caused such a public reaction and that supporting such a budget and ignoring and public reaction and a message to the public that you have to do something in accordance with their requirements would be devastating to the institutions, not just BiH, but to all politicians, no matter who they are or what they are. So, in no way am I going to support this budget, and I suggest you find a way to try to correct this, this picture that you created not only about Parliament, but about all those people who deal with politics or who are in power and in BiH, and in entities, because it seems to me that this is going to have a much bigger reflection not only of the elections, so here I'm not talking about elections, this way we're going downhill in all segments of society is the question of where it's going to end. Our standards in everything, even in politics, went ten steps lower, our discussions politically are neither close to the intellectual discussions that were held in parliaments or in these halls ten or fifteen years ago. Everything's going downhill, who's going to stop it? And here's this budget and the budget debate is about in that spirit, so I'm warning you, so I'm not asking you to do it personally, I'm warning you that you still need to sit down and think that before adopting this budget, you can find answers to those questions that the public expects Parliament to give them. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3780	Thank you. ...a quote, colleague Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3781	The wrong allegation is that through a statement by the respected Mr. Bosić, the public informs the public that in a relationship, I want to say, a proportional increase in wages to civil servants, employees through this budget, is essentially a colourful lie, and that they would benefit more from the differentiated VAT rate, i.e. the reduction of excise duties, which is not true, which is not true, and this can be explained. Secondly, it is not true that in such a way, although Mr Bosić may have so understood the information delivered to us by the Directorate for indirect taxation, I believe that consumption, social consumption has to do with the increase in wages and unless you have increased the salary of workers, and the worker is among other things... here in Parliament, i.e. the envoy, then because you have no opportunity to spend it anywhere, or in wholesales and regardless. So it's ours, it's ours, it's ours, and in this sense I can only accept responsibility as a HDZ member that we haven't done enough at lower levels of government, primarily I mean at Federation level, or canton level, when it comes to inspections to prevent price savages on the market, to prevent savages and price increases when it comes to margins and fuel along with all other coalition partners where we are in power. On the other hand, talk about the future of BiH, and in the last term you were, not You, but members of your party in the Council of Ministers and did everything to slow BiH down on the Euro-Atlantic path, as well as on the European path.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3782	I thank my colleague, Pendeš. My colleague Bosić, he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3783	Well, Mrs. Pendeš, I don't know that we've been doing something to slow down, you probably have some arguments, but I'm pretty sure even though we've been working to slow down that we've been doing it on a very amateur basis compared to the HDZ that's been doing it for the past four years. So, what has stopped in these four years is the fruit of politics not only of HDZ but of the policy of these three ruling parties. And I have to say that you either misunderstood me or I didn't make a good statement, I said, I'm not against increasing the salary to officers in the joint institutions, so people have to live off... life expenses have gone a lot worse, people have to pay their dues, they have to do something to support their families. So, it's not true, but I'm asking -- what about thousands, hundreds, thousands of those who work in the private sector, who work as mercenaries, who work, who, on whom there is no initiative by the authorities and how to help them and their wages, that they can survive too? I don't think that, as I don't think we should be privileged and privileged politicians, I don't think that we should be privileged by those who are officials in institutions, this is about, what is the principle of politics relative to the people. Whether politics serves the people and whether it is their purpose or whether it is the people who should support politicians and in some way maintain them as a special entity. I think there's a big problem here in BiH that never passed the notorious fact that the government exists to serve the people, but is always 16 ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3786	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3787	....that here we need to discuss improving the status of all BiH citizens in a way where we have power, and we have power in municipalities, we have in the counties, we have in the entities of Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District, and there we should have made sure that through certain means, and we know that it has been allocated through the Fiscal Council budget, made a fiscal framework, to identify which groups or better said areas where we can help our people, whether it was about pensioners, whether it was about those who have minimum wage. On the other hand, if you want to go to the state level, and I know that your representatives are parties too, so also in the past, and here you are now, so you need to support Mr. Bećirović's initiative to rise to the state level, let's say, the economy and everything else, and that changes the law at the state level, and that way we can help everyone in the private sector. You know very well that the existing laws at the state level do not recognise it, but on entities, and in that sense, I think that there is a groundless debate in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3788	... I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] [[no microphone turned on]] If a colleague called Bevanda, the finance minister. Here you go, Minister. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3790	Here's a greeting to everyone with a desire for successful work, that's what I truly want. It becomes a bit of a handicap for me personally, the fact that I'm at every session and then it's absolutely all asked of Minister Bevanda. I'll try not to repeat myself, uh, no matter how much I provoke anyone. So I filed a report to this House, or both at home at the request of the joint colleges, where there was a legitimate question of why there was no budget, why, which 17 were procedures and everything else. So I won't be talking about the Fiscal Council Act, which has been broken and broken for two years, but is not being violated by the Ministry of Finance, and especially by the Minister. So, I remind you of the Fiscal Council Act, which determines the allocations for the state budget for a three-year period, without the fiscal council's decision, you can't go into budget-making. We are 18 months on temporary funding, on temporary funding, all of the reference parallel sizes, so, at 2020 level, 2020, there was a pandemic, and we, among other things, removed everything that we have, which everyone thought should be removed and the money directed to rescheduling costs, the resulting covids, the funds allocated to entities and lower levels of government. I'm going to start with, I'm just going to refer to this fresh, someone asked -- where's the 700 million that the management went media that they've achieved in these five months? So I'm going back to what the Fiscal Council is, so no mark of these 700 million increases went to the state but exclusively to entities and the Brcko District, so lower levels of government. And the state has nothing, so it's prescribed by law and that's it. As far as the basics are concerned, the basis prescribed by law and last year all year, with one thirty of the Ministry of Finance's operations, which was not on the Council of Ministers, we managed to bring the basis... had a request, first of all the unions, to increase the base, so it was slightly increased in the past year, forgets that the budget was passed on to the Council of Ministers, came to the House of Representatives, and, in the seventh month of last year, there was stopped and we never had it. So this base that was brought in when the Global Fiscal Framework, on the same date, was 30.03 this year, means, on the Council of Ministers of Fundamentals, and on the Fiscal Council, this Fiscal Framework and about that, I'm saying, I've submitted a report that I have nothing to justify, this one, but here's the same question again and looking for the same answers, so I'm probably preconceived. So, the emergency to the Fiscal Council, the emergency to the Council of Ministers. These comparisons, I say, when you say comparisons, they're on a specific 2020 and you all know the specifics that they were then. We respected and I personally respected all the laws, and I did not break any laws, and since those publicly stated claims have already been made that I have committed and committed crimes, so I answer, and through the application of the prosecution, where I have to keep talking and applying these arguments. So, I don't think anyone's going to listen to me much today, like you didn't listen to me when I filed a report at the college's request, and about what I said was the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3791	I thank Minister Bevanda. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3792	I don't think there's room for any smoke curtains today and it's very clear what this is about. In my previous presentation, I made it clear that all the laws governing the budgetary adoption issue, as well as the rules of procedure, have been violated. And I must express regret that only the Minister of Finance, Mr Bevanda, has been here in the O.R. for months, not to say for years, there is no chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Does anyone know any government in Europe or the world that the prime minister doesn't come to the session even when the state-level budget is adopted? If there is such an example, let it be indicated. I am also sorry that no one has denied any of these thesises that I have spoken of in my presentation. I proposed, therefore, even before the budget was adopted, but also within this point, a concrete conclusion as to how we can correct this injustice and stop the salary increase, i.e. the salaries of top state officials. 18 I must also say one thing very clearly, the Constitution is not an obstacle to doing so. Within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, white bread was abolished and several tens of millions of marks were saved, at the proposal of MP Damir Arnaut. During the 2010-2014 term, I was then chairman of the House of Representatives, some of them remember, we abolished the regression, or reduced it to 1 KM, halved the height of the diaries, was on the threshold, personally I was the proposer of the cancellation of the jubilee award. So, the Constitution is no obstacle to us stopping the immoral increase in receiving the highest state officials. Of course, the question arises – do we have will and do we have mechanisms? There are all mechanisms to do this, the same parliamentary majority in the presidency, in the College of the House of Peoples, in the College of the House of Representatives, in the Council of Ministers of BiH, even more so in the House of Peoples and in the Presidency also sits the presidents of the three key parties of the ruling coalition. All mechanisms exist to change that, if they will. How did this proposal happen in the BiH Parliament in the first place, and that we need to talk about this today? What I'm showing is the record of the 48th regular Council of Ministers meeting of 30 March this year, item 10. A proposal for a decision on the basis of the salary account for BiH institutions. The Council of Ministers adopted this decision that I am showing,
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3793	Only if you can take care of it in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3794	This is very important for a few information only, a decision on the level of the base for the 2022 salary account. You know how this decision was adopted in the Council of Ministers? Unanimity. Here, let the only minister tell me if I'm wrong. It is unanimous, therefore, all ministers voted for this, SDA, SNSD, HDZ. What does it say here in Article 2? – the base for the calculation of the salary is determined in the amount of 535 KM. What happened before this decision? The last decision of 2020 when we had the last budget, article 2 amounted to, or written, the basis for the calculation of the salary is determined in the amount of 475.69 KM. It's decisions. What does the record say from that Council of Ministers session?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3795	Please, I'm sorry, Denise, that I have to insist... come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3796	Here's the end of a few sentences. The record reads this: The finance and vault minister explained this item of the agenda about the increase and there were no ministers who applied for the debate. It's this record, and what we're talking about, what kind of smoke bombs we're throwing in front of people, things are very clear here.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3797	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Correction of the wrong quote, Marina Pendeš. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3798	I would like to say that it is not true, because Mr Bećirović said someone was throwing smoke bombs, that laws and rules were broken, for illegal action, but did not clearly define or specify who they were. That is why in the future anyone here in this palrament would, if they really want to stand behind their words, indicate whether it is the Minister of Finance, whether it is the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Turković, whom no one can mention here, who has never appeared here, I do not remember her showing up, but others are mentioned. In that sense, I find it really necessary to be moral and then accept your mistakes.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3799	I thank my colleague, Pendeš. Zlatko Miletić, wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3800	I'm sorry we had to discuss this important document with you, but we just put it on the pay line. I thank Mr. Minister for answering this question of mine where this 700 million is, and now my situation is a little clearer. I'm one of the people in this House who I reported to the D.A.'s Attorney General for the N.N.A.'s perpetrator of why we don't have a budget for '21, '22. a year and why, in time, the SIP, or CEC, did not receive the money to conduct the elections. So, I haven't mentioned anyone personally, nor am I interested in who he is, but here's to take this fact, and I appreciate the last time Minister Bevanda said it was wrong, under the alleged signs, the three-year unhappiness of the fiscal council. Gentlemen of the Fiscal Council are your political parties, so the representatives of your parties, I am not personally, so someone has to be responsible, that's the first thing. It's another thing. What pisses me off? Here, Mr. Bevanda said 18 months we've been working on temporary funding, if I understand correctly. Please explain to me what art it is that, under the temporary funding of 22,319, we get to 23,559 thousand employed by 1200 more than last year? Well, my people, I've watched where people have been employed, come on, there's an excuse when it comes to border police, it seems to me, there's a Constitutional Court and some institutions, but the people of my 1200 people to hold on, if I'm a good read or I'm a dead end, so now we have 23 559 employees. Let me finish, please, and here I am no longer boring and ironing you, I will take this opportunity. I have prepared the conclusion by respecting what Minister Bevanda is saying, here is that the fixed basis of 535 is very easy to come out of this problem to task the Council of Ministers to immediately, within 30 days at the latest, come up with a proposal to amend the Law on Payments and Refunds in a way that reduces the pay coefficient for one of the elected and appointed persons in BiH institutions and in the amount of 535 marks, and I think the matter will be resolved. Here, take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3801	Thank you. No more charges for discussion, closing the debate. 20 And now we shall declare first the conclusion of the College, and then the conclusions of fellow Bećirović and the other conclusions that come to the table. So, the conclusion of the College – College of the House of Nations according to a member... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'll read it individually, you can get them not a problem. Please multiply your conclusions and do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3803	It will be multiplied... you have to wait. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3804	Well, until we get to the bottom of this, it could've been multiplied before. So, let's come to the conclusion of the College – The College of the House of Peoples in accordance with Rule 127(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples proposes to shorten the amendment phase for the draft law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the year 2022. Is an hour enough? Yes, it is. And that the relevant Commission for Finance and Budgets of the House of Peoples submit its report on the Bill's Proposal at the end of the amendment phase, and that the follow-up of this session is being broken down and the vote on the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2022 in the second reading. Prepare to vote, let us vote for this conclusion. So present 11 - for 9, versus 1, abstention 1. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I find that this conclusion has been adopted, and I propose that we hold a debate on the other conclusions and give the Finance and Budget Commission an hour and continue the session in half two. Do you agree? You agree. Here we wait for these conclusions to be copied so that we can plead our conclusions. /Delegates waiting for the service to copy conclusions/ Since you've reached conclusions, it's easier for me now, I'm asking you to make a statement at the conclusion, you have conclusions ahead of you. 21 So, we declare, prepare the voting system, on the first conclusion of Mr. Denis Bećirović. Please vote. Present 11 - for 6, versus 5, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3, abstained no one. Republika Srpska – for 1st to 2nd, abstentioned no one. We have a general, we don't have an entity majority. We don't have any colleagues here, Čović. We'll go to the match later. Let's go to the conclusion of two colleagues, Denis Bećirović, to vote. At present 11 – for 2, versus 5, abstention 4. So we don't even have... _________(?) Let's do it again, please. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3808	Not until half past three, till half past two. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3809	By half past two, I'm sorry, until half past two, that the Finance and Budget Commission can finish the job if there's an amendment. I'll see you at 13:30. [[PAUZA]] I'm asking for a little patience, waiting for the Commission's opinion to be printed in sufficient numbers. /delegates await multiplication of the opinion of the committee responsible/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3812	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3813	There isn't. Thank you very much. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and if he has needs. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? But before that, I just want to say that there have been no amendments to the Commission on which you have pleaded, so only here if someone needs to renew the amendment orally, to discuss amendments so that we can make a business statement on the Budget Proposal in the second reading. Is there anyone who wants to orally renew the amendment, or to submit an amendment, so that possibility exists? So this is the amendment phase, I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much. We now declare ourselves, therefore, on the draft budget for 2022 in the second reading. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3817	Is there a debate? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3818	No, there are amendments because it's an amendment phase. Therefore, amendments may be discussed, the delegate may ordinarily propose an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3819	No microphone/ Can the conclusions be proposed?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3820	To repeat, the conclusions do not, the Rules of Procedure do not know when it comes to the budget of the conclusions. So here I have the conclusions that have already come, but I have explained that to the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3821	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3822	The amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3823	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3825	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also taking the opportunity to thank you on behalf of the Club and to wish you a successful presidency, here, since you have taken over the presidency of the House of Nations since this week.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3826	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3827	Here... and I hope that Bog will succeed. I, therefore, realized that through the debate we could propose a conclusion, but here, by returning us to the Rules of Procedure, we can only discuss amendments, we have tried to use the discussions that were in the first phase of Mr Miletić and Bećirević and the conclusions they have offered, in the break we have tried to formulate one conclusion that would go to amendments to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions that would reduce by 12.4% the coefficient of all employees from the coefficient 4 to the above, to the members of the BiH Presidency. So, we can't put that conclusion into business right now. What I also want to inform you is that the Bosniak Club will refer the law to 25 procedures, i.e. the urgent implementation of the Law amending the Law on Salary and Refunds in the BiH institutions, where we will count all of this and taxively, from coefficient 4, to members of the BiH Presidency. So we're not going as fellow Miletić suggested, for one coefficient, but we're going to go 12.44% for all the officials to the Bureau, and that these most vulnerable categories that we've discussed before this break we don't touch and let most of the budget users get what we actually deserve long ago. So, let's not further discuss the coefficients when they were adopted, when the basics were passed, I just want to say that out of the four present today at the Bosniak Club this session, you yourself said in the introduction that a colleague of Jusufović was rightly absent, the four present from the Bosniak Club signed this request and we will submit this request to the protocol today, that is, after the end of this session. I thank you, Chairman, and I wish you successful work.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3828	Thank you, too. Next thing you know, colleague Amir Fazlić, the correction of the wrong quote, has appeared. Here you go, Amire.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3829	In order not to get the wrong idea, I took advantage of the business opportunity to partially replicate in a positive part of my colleague, Sarajlić. Maybe he's not informed, or I haven't been able to inform him, we've come to a business situation, we know this is an amendment phase, I'm on the Commission that you've been on twice, in the first time there's been a discussion of principles, to put a conclusion on the vote, so you told me that at the House. So now I'm on second, when we were discussing the amendments, so you told me, so they also told me at the House. I just want to tell you that multiple times the Commission has had its conclusions on any points of the agenda and laws. We've tried democratic law here. Now we come here, calling on the Rules of Procedure, I congratulate you, not as Mr Asim, in the presidency, but I congratulate you on the procedure, that sometimes the procedure is respected, so now we come to a situation that we cannot even suggest, that we further demand from the Council of Ministers that what colleagues have tried through conclusions, and not, that we all vote for that conclusion, because today we have shown ourselves some will that we should cut these salaries, that we should not allow these salaries to be increased and all the discussion went in that direction. And now we're in a situation where we can't even suggest. I ask you to make it possible in front of the Club or me as a member of the Commission, because I am not allowed below to suggest this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3830	I thank my colleague Asim Sarajlić. Bariša Čolak...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3831	Thank you, Mr. President. I just called to stick to the Rules of Procedure. So at this stage, we can't vote on the amendments, because there is no amendment. It is voted on by the final text of the Law, it is simply a business procedure and we must respect it. The conclusions are something else, but we're talking about, and we shouldn't be discussing anything else right now, because we simply can't discuss the Law anymore, we can't discuss amendments, we can't vote on them because they're gone, and we need to make a statement about the Budget itself, about the Law, so. It's a simple legal procedure. As far as the conclusions go, it's something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3832	I thank my colleague, Čolak. I have the same interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. A fellow Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3833	Well, please, I agree with the interpretation, but don't quote here at least 10 times when we've all been breaking our rules of procedure, there's no colleague who isn't, when you executives have allowed some things, but don't let us go any further. We have an extremely complex situation when it comes to Budget, perhaps that conclusion will affect some MPs' vote for Budget. So please, it's never been this situation, it's never been this situation. The public expects a reduction of wages and please allow me to suggest a conclusion....
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3834	I thank my colleague, Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3835	Well, then he's voting on Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3836	Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3837	I just want to repeat that at the beginning of the session I very clearly proposed a way out of this emerging situation, the exact formulation of the agenda point and the proposal for a conclusion, and that today was rejected, so there was no majority to discuss. In my first reading, I once again suggested concrete conclusions on how to overcome this situation, and yet it was not accepted. We simply need to realise that the BiH Council of Ministers unanimously made a mistake that clearly cannot be corrected here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-06-30-0.u3838	I thank my colleague Bećirović. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Let's come out, we're voting on the draft law on the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for the 2022nd reading. Get ready. At present 11 – for 8, v. 2, abstention 1. So we have a general, we have an entity majority and I realize that we have adopted the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH for 2022. 27 Dear ladies and gentlemen, I realize that we have completed the 12th emergency session of the House of Peoples. I'm closing the session, and you'll be notified of the next session in time. Thank you very much. Session completed at 1:58 p.m.
