ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10949	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, honored guests, I am opening the 26th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. We will now hear the anthem of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I warmly welcome all present MPs, MPs, as well as distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from today's session was justified by representatives of Nada Mladina, Predrag Kožul, Dženan Đonlagić and Adil Osmanović. The BiH Council of Ministers' Office has notified us that President Zoran Tegelti will not be able to attend the session. The Office of Justice also announced that Minister Josip Grubeša will also not be able to attend the session, as has Minister Vojin Mitrović. At this point we have a quorum, the session is attended by 25 MPs, so we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda, will allow lawmakers to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Zukan Helez Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Edita Đapo Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, Aida Baručija Minister of Foreign Affairs Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Minister of Security of BiH Mijo Matanović of Foreign Affairs and Damir Arnaut of the BiH Council of Ministers. These announcements are and these announcements are in accordance with Rule 168 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Council of Ministers and that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. Once again, I would like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided and in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to counsel Zukan Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10950	Honored chairman, co-chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives, representatives of international organisations. My question is addressed to the Minister of Finance at the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, and that is to say – we also know the representatives and you, Mr Bevanda and the whole bh. to the public that 13 MPs from the smaller bh. The entity hasn't been present for months. As far as I'm aware, even though they don't attend the sessions, they don't do their job, they get paid and other fees neatly. Is it possible for a man to receive compensation for two separate lives and from whom he is separated? Is he separated from the family or is he separated from Parliament, this House? He gets a neat break and gets a salary that is not small, which is 4500 KM, and all of the total receipts are from 5500 to 6000 KM. I ask you what would happen if the miner came and said, "I'll come to work, but I won't go down to the pit." He probably wouldn't get paid, but he's a miner, so he'd be having some controversies. To come the doctor and say – I'll sit in the office, I won't take anyone to work, too, you've been sanctioned, and I won't list you. I'd like you to tell me since you're the finance minister -- who signs these salaries, who allows these people to get paid? And I will personally examine with lawyers whether he has the basis for abuse of office and authority because it knowingly damages the budget of this High House and Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10951	Thank you. Answer, Minister Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10952	Good afternoon, everyone. I wish you were all well and healthy. I will fit in at the time that was left for me to answer, with a note that Mr. Helez had asked the same parliamentary question in writing, so let me say right away, and the Ministry of Finance prepared an answer, delivered it to the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers on 19.01 by the procedures that are going, and now I will answer your and oral questions. The payment of salaries and fees paid to the BiH institutions shall be carried out in accordance with Article 52(1) of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions and Article 30. The law on the financing of institutions. The payment itself shall be made by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury using a centralised payment system, based on the information entered into that system by institutions that have access to the same. In the event that institutions do not have access to that system, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury shall enter on the basis of the documentation submitted. In particular, given that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has a concrete access to the system, they are entering data into the system. The responsibility for the accuracy of the data entered is, therefore, in the services of the Parliamentary Assembly, keeping records in the presence of an employee in the institution and in the jurisdiction and responsibilities of the institution in which the staff are established equal status. Here, specifically, correctly, apolitically and legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10953	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10954	Of course. As I understand it, I have known for a long time the Minister of Finance, Mr Bevanda, since Parliament of the Federation, he has neatly and as he is, removed responsibility from himself and transferred it to the BiH Parliament. So, in the follow-up procedure, I'm going to investigate everything, who's delivering information that people are here, that they're coming to work, and I'm going to file a criminal report for all of this. 3 I would like to remind you that we are introducing a very bad precedent into this House of Commons. What if the next term happens for a man or a person to be chosen as we are now and doesn't come to any session? He will either sit at home or do some other work, and will earn about 300,000 marks in the four-year term. I'm telling you it's a very dangerous precedent, what we've done. I know when I was in the Federation Parliament if you're late, you don't come to a working body and bounce away from the cobwebs. If you don't come, you haven't justified it, it's way off pay. And I don't think there's anything in the world that we're doing. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10955	Thank you. BiH Minister of Communications and Transport Vojin Mitrović delivered a written response to the issue of distinguished deputies Edita Đapo, since he is unable to attend the session. Is that okay? Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10956	Here, if you'll allow me to chair...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10957	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10958	I would, uh, ask a question, and of course, if it's a written answer, then there's no other way, of course I'll accept it. Certainly, since the minister is not present, I would ask him to send it in writing anyway. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2019, the Ministry of Transport and Communications formed a Transport Security Council and my question to the Minister was anything that the Council has done so far and what it intends to do in the following year, that is, this year. I think this is very important and therefore I draw attention, because when statistics are looked at, BiH is at the beginning of the EU in a state of security in traffic with a very large number of accidents and deaths and injuries in these accidents. For example, if we look from 2017 to 2020, there were approximately 140,000 accidents in BiH with 28,000 or slightly more than 28,000 dead and badly injured. So that's one city the size of a Knight. Although here by statistical data, of course, in the '20s. The year is a slightly smaller number of accidents compared to another year since it was a year of crown, lockdown, police watches and so forth, I think it is very important that this Council is activated and that they give professional advice, recommendations, opinions on the implementation of the strategy and on the depravation of all, is it, these samples that cause such a large number of accidents because we are much, much above the EU standards that have 50 dead per million inhabitants over the year, and we have over 70. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10959	Thank you. I now give the word to the MPs of Aida Baručija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10960	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. 4 The Minister is not there, but I ask the question on behalf of BiH citizens who live and work in Germany and who were forced to give up their citizenship of BiH because the new German government is preparing for the reform of the Law on Citizenship and the plan is to permit more citizenship which has not been practiced so far, my question would be – would the Foreign Ministry be to protect the interests of citizens who live and work abroad have done anything about this and if it wasn't planned because it was a great interest for the citizens to return to BiH citizenship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10961	Thank you. There's no minister, there's no one in front of the Ministry. Let's move on, I give my word to MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10962	Thank you, Chairman. My question is to the Minister of Security. Since May of last year, I have been leading my parliamentary issues to work on border crossings where there are no BiH tables, and also to remove illegally placed boards of entities, therefore illegally in terms of the applicable law and sublegal acts. So, I am, at border crossings, competent authorities have three institutions, the Ministry of Change and Communication, the Ministry of Security and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. After I received very exhaustive answers to what could be at the border crossings, what look, what dimension, etc., I asked the question of who is responsible for removing illegally placed tables at the border crossings that are even set, here at some crossings and before the board of BiH, of course many larger gauges, in the border area, or who is in charge, therefore, of setting up tables where they are not? I've asked these three institutions a question, and since it usually happens in our country, you don't really know who's in charge. Here, I still have, I still have the Ministry of Security, namely from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the answer I received is that the removal of the other boards, which are not in accordance with the law and the sublegal acts, which, within the meaning of that law and the Regulation are not considered to be borderline signalling, are the institutions that have set up the tables or have granted approval for them, that is the response of the Ministry of Transport. I do not know which institutions other than these three in the border belt could grant such approvals, and in particular who could set them without authorisation and how this could happen at border crossings, and I was given the answer from the Directorate for indirect taxation that the designation and maintenance of the markings and other traffic signals at the border crossings in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Communications and Transport as prescribed in Article 18. The law on border control, not in the jurisdiction of the Directorate for indirect taxation, and so the Administration is not in charge of this. Here, I am, therefore, asking now and the Minister of Security since it is the third institution who in some way is responsible for these issues – who is responsible for removing illegally placed tables at border crossings? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10963	Thank you. Minister, here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10964	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs and representatives and colleagues from the Council of Ministers. Representative Marinković Lepić asked this question in early September, and a response was sent to the ministry of security in due time. I will give the key elements of this response to this esteemed House and the public, and of course if MP Marinković Lepić asks for some details, he can get them before he officially gets them from the Council of Ministers. Thus, the Law on Border Control, which was first published in the Official Messenger in 2009, and its additions were published in '10. and in '14, jurisdiction is prescribed to mark the border crossing, tag setting, signboarding, signalling and control of the crossing. The esteemed representative has already said that the Ministry of Communications and Transport is responsible for marking and other traffic signalling at the border crossing, that the Directorate for indirect taxation is responsible for works of construction, construction, reconstruction, management and maintenance of facilities and infrastructure at border crossings. There is a Regulation on the format, content, marking and other signalling to mark the border crossing published in the Official Messenger of '10. the years where detailed and more specific measures and procedures for the identification of border crossings, the way in which the markings and signals are placed and the Regulation explicitly prescribes that no other signalling, marking and inscriptions may be set for those prescribed by the Regulation. For more information and a request from the Ministry of Security asked the Border Police to verify all this information and to remove any markings and signals that do not comply with the said Law and the said Regulation. And that information from the border police contains a lot of details of respected MPs, you can get it if you're interested in it. What I would particularly like to stress here is that the existing Law and Regulation do not prescribe sanctions for those who do not respect or respect the prescribed measures to mark the border crossing. The new law that is in the procedure, it imposes sanctions on the setting of illegal marks at border crossing points, which we expect will result in the removal of such occurrences in the future. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10965	Thank you, Minister. Would you like to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10966	Of course I want to comment. I mean, the minister said in 90% of his answer what I already know, and I listed it, so, on the very question that by regulations and laws, he can't do this or that. So, I didn't need this as an answer, I needed an answer to the question – who is in charge of the illegal designation being removed? So, I have not received that answer from any institution that has certain powers at border crossings. I would like to be answered in writing, and I would certainly be interested in this information regarding the Border Police, what the Border Police did because I almost crossed a border crossing where there is still an illegal board, and I will refer this issue to the Council of Ministers again, so here, I hope that the ministers will agree at the sitting itself who has jurisdiction to remove the tables.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10967	I now give the word to counsel Matanović. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10968	I use the opportunity to welcome all present today's session and, since the beginning of the calendar year, I wish all my colleagues good health and successful work in 2022. My parliamentary question has been addressed to the foreign minister and as I see it is not present for today's session. I'll read it, but I'm using the right to ask for it again if I don't get an answer. The question is – is it true that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina lost ownership of the building in which the BiH Foreign Ministry is located? In the course of discussions and daily comments on state property, which has recently focused on all political actors in BiH, the International Community and the general public, BiH has lost some of its assets in my knowledge. It is the building that the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the key BiH institution, is located in. The question is, why, and by what right, and on what basis, on the basis of which legal framework has there been a registration of ownership rights on state property, and why have the BiH institutions, first and foremost, failed to act to prevent it? Without prejudicing the outcome of the procedure, I call on the competent services to make maximum involvement in the state-owned process in question, and hastening action to protect BiH's interest. Since I don't have an answer, I'm looking for detailed chronology of the dispute itself to be delivered to me by written means.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10969	Thank you. Let's move on, I'm giving counsel to Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10970	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and can be answered by anyone from the Council of Ministers, especially if he is ready – will Bosnia and Herzegovina receive candidate status for membership in the European Union this year? If there's no answer then I want to comment on the fact that the answer is not given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10971	We don't have a Council of Ministers chairman, we can only... Here you go, commentary, some written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10972	Thank you very much. Well, you see, so the question has been addressed precisely because of the fact that in 12 days it will be six years from now, since the chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr Dragan Čović, submitted an application for membership in the European Union. Croatia waited a year and three months for candidate status, Montenegro for two years, Serbia for two years and four months. So, we are now waiting here three times than the average in the region and the absence, not only of the Council of Ministers chairman, but of the whole Council of Ministers, except for the two ministers I see here, the absence of an answer shows me that we will welcome the seventh anniversary, so February next year, without candidate status. It is particularly hypocritical that the foreign minister's permanent claim is that, on his 7 journeys of lobbying for candidate status, we, I quote from December of last year, less than two months ago, that BiH is quoted - one step up to that status. That's not true. The European Union has given us a clear task, the candidate status can only be obtained by the activities here, in this Parliament and in the Council of Ministers building, not by alleged lobbying anywhere because the European Union has said – here you adopt three laws, make progress on 14 priorities, and the candidate status is there. It's a very clear task, do a, you get b. And here in institutions where candidate status can be obtained, there is neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers, nor the foreign minister, the Deputy Prime Minister's Board of Directors will not answer the simple question of whether we will get candidate status this year, and therefore we will not. All these questions about alleged lobbying for candidate status are therefore waste of money and fraud of citizens. Citizens Need to Know BiH will receive candidate status in the way it depends on them. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If they choose other forces in October that have shown concrete examples of being able to meet, they will know And they can work in the interest of the citizens. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10973	We thus exhausted the oral questions of counsel. We're moving on to the agenda. Before that information that the following points have been removed from the previous agenda, bearing in mind that the Joint Committee on Human Rights has not held its session: point 7. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2020, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-04-1-1412/21 of 08.07.2012 point 8. Special Report on the Efficiency of Legal Solutions in the area of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01.02-37-1188/21 of 30.09.2021 Point 11. A special report on the hate speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted by the Human Rights Institution of BiH, issue: 01.02-37-1-2230/21 of 27.12 2021, Point 12. Consideration of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut's initiative to require the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to establish a procedure and start the process of issuing a single COVID-19 certificate with QR code within 14 days of the adoption of this initiative, with the aim of using them outside Bosnia and Herzegovina in one of the following ways: 1. issuing such certificates by the Ministry itself, on the basis of certificates of vaccination/painted COVID, which the Ministry shall obtain from the competent entities, cantonals and bodies of the Brcko District, i.e. attestation of those competent authorities which the citizens themselves deliver to the Ministry, 2. establishment and delivery to the specified competent authorities of the single form for issuing such certificates by those bodies, number: 01-50-1797/21 of 28. 09. In 2021, point 16. Reviewing the initiative of MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which requires the BiH Council of Ministers to end within 90 days the process of harmonising 8 legislation in the area of protection of personal data with the newly adopted regulations of the European Union, No. 01-50-1973/21 of 27. Ten. 2021, and earlier point 9. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2019, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-2070/21 of 15.11.2021, because the Finance and Budget Komsija did not hold a session and earlier Point 10. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020, applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-2175/21 of 13. 12. In 2021, because the Joint Defence and Security Commission did not hold a session either. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda you've received. There are no reports. I hereby conclude the debate and conclude that for the 26th session of the House of Representatives, we have the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th and 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of Representative Damir Arnuat to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2236-1/21 of 29.12.2021; 4. Representatives Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija's request to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-107/22 of 17.01.2022; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on traffic safety on roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1-1904/21 of 14.10.1921 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-2100/21 of 29.12.2021, shortened procedure (first reading); 7. Considering the initiative of Representative Saša Magazinović, who is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, to submit a legislative solution within three months of the parliamentary procedure introducing a mandatory medical examination for elected and appointed officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which includes special testing of mental and psychological capacity to perform public functions, as well as testing of psychoactive substances, the number: 01-50-1925/21 since 19.10.1921; 8. Reviewing the initiative of MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which requires the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt a strategy for the fight against corruption for the period 2020-2024 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the 2020-2024 Strategy, issue: 01-50-1971/21 of 27.10.1921; 9 9. Reviewing the initiative of MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which is ordered by the BiH Council of Ministers to submit the Law on State Property to the legislative procedure within 30 days, No: 01-50-1-197221 of 27.10.1921; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on common locations at the border crossing points and the Annex to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on common locations at the common location at the Bratunac border crossing (Novi bridge) – Ljubovija (Novi bridge), No: 01,02-21-1-83/22 since 11/0122; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the grant agreement for technical assistance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP Autoway FBiH d.o.o. Mostar and the European Investment Bank, in connection with consulting services for the construction of Corridor 5c in Bosnia and Herzegovina (sub-divisional Holiday – Zvirovići) WB19-BiH-TRA- 01, issue: 01,02-21-1-89/22 since 12.01.2022; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Funding and Project, concluded on 17.12.2019 (primary Agreement on Finance and Project) between KfW, Frankfurt na Majna (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina (primal), representing the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Ecology of the Republic of Slovenia (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project), amounting to EUR 10,000.000,00 – Energy efficiency in public buildings, issue: 01.02-21-1-97/22 of 13/01.2022; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on border crossings, number 01,02-21-1-98/22 since 13/01,2022. So that's the agenda. Let's move on, point one A. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th and 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the records. If we have certain objections, please open the debate. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10975	Good afternoon, nice hello to my colleagues, colleagues, all present in the hall. So, I would have had one, a proposal to supplement the minutes of the 24th session of the House of Representatives on page 7, i.e. under point 3, where a decision by the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers was discussed, yes, on the launch of the procedure for the replacement of Minister Podžić. So, in the third paragraph, where they participated in the debate, so lists us all, I would suggest adding the text – Nikola Lovrinović has proposed the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the proposal in a way to propose and replace Minister Turković and Minister Cikotić as well. Furthermore, the chairman did not accept the proposal. So, to add that to the record. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10976	Okay, thanks. No more reports. According to the stenogram, exactly what Mr Lovrinović said during the debate on this agenda point will be checked, and if he insists, it will be adopted and placed in the record exactly what was his comment and part of that discussion. Okay, let's move on. Point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in written form were asked by MPs: Saša Magazinović 6 questions, Damir Arnaut 12 and asked for an initiative and requested an emergency reference to the answers provided, Aida Baručija asked 34 questions, requested a reference to the urgent answers provided, Mirjana Marinković Lepić asked 18 questions and also asked an emergency for the delivery of answers, Saša Magazinović asked 4 questions, and Zlatan Begić, Dženan Đonlagić, Zukan Helez, Nenad Nešić and Nikola Lovrinović asked four questions. The following answers were submitted to today's session: 25 responses, one response to the initiative and one answer to the information on the issue were provided to Damir Arnaut. At the question of Aida Baručija, 56 answers and 3 notifications were submitted on the issues raised, and 36 replies and one notice on the issue were submitted to Mirjana Marinković Lepić. Five answers were provided to Saša Magazinović's questions, and one answer was submitted to questions by Nermin Nikšić, Jasmin Emrić, Adil Osmanović and Dženan Đonlagić. Do any of the esteemed MPs have any comment on the answers they have received? Niko's answering, we're moving on. Point three Ad. 3. The request of Representative Damir Arnuat to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-2236-1/21 of 29.12.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10979	Thank you, Chairman. So this is the third time I deliver the same bill, each time it was adopted in the House of Representatives, but it was shot down in the House of Peoples. It is about limiting the amount of severance allowances for retirement when it comes to primary elected officials, 11 so ministers, MPs, directors, etc. Currently, these severances are not limited by anything other than the salary of the official himself so that we have and we have a situation in which the BiH Council of Ministers and ministers receive more than 30,000 KM withdrawals to retire and re-establish their status, working-law status in a given institution the day after they are allegedly retired. This bill would not remove any severances, especially to civil servants who would remain as they are in the same amount, only the effects of this law would be felt by elected and appointed officials, for whom the severance in such an amount certainly does not meet their basic objective, which is to facilitate the transition when a person is transferred from salary to retirement. I'm talking about people who at no time are being transferred from salary to retirement, but a day later, they re-design work-legal status. As I said before, I suggested three times, every time it passed in the Predator House, it fell every time in the House of Peoples. When I explained this same question two years ago, exactly two years ago, in January 2020, I pointed to the fact that... the research has shown me that at least 17 officials I spoke about in these institutions during this term will get the right to these truly fabulous amounts that, that irony is greater, they can't even deny, I can donate them but that's not it. You can't donate public money, so the point is to fix this systemically. And that's when I pointed out that at least 17 officials in this term will be entitled to severance, this has proved to be true and so, by the whole College of the People's House, Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Nikola Špirić, Mr. Dragan Čović, have, in that very period, gained the right to severance, I can't tell them whether they were still paid, there have been various media texts, but unless it's the only reason why this blockade is the institution and the non-session of a commission, in any case it follows them and it will get it. If this law had been passed two years ago in the House of Peoples, it wouldn't have. So it's really time for this issue to be resolved. The urgency of the procedure is justified in many ways, the first thing, the first time I proposed this Law, he passed a complete commission phase, two readings in the House of Representatives, so everything is known about him. Last time he was in an emergency procedure, there's no need to go through the commission phase again and, of course, it's about a simple way that's been conceived in such a simple way that it can be adopted in a single reading. I would only ask, taking into account information from the Extended College, that MPs from Republika Srpska will not attend the session, but will reportedly come to the vote at the end of the day, that the chairman decides to take the emergency voting procedure at the end of the day along with all other votes in order to have conditions for the ethnic majority as well. It is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure. The practice of voting during the session was ruled out by the conclusion of the last call. The Rules of Procedure in this sense have never been changed. It makes sense when everyone is present, however, given that we do not have MPs from Republika Srpska here, and that they announced the coming during the vote, I pray that the urgency of the vote with all other points, and I will then, behold, give up the interest of the time of discussion on the very essence of the law, given that I have less covered it through this exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10980	Okay, I consulted with the secretary, so the Rules of Procedure say the House decides on the urgency of the proceedings after the debate. This was now a debate, because then only the vote goes, and it won't be possible if an emergency procedure was adopted to actually open a debate about the bill itself. So, here we go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10981	Well, yes, it stands in the Rules of Procedure after the debate on the Bill's Proposal, so we haven't, we haven't had a debate on the Bill's Proposal yet. I, you see this is in the interest of the citizens. So we have a situation that Republika Srpska MPs will come to this vote, if we vote now on urgency there will be no entity majority because people are not there, so I'm not prejudicing anything, the fact is that they are not there. There is no Mr. Radmanović, you can't hold consultations, we can't go to the second round right now, and then we won't be able to vote at all tonight, or vote on the bill's proposal this afternoon. This is, above all, a reasonable suggestion that this vote be made both on urgency and on the bill, if the emergency procedure goes through, done when they're here.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10982	Yes, therefore, there is a position (3) here says that when a request for urgency is carried out, then the vote is then adopted if it is to go through the urgent procedure of the House to continue the debate and vote on the bill itself. So we would break one practice to keep only the vote at the end of the House of Representatives' work, and that's how we're gonna decide this time. Members of Republika Srpska's entity will come to the next session we will quickly schedule, and in this sense there will be room to decide immediately on the urgency of the session itself. Representative Arnaut. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10983	Okay, chairman, but everyone knows that I'm really going to remind you of this decision whenever it goes past practice, if it's a budget and something that wants to break over your knee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10984	Thank you. Now we'll make a statement, if there's no more reports, and there's no... We'll get to the bottom of this. We'll get to the bottom of this. We'll get to the bottom of this. Here you go. So there's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, because unfortunately not one MP that comes from the territory bh. Republika Srpska's entity is not present. An emergency procedure has not been accepted. We're moving on, point four Ad. 4. Representatives Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija's request to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1- 107/22 of 17.01.2022. The legislative and legal sector has delivered its opinion. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Does anyone have a report? Dear representative Lepić. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10986	I would like to stress immediately that it has been exactly two years since the Constitutional Law Commission of the House of Representatives unanimously supported my parliamentary initiative to amend Article 43 (1) of the Law on Labour in BiH Institutions. I then submitted two initiatives, so one referred to this member alone, deeming it urgent to adopt him because it is the parents of the disabled child if both workers are employed, and the other initiative was therefore to form a working group for making changes and supplementing the Labour Act in BiH institutions. So, uh, the amendment of this member was then considered urgent and as such and voted, but here, after two years we still don't have a change of that member. The request for an emergency procedure is fully justified since it is only one member and since it is indeed a shame that the BiH institutions' Labour Act does not, therefore, treat this issue. According to the current provision, only single parents have the right to do so, and therefore the laws of both entities, i.e. these provisions, are formulated so that if both parents are employed, one of them has the right to part-time. I think it's a shame that, for two years, this one member of the law has not changed and, behold, I consider my request for an emergency procedure, except that it meets these conditions in the Rules of Procedure, therefore, from Article 130. The Rules of Procedure, really justified, considering, here, that and who it's about.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10987	Thank you. No more reports. We're pleading for an emergency procedure. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, so the law goes to alignment, like this one. We're going to point five Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Basics of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1 1904/21 since 14.10.1921 (first reading) The legislative and legal sector has delivered its opinion. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. It has been established that the draft law is in line with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. The Transport and Communications Commission also delivered opinions and supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10989	Thank you, Chairman. These amendments and additions to the Law strengthen sanctions for the destruction of traffic signs in a way that destroys the sign by dyeing or otherwise, by painting or covering one of the two letters, therefore, Cyrillic or Latin. Currently, destruction or 14 damage to traffic signs is prescribed by the Security Act, i.e. the ban is prescribed by the Traffic Safety Act, and penalties are provided for in the range of 100 to 300 marks. However, the fact is that the traffic signs in BiH are most destroyed this way, to repaint one of the two present letters. There is no doubt that whoever travels around BiH sees that this is the most common form of destruction of traffic signs, so this suggests that the existing sanctions are obviously not adequate and that they need to be sharpened. This Bill proposal, therefore, only tightens existing sanctions, instead of 100 to 300 marks, prescribes 400 to 1000 marks of criminal punishment, as well as the obligation to notify the D.A., taking into account that I at least see no other motive to repaint one of the two present letters on the traffic sign other than hate, and this also causes fear and discomfort both in the return population, so from anyone who passes along with such signs, this is a phenomenon that needs to be contained, and in each orderly system, the sanctioning is carried out by tightening when it is noted that the existing ones are not adequate. In this regard, I am extremely pleased that the Ministry of Transport and Communications has very clearly supported this bill. This was visible from the presentation of the representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications at the meeting of the competent Commission for Transport and Communications. The Constitutional Commission adopted this proposal without debate two days ago, or supported the constitutional legal basis. I call upon all my colleagues to support this law unanimously. It's really not justified in this case even to be abstentioned. I hope that in this term we can adopt at least one law unanimously if there are conditions, that's this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10990	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda number six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2100/21 of 29.12.2021, shortened procedure (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion. The BiH Justice Ministry has provided the addition of materials, provisions of the law that are being amended, as stated as missing in the original Opinion of the legislative sector. The College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent, and the Constitutional Legal Commission has delivered its Opinion establishing that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and the principles of the bill have been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving to agenda number seven, Ad. Seven. Discussing the initiative of Representative Saša Magazinović, who is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a legislative solution within three months of the parliamentary procedure introducing a mandatory medical examination for elected and appointed officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that includes a special test of 15 mental-psychological abilities to perform public functions, as well as testing of psychoactive substances, issue: 01-50-1925/21 since 19.10.1921
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10993	I thank the chairman. Here, yes, and I've been very brief since we talked about this. So three years ago, I filed this initiative. That's when my colleague's reaction was that it was populist. I said okay, if you think so, I'll pull her back and then I pulled her back. Now that I put her in the process, then all those who said it was populism said - this was what we needed a long time ago. The essence of the initiative is the following, civil servants and deputies are obliged to carry out a medical examination when establishing a working relationship. So, the maid at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is obliged to pass a medical examination. Niko of us MPs or ministers are obliged to do so. To begin with, it is totally unnecessary discrimination, because I don't know why the MEP would not go through a medical examination, like any other employee. On the other hand, we live in such a time, and unfortunately there is a public confirmation that not only is high - function carriers in society different from some average society when it comes to drug consumption. What is the difference between the damage that it does when it does any other individual in relation to those who make decisions concerning the whole state and citizens is unfortunately the reason why I suggested that a review of mental-psychological ability to perform public functions, but also testing for the use of psychoactive substances, is required. I'm sorry that my colleagues from the SNSD aren't here because I expected their support for this because of a recent case involving a member of the Bureau, Mr. Dodik, whom he was found with, I think, cocaine and who admitted to enjoying it. I am now speaking for myself, personally some political moves that lead, which politicians with great power not only at the state level, really sometimes associate that these people are being drugged, but I don't want to point a finger at anyone, but I just want those who have great power to manage a large number of lives and fates to be, if nothing, respecting the difference in political attitudes, mentally and psychologically capable of performing these functions, and really clean of what we call, whether, drugs and that nothing can interfere with them in that sense, in performing their functions. I think this is an initiative that, I don't get into details, although I'm also talking to people who are waist, I actually found out that this is very easy to implement, but here, let the Council of Ministers say what the best way is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10994	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to 16 Ads. 8. Review of the initiative by MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which requires the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt a strategy for the fight against corruption for the period 2020-2024 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the 2020-2024 Strategy, issue: 01-50-1971/21 since 27.10.1921 As competent to consider that initiative, the Home College appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission supported the initiative and referred it to a further procedure. I'm opening an initiative debate. The Honorable representative of Baruči.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10996	I thank the chairman. So, although we are at the beginning of 2022, the BiH Council of Ministers has not yet adopted a Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period '20-'24. This is particularly worrying when it comes to the fact that audit reports claim that concrete and effective measures are not being implemented to prevent corruption in practice. In practice, it has also shown that the most risky processes in the public sector are public procurement and employment. Since corruption in the public sector is spent on enormous taxpayers' resources, it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to start... fighting this problem, and the first step would certainly be to adopt the necessary documents, such as the Strategy and the Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10997	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on, Ad. Nine. Review of the initiative by MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which is ordered by the BiH Council of Ministers to submit the Law on State Property to the legislative procedure within 30 days, No: 01-50-1-197221 of 27.10.1921 As the committee responsible, the Home College appointed a Constitutional Commission which supported the initiative and referred it to a further procedure. I'm opening an initiative debate. The Honorable representative of Baruči.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u10999	I thank the chairman. In order to resolve the status of state property and put it into service in the interests of BiH and its citizens and citizens, it is necessary that the BiH Council of Ministers, in co-operation with the competent institutions, propose and refer legislation to the legislative procedure that will finally regulate the status of 17 state-owned assets. This is particularly significant, a number of BiH institutions are renting business premises to carry out their duties and large funds are being allocated for this purpose despite the fact that there are assets that are not in function and time of failure, and could be used for all levels of government in BiH. A significant problem, also, is the inability to adequately protect and return BiH's assets to the former Yugoslav republics, despite the conclusion of an agreement on the conflict issue. This issue is urgently resolved in order to finally put state property into office and protection from further collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u11000	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to agenda number 10. Ad.10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on common locations at the border crossing points and the Annex to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on common locations for the common location at the Bratunac border crossing (Novi bridge) – Ljubovija (Novi bridge), No: 01,02-21-1-83/22 of 11/01.2022 The Foreign Affairs Committee delivered its opinion. The Commission has established that the prior conditions for granting consent for ratification of the Agreement have been met. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to agenda number 11. Ad. 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the grant agreement for technical assistance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP Autoway FBiH d.o.o. Mostar and the European Investment Bank, in connection with consulting services for the construction of Corridor 5c in Bosnia and Herzegovina (sub-divisional Holiday – Zvirovići) WB19-BiH-TRA-01, issue: 01,02-21-1-89/22 of 12.01.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u11018	You can vote. It's still a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u11019	Okay. We'll do it again. I'm asking the service to do this technically a little bit. We repeat the vote. Ratification of the Agreement, we vote on it, on common border crossings. A total of 30 – for 27, no one was against, abstention 3. So there's a general and there's an entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Radmanović was again registered as abstention, he voted in favour. Please settle this question or vote with cards if it's not possible to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u11021	Repeat, repeat again.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-02-03-0.u11022	Let's do it again. Let's try it. Nikola, I apologize to you, but what, I think? You'll understand this information pain and so on. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're showing a vote. Here is the total of 30 – for 29, against no one, abstention 1. So there is a general and entity majority, which adopted the agenda point. Point 11. – Giving consent to the ratification of the grant agreement for technical assistance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the JP Autoway FBiH d.o.o. Mostar and the European Investment Bank, in relation to consulting services for the construction of Corridor 5c in Bosnia and Herzegovina (sub-divisional Holiday – Zvirovići) WB19-BiH-TRA-01, issue: 01,02-21-1-89/22 of 12.01.2022. Thank you. So, of the total 30 present - for 28, nothing against, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the Agreement. Point 12. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Finance and the Project, concluded on 17.12.2019 in 23 (Primary Agreement on Finance and Project) between KfW, Frankfurt on May (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina (primal), represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Ecology of the Republic of Slovenia (Primary Agency for the Implementation of the Project), amounting to 10,000.000,00 euros – Energy efficiency in public buildings, issue: 01.02-21-197/22 since 13/0122. Of the total attendance 30 – for 28, none 1, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the Agreement. Point 13. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on border crossings, number 01,02-21-1-98/22 since 13/01,2022. We are voting on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement. Of the 30 present – for 30, there is no one against, there is no one abstention. There's a general and entity majority. We agreed to ratify the Agreement. The agenda of today's session is exhausted. Thank you, I wish you every good thing, and you will be informed of the next session in good time. Thank you. Session completed at 14:26 p.m.
