ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2988	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, respected media representatives warmly welcome you and I am opening the 9th haste session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 14 envoys, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] counterpart Bakir Izetbegović announced a delay in coming to this session. For the 9th emergency session, I suggest the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 8th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on excise duties in Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, issue 02-02-1-298/22 of 11. 3. 2022. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Does anyone come forward for a word, any changes and additions to this agenda? We have a registered, registered colleague, Zlatko Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Forgive me, everyone, here, to spend my time saying goodbye, I will take the opportunity to warmly welcome you all in the hall and to wish you successful work. Mr. President, what I am interested in, given the documentation we received in today's agenda, and given the preamble to which you are calling, which is a member or article 58. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for calling an emergency or emergency session, I must also remind you once again that we on 11.03 means that we group of five deputies/delegates of this House have asked for an urgent and urgent session and that we have asked that one item of the agenda be added to it, but with consideration of the amendments and addition of two laws. So one law, this law in question, which is placed on the agenda and amending and supplementing the law when it comes to VAT. 2 So please, if you are able to explain to me how and in what way and with what right and where it says in the Rules of Procedure you have the right to minimise the request of the five envoys and to take down what we have asked for as a point of order, these are amendments and additions to the VAT Act, is that how much I have read and how much I understand myself in law, in article or Article 58, it does not stand anywhere? Indeed, what I want to ask you, I am not saying that when it comes to amending and supplementing that law are fulfilled, conditionally speaking, all procedures in order to consider it or to make a final decision whether or not we want to accept it, and in any case I think it must be found as a part of the agenda, and then eventually to agree whether all procedures within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure are fulfilled or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2990	Thank you. Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2991	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two interventions when it comes to the agenda and I think both are of capital importance to BiH. First of all, I would like to say that BiH state authorities must not be where they are obstructed, stalled, and especially not where the European path of BiH is blocked. European standards, European principles, these are not phrases, it is not fog, we must witness them with concrete works. Given this, I would like to say that today we have the opportunity to show our commitment to European standards and to accelerate our path to the European Union. Accordingly, I propose that we put three very important laws on our path to the European Union at today's session, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. I remind you, it is the laws contained in 14 priorities, which were delivered by the European Commission and if we adopt them, and already adopted at the House of Representatives, that BiH has the right to request a credible, credible candidate status for the European Union. I must say that there would be no dilemma for these three laws is solely the competent and responsible Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and we today have the opportunity to show whether we are truly in action and we are sincerely committed to European integration or that remains only at the level of phrases. The second intervention refers to the next fact, namely the 24th of February began the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, I waited for the first seven days to come from the strenna and the College of our House, where we too would plead as delegates in the House of Peoples on Russian Aggression in Ukraine. Since this did not occur on 02 March of this year, I submitted a request for an emergency session within three days and of course the text of the Declaration of Conviction of Russian Aggression to Ukraine. Unfortunately, the chairman did not show himself about this proposal, and you did not call an emergency session, and I think that even as we in the House of Peoples have to have our own views on it, as the whole world does. We cannot be neutral against Russian aggression against Ukraine, neutrality would mean that we are on the side of Putin's regime, North Korea, Eritrea and Syria, and we should not be on that side of history. With that in mind, I want to know – why didn't you call this session of the House of Peoples? If you can answer that, how could you suggest further about it? 3
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2992	Thank you very much, colleague Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2993	Is there an answer to this question?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2994	She's a kolegica of Majkić. You'll get, of course, the answer. kolegica Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2995	I have nothing to do with the agenda, but I would like to ask you as chairman of the House of Peoples, and because of the state of the public in connection with this session, especially that session planned for 24. I want you to say a few reasons why the session is scheduled as scheduled. I remind you, in the College, there are three members in the ranks of all three constituent nations and that without such a decision, the College cannot hold a meeting and that it is called 24. Then, at the request of five delegates, one from the SDA Club, where their president is sitting in the College and accepted a session for 24. Suddenly, Asim Sarajlić signed an emergency session. Well, I mean, we've created a public mess with this kind of behavior. So some are unprincipled, some are not adhered to by the rules laid down, some are not adhered to by the Rules of Procedure, this Parliament is increasingly less and less like parliament. That's why I think we're missing this information, and I, the chairman, ask you to say a few words, especially about the obligations of this previous time that have been on different levels, different places. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2996	Thank you too, colleague. We have a correction to the wrong quote, fellow Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2997	Mr. Chairman, I will not, of course, enter this part of you regarding your explanation and Mr. Bećirović and Mrs. Majkić, just to say what was in her discussion, and it is about my name. So, I am the chairman of the Bosniak People's Club, at the request of my fellow counterpart Bećirović, at the request of my counterparts Jusufović and colleagues Fazlić, who is from my party, so three delegates in the House of the Peoples, I, uh, put my signature on that request, so it was decided by the majority in the Bosniaks Club. Mr. Izetbegović is a member of the College, but he did not attend the club session. So, I made the club's decision to sign my signature on such a request. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2998	Thank you. And if you allow, given that this is also an scheduled session as an emergency session, to try to give a brief explanation, all of which, even if we don't go into further debates that can only lead to outsmart amongst us settled, I'd say, how we've been doing for a long time, but we can and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would say. The session was scheduled exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is true that before your signatures, we also had a Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH where we adopted all the points of the agenda agreed by the College and made two conclusions. One refers to, I will say briefly now not to quote, all of which you are about fiscal problems in BiH, and the other concerns the EU perspective of BiH, where both points of the agenda are requested to attend the first regular sessions of both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. And the initiatives on fiscal issues are addressed to the Council of Ministers that through their expert bodies and institutions they deliver a very clear indication, there is, among other things, defined any fiscal law that could mitigate the consequences of the damaged economic flows, possible recession that will be poured on us, up to what is basic, budget, the Global fiscal framework, the Law on Budget Implementation, etc. That was the conclusion that we also supported the three of us as members of the BiH House of Peoples' Colleges. We also held our session at which we agreed, as you colleagues have said, that we have a regular session that would cover all these points, that we can prepare them properly and in quality, estimating that any procedure in the laws that are part of fiscal, we must have a thorough analysis of what the consequences of any of our proposals, any of our decisions on the entire fiscal system in BiH, not only at BiH level, but entity, county, to municipalities and cities, because each of these, and we will see this later if we come to that, and when it comes to excises, it has its own resulting state from the municipality, city, county, entity to the state. So this regular session, hopefully, will be organised on 24th, would be all of these agenda points that we talked about, and this one that today is defined as the agenda point for this haste session. As regards the emergency session, it is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and there is no emotion only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the items of the agenda coming to this session must be adapted to our Rules of Procedure, prepared adequately so that we can correctly and properly conclude and make decisions about them. As for the addition of this agenda today, it is also now defined through these three laws, the truth is in regular procedure, but if you, colleagues Bećirović, insist that we vote on them, of course we can vote and finish that part of the job. I'm just going to suggest that I'm, I think, away from what we've pointed out is crucial today, that we have a quick session to make decisions about this fiscal problem. However, it's quite okay to do business again. I don't think there's any point in further explaining what our three, uh, members of the College and the Joint College have been up to, you've had enough information about it through the public. A colleague of Bosić's called in his word. Here's a colleague of Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u2999	So I don't think you have answered the question – why is the agenda different from the agenda, from the requirements signed by these five delegates, so why is there no law amending the VAT law at this session, because it is also defined as requiring five delegates to convene this session? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3000	I think I gave the answer. I'll do it again. This session is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, the item of the agenda you are talking about is regular procedure, because it is so defined in the Zatupni dom and it was an contribution, it must be fully equipped with the opinions of all our bodies when it comes to the House of Peoples of the BiH. It may be someone to answer, someone not to answer, but these are facts, it's the Rules of Procedure, it's true that we could speculate about it, so today just as a colleague Bećirović put this on the agenda, he could put that point on the agenda... so that we plead. It seems to me that we'll just waste time in our traditional, traditional habit of discussing something that doesn't make sense, because everything that's here today will be in harmony with the Rules of Procedure, nothing more or less, let everything else remain on our emotions personally. We have corrections to my colleague Bećirović's misquote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3001	I think we had to have an emergency session of the House of Peoples on excise duties the same day that the House of Representatives passed that law, if not that day then the next day. Unfortunately, we had to gather 1/3 of the House of Peoples delegates to come to today's session, which is not good anyway, and I absolutely disagree, if you unanimously adopted it at the College, that even for the 24th of March in these circumstances you call a session. But I've reported primarily now to see what's going on with Russia's proposal to condemn Ukraine's aggression, I've submitted a request, I've delivered the text of the Declaration, and you said you'd be obvious about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3002	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. My colleague Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3003	Mr. President, I really have no intention of contradicting you in any way, here, in relation to your argument, but here's what the cancer and Mr. Bosić is, he's also one of the delegates of the signatories, in fact, this document. Again, you have not answered my question – why has this document not been attached to the document for today's session? That was the first question. The second question, you three, as far as I understand myself in the Rules of Procedure, if I don't understand myself, please enlighten me legally – where does it say that you three have the right to remove anything from the demands of five delegates and actually minimise our request regardless of our content? So please direct me not a member or an article, an indent or some procedure where it says so. So it doesn't say anywhere and I'm asking you, so you have no right to do that, don't do that. Here, not to spread, as people say, the story goes on, it's going to be 24 or another day, and I want to accept your explanation, here, that you don't have enough analysis or I don't know what it is, all right, but you should've asked what it is to put on today's agenda, and then through the debate, under the supposed signs, to reject it or already do what you want. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3004	Thank you. kolegica Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3005	The replica of counterpart Bećirović, who says that it took the same day to be appointed to the House of Peoples. It is from the formerly seen, which is that the House of Representatives is declared a one - house home, and the House of Peoples serves to confirm what the House of Representatives says. I remind you again that the House of Nations is an equal home and that it has its Rules of Procedure and that it works in accordance with its Rules of Procedure and that the Chairman has just made it clear why this is not the point of the agenda, but you need to write and draw. And drawing means that if something came through the emergency procedure, it had to be found today and what it didn't, so there's no commission, there's nothing, it's going directly to the House, if it's not written that it's an emergency procedure then it can't be here today, but it has to go to the commission, get a commission opinion and only afterwards come to Dom. So read a little Rules of Procedure before insisting on some answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3006	Thank you, colleague Majkić. So, once again, for all the formal business conditions that have been met today are on the agenda, this is equally true, fellow Bećirović, and your signature on the request for an emergency session when it comes to war in Ukraine. Thank you very much. I.... Col. Bećirović please, correct the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3007	I really think that on February 24th, the biggest turning point happened in the 21st century, I think, therefore, at Russian aggression on Ukraine and that we have human and moral, and every other obligation to condemn that aggression. You are, I must admit, formally on that business side of the right, I did not ask for that request to be signed by five delegates, but I asked you to call on that session and to make our position clear, and it is that we respect international law, the UN Charter, that we are against aggression, against war, that we want to follow the European Union's foreign and security policy, and I believed that we can gather here in the House of Peoples. It was my idea. I'm sorry you didn't start such an initiative on your own from the College. Here, since you're not, I am, I delivered the text and I think it's a mistake, but everyone on the planet today not only in BiH leaves their public political trail, so let's leave a public political trail on this issue too.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3008	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. No more reports, closing the agenda debate. Coli Bećirović had a proposal to include three agenda points at today's session, so I'll take the lead, and we'll make a decision from point to point. 7 The first was the bill's proposal, meaning that today it should be included in the agenda of the draft law on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please initiate voting procedure for this proposal. Thank you very much. At present 14 – for 6, versus 8, there are no abstentions. Federation of BiH – 5 for, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. Thank you very much. Second proposal to supplement the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Please initiate the voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14 - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. Federation of BiH – 5 for, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. Thank you very much. And a third proposal to supplement the agenda, a proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act. Please initiate voting procedure. Attending 14 - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. Federation of BiH – 5 for, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. Thank you very much. We're moving forward on the proposed agenda. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 8th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Sarajlić, signed up. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3010	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in the preparation session of the Club for this emergency session, we discussed the minutes and found at the Club that the minutes were not exactly and precisely stated on the agenda we discussed, which is – the request of five delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to call an emergency session. We demand, here, by your chairman, the secretary to enter the full name of the agenda item. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3011	Thank you very much. I think the feast is justified, that it should be corrected the way you said it. I propose that we vote then, since there are no more amendments, on the minutes of the 8th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, along with this remarks by fellow Sarajlić. Please initiate voting procedure. Attending 14 – for 13, v. 1. Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against. Republika Srpska – 5 for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 8th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you. We're moving on to the two agendas today, Ad. 2. The request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excise Taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, issue 02-02-1-298/22 of 11. 3. 2022. You have received a request from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Expenses in BiH following a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of this House. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the bill at its 27th session, 09.03. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. So we're having a debate about the urgency of the procedure. Do you have anything to add? If you don't, thank you very much. We're closing the debate. So, we are voting on a procedure on whether or not we will consider the draft law by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122(?) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3013	Please, just before the vote. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3014	Excuse me, please. You should only sign up to that one.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3015	I'm sorry. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3016	kolega Špirić, here's no application, so yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3017	...a serious and complex subject, it's a moment that's not simple, and I'd like to be at the height of the task. It doesn't make sense that no one has any of the pronouns, and they passed the law on to us as an emergency procedure. So why, now I'm talking, so the explanation will depend on our relationship to the procedure, so, not the idea. So, we do not have as the House of Peoples, one of the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, the right to, without the proponents' explanation, therefore, pass the law by breaking other laws and the Constitution of BiH. So, we're not going into the measure of the need to be reduced, to help citizens and categories, but it's about not being respected, and that's why I think it's good, it's a serious problem, to be present here, so it's about proposing, and representatives of the Directorate for indirect taxation, because we're going to need their clarifications, and entity ministers, preferably if they can be present, so that we can talk about the measure of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3018	Thank you, fellow Špirić. kolegica Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3019	Dear colleagues and colleagues today are not, we do not have an easy task, I thought this task would be easier, because I expected that, as I was informed the House Chairman asked everyone who could help us make the decision, and that means entity finance ministers, here, Mr. Bevanda is here from the level of BiH, from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, to talk a little bit about the essence. What I tried to come up with to explain to myself what kind of decision I needed to make, it didn't help me, and there's nothing I could say, here's a guideline to go to. Many political parties in the year of the election are reaching for amendments and the Law on VAT and the Act on Excises, that is what all political parties are fantasizing about to register for themselves something that could be used in the recent elections, but it is not smart from the aspect of making the final decision what we get and what we lose. So, no, I'm sure there's no man in Parliament who thinks there's something you shouldn't do on, to cut oil derivatives prices. I think that's why we have a consensus, but there are a few questions that are strategic and that I need an answer for, and I trust other colleagues. The first question is - why is there no opinion of the Management Board of the ICC, which is in line with the ICC policy, essential to giving consent to these changes? It is not by chance, when the VAT Act was proposed, parliamentarians knew that each election would be preceded by an amendment to these laws, and that is why it was established ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3020	You go ahead, pal. [[no microphone turned on]] 10
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3021	And that's why what's done is done. So, if there are six people sitting on the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Board, of which three finance ministers, chairman, Mr Bevanda and two entity ministries. If there are three people who are experts in the area of indirect taxes, then it certainly means that they will analytically obtain everything that can help make this decision that Parliament makes right. The amendment of any of these laws in the area of indirect taxation cannot be ordered by either BiH finance minister, none of which is an accident. Another thing I'm also interested in – is there a written consent of the entities whether this, the adoption of this law, will make a problem for entity budgets? Which, in Republika Srpska, were long ago passed, when..., long ago last year, in the Federation, I don't know whether the budget was adopted or not, but here we don't have the BiH budget and it's not the scariest budget, the most frightening thing is that at this point there's nothing to say about what we need to have as information, and it's about the three-year fiscal framework, in which we need to move. Where are we when it is, we got in the 12th month last year information from the Ministry of Finance that no fiscal framework has yet been adopted, that means we have no basic rappers and elements to make such a decision. Well, then I'm wondering what this proposal came up with, or what the proposals that the elements had in mind, except for the populist one, that's clear, but let's see what we have to do to make it right? What if we were to adopt this and then leave this people without a pension because of the underprivileged flow of money in the budget? Will this one justify this, this one today, the adoption of this law if it happens? What kind of repercussion can this lead to? No one was obviously interested in it at the House of Representatives, because if anything had been submitted by these evidences that said it was urgent to do so immediately. They can't, they always say to MPs that they are universal ignorants and they can't be creators of such system laws, and they can't, without insisting on what consequences this country can have, they can't make such decisions. So, the House of Representatives could have made a mistake, and we can't make a mistake, because it always expects us to have a view through the bat, to better shed light on the problem than they do, we know what kind of laws they make. So, in public, they've created terrible things about how they care about the people, and here's the ones who are the distractions. I asked some people who told me, here you have this session soon, what does it look like, and what does that mean? And to my question – do you expect to get that pension, which is so big for you, but you get it every month, or do you expect to have a lower fuel price? Well, I wish I had a low fuel price, but pension is first of all. So that's only in favor of not making a mistake. I, I don't know why there's no one here today who's invited, we'd really care if they'd said their position. Because on what basis I have to decide, based on what the opposition individuals conclude, I cannot make such a decision, I have been in Parliament for years, I have been dealing with this and I cannot make such serious and important decisions for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3022	Thank you, colleague. We've been discussing the procedure now, of course everyone has a right and I see that we have three other candidates registered and everyone will get a business opportunity, I'm just afraid we'll get lost about the explanation and we'll go in that direction that wasn't the goal of today's emergency session, but business is that. The next one is registered by his colleague Bosić, a colleague of Bosić's, please be my guest. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3023	Thank you, Chairman. So, since you let Mrs. Majkić speak, I'll also talk about the whole thing. Why emergency procedures? Well, because it's an emergency, because there's been a war in Ukraine that's caused a disturbance and a sudden rise in prices, in such situations, every country's authorities have to react in a way to protect both the economy and the market and the citizens, so it's an emergency situation. What did our authorities do, what did the governments and entities and the Council of Ministers do? So they didn't discuss it at all, because they're obviously not interested in how to solve the situation with a sudden increase in fuel, they're not interested in the area that this in some way reflects on budgeting. And I guess it makes sense that in crisis situations authorities don't transfer all the burden of this crisis to citizens, I guess it's logical that the authorities say, and here's what we're going to give up in the budget, or we're going to put something in another plan for the citizens to get over this crisis, because this isn't just a fuel collection, this is a hoarding and other life supplies, because it's all included in the price of living supplies. Authorities, these authorities are acting like a nog, whenever a crisis situation is they stick their head in the sand and expect it to pass without any intervention and succeed in it, this is fascinating, I think there would be plenty of room here for studying in political sciences, whether a country can function without the government working, this is really a phenomenon. I can't accept that you didn't understand this moment, that you didn't understand the message of public opinion and because you didn't understand why the opposition jumped into that space and asked you to act. And the opposition has already succeeded with the help of the citizens to impose this topic and that's why we're sitting here and you're going to have to deal with this, you can postpone this by seven days, you can call the National Assembly, you can say it's not good because you won't get pensions, although pensions are not paid out of excise duties at all. So you can scare people, but in the end you'll have to do something. I sent a letter to the College before an initiative came to call this extraordinary session, with a proposal for the College to schedule an emergency session because of these conditions. So a non-binding letter of warning to the College. The college has scheduled a session for 24, showing that it does not have any empathy for those who are at risk of this situation and that it does not consider it to be of such importance that it should be met as soon as possible. What was the Department of Direct Taxation all these years doing that we don't have an analysis of what a differentiated VAT rate means? So we talk every year about the differentiated rate, in 2014, my party proposed to amend the VAT law with the deferencing rates and since then, someone who proposes to do so appears every year. So is it possible that the IRS has so far failed to run an analysis of what, what does it mean in which case and how to react in which case? How to react to the situation when we meet in a crisis...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3024	It's not her job. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3025	How come it's not her job to ask her for an opinion?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3026	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3027	You don't want to discuss it, you ask her for her opinion. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3028	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3029	Please, Chairman, make sure he doesn't get in the way.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3030	Comrade Bosić, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3031	So, the emergency procedure request, I don't even think we should explain why this is an emergency procedure. It is clear, because emergency circumstances are emergency circumstances and therefore the authorities, and this House of People, too, need urgent response to this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3032	My friend Bosić, thank you very much. Orders signed up by counterpart Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3033	The urgency of adopting these amendments to the Excise Act and the urgency of this session is absolutely undeniable, I guess it is clear to everyone in the BiH Parliament as well as to all citizens in BiH. Mrs. Majkić started asking a lot of questions, but she forgot about one fundamental thing, her mission should be here to give answers, not to ask questions. The SNSD has the prime minister, therefore, the first man of the Council of Ministers, has the highest ministers in the Council of Ministers of BiH, who has defended you for the past weeks, months, years, for you to propose something concrete from which people in both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities would benefit. And now that the opposition has suggested something, you're trying to bring that move down. I don't think it's a constructive policy. The opposition has made a move in the House of Representatives on the SDP proposal, which is in the interest of all people in BiH, here at the Hall is currently the SDP MP's head in the House of Representatives, counterpart Saša Magazinović, so we also have representatives. What I'm saying is that today we need to get the strength to help people in BiH in a concrete way. The moment Russia's aggression against Ukraine takes place for 21 days, at a time when nearly 2.5 million refugees, or more than that, flees from the war of the affected Ukraine to a number of European countries, at a time when we have certainly had a crisis and due to the pandemic of the Crown Virus, we have not had any measure by this Council of Ministers of BiH. I don't understand why at least today in the O.R. is not present as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija, where is this man? Has the Council of Ministers introduced any emergency situations across Europe, including in BiH, any emergency measures that would help businesses, citizens, anyone in BiH? If there's such a measure, someone here at the pay phone says who it is. Has the Council of Ministers made any plan in response to the relief of this crisis? There's no such plan. So whatever you ask the answer is zero. Even before what is happening in Ukraine and the citizens of BiH were faced with inflation and should have responded to that. We today and on this agenda point have both the right and the obligation to ask how the BiH authorities are, in this case we are competent and how should we ask, first of all, the BiH Council of Ministers, react, say, to agriculture? In what state are agricultural producers, do they need help, does anyone talk about it, does something really seem, if it seems to be why public 13 doesn't say it? How do you help the citizens? What are the economic measures of this Council of Ministers that will alleviate the BiH crisis? Now we're talking about the economic crisis. We all know that surpluses are never bigger, is it possible that we can't bring any measure to help people? The SDP proposal was adopted, whether, and at the House of Representatives, to reduce excise duties, specifically to reduce excise duties on petroleum products, therefore, for diesel fuel, oil, motor gasoline, unleaded, motor gasoline, lye oil, extra light and light special, liquid oil gas for motor vehicles, biofuels and biotechnology. We are convinced that the House of Nations has responded, as I said at the beginning of the session, at the time, immediately the day after the House of Representatives, without disrupting at all the equality of the House, and their orderly position, no one can do it, neither the House of Peoples, nor the House of Representatives, but that we understand the situation in which people would have a much better effect, but today we will have a better effect than if we did it in ten days. After all, you are also witnessing that this request is equally and sought and current and important for both people in Sarajevo, Mostar, Tuzla, and for people in Banja Luka and in every part of BiH, if that were not the case today, there would not be this emergency session. So there are all the reasons why we should discuss and adopt this proposal today. The adoption of this fine in no way disturbs the BiH Council of Ministers to start doing its job and to propose possible and other measures, and thus how to help citizens in our country. So today it would be good if we didn't spend this session on replicas, on any populistism, today it would be good to send people all over BiH a message that we are able to take a step forward, a positive step that people would actually feel. Is that enough? No, but that's why we all have to do everything we can to at least mitigate the consequences of this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3034	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. On the trail of your words, I will remind you once again, the procedure is on the agenda in the debate, of course, no one will be interrupted by business, with more or less skills you can express your thoughts about everything and everything through this agenda point, but if you really want to do it as you just said, that chance should be used. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3035	I can't help but answer Mr. Bećirović, since he told a lie. Ten years of debate over the introduction of a differentiated VAT rate with the Indirect Taxation Administration, at least ten years, and what response the management had for the whole time was, that this was a much simpler process, that we had a minimum rate and that, in the end, the European Union has been insisting more and more on one step as a means of processing and not only that, but also preventing further manipulations when it comes to this problem. So, the world didn't come when you showed up here, it's going on, there's this year when people talk about it and think, but we wait for those who say it's work, so the experts who need to tell us, not parliamentarians, because they don't have any arguments behind them, they can have a political attitude and this is the political position of the SDP, and I understand that, to whom they joined here individual representatives, delegates of the House of Peoples. Based on what? There's a lot of things that don't know each other, and that's why the dialogue between us is so difficult and painful. It takes a lot of things to go back, read a lot of things, and then 14 would be clearer to a man and not just insist on his own. The one who insists too much on his own, he doesn't really insist on anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3036	Thank you, colleague. Correction of the wrong allegations, counterpart Bećirović, another contribution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3037	Mrs. Majkić began her replica of words to correct the false and correct nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3038	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3039	You said it took ten years to discuss and discuss, obviously you didn't listen to my discussion. Did I say at any point that discussions and discussions do not last? I didn't. What did you fix? Nothing. When you talk about the SDP proposal, it is a SDP proposal, but it was adopted in the House of Representatives unanimously and became a proposal for a full House of Representatives, all political parties. Finally, a positive opinion on the proposal was given by the entity prime minister and one and the other, both Višković and Novalić, say so. And what did you correct when I said the Council of Ministers didn't work? If it were a normal situation for the Council of Ministers to work, if the first Council of Ministers working, coming from your party, the opposition would not have suggested it. We would have, one home and another, a proposal set of economic, social and all other measures by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and we do not have it. So it's not a lie, it's a naked fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3040	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. The next one applied for a hearing with counterpart Miletić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3041	Thank you very much, President. I'll try to really get back to the agenda domain and try to get back to the process debate. How urgent it is to do something for the citizens of this country in such a difficult economic situation, I will perhaps present it to you in a slightly unusual way, but here is Mr. Špirić's consideration, who said that we should have secured the presence of the promoter, here's the promoter in the meantime, I thank Mr. Magazinović, that we should have provided some of the heads of other agencies or possibly management, so, when I look back on that, it's a failure to organise the session itself, if you've already had a real intention to do this, you should have provided these people here and to say possibly your professional opinion, I have nothing against it. So, I am still standing at the point that we need to do this measure or this issue urgently, and, if you remember, I asked the House of Nations for a previous session of the Council of Ministers, not only this one, but I also mentioned the VAT and 15 other measures and activities expected by the Council of Ministers to take them. However, what I would really ask you, means, regardless of the fact that in this case the SDP suggests it, in the second case here is the VAT, as far as I'm concerned, the signator is Mr Mirko Šarović. So let my people free ourselves from this complex of what anyone proposes, if anything is good for the citizens of this country and for all the peoples it was Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak or others, I ask you to have it in mind, does the citizens need urgent help? Chairman, allow me, you've all received one letter today, and so a little discussion of mine will be unusual, but here I will read the address of a BiH citizen, and on this issue, you yourself assess the urgency. Mrs. Dragana Marić tells us this way, otherwise to point out dozens, hundreds, which individuals, individuals, businessmen address in this context, says: "Mrs. Parliamentarians with your unhappiness and boastingness you have completely done and made all the peoples of this country sick, the last in a long line of service are columns not to the gas stations, I went to one last night and it is better not to write to you what the broad masses want waiting for you in line for you both, and Fadil. Conscious people of the fact that this poor and hungry people will again be left to themselves while waiting for some new start of some new war and crisis, and prices are wild as never before. I won't appeal to your consciousness, our fellow citizen tells us, you don't have it, but I hope you will realize that you could finally cut off a branch on which you have been sitting comfortably for decades if you don't adopt a bill today on amendments to the Excise Act in BiH. So he says, at the price of a litre of diesel of 2.76 states takes a VAT of 0.40 that you put into your pockets, excises 0.30 that you put in your pockets, tolls to build a road of 0.20 that you don't build and tolls to build a highway of 0.20 that you don't build." That's the opinion of one of our citizens, you've all got this letter today, and we should really be embarrassed if we don't end this today in a way that, at the very least, one measure that, in my opinion, will not represent something extraordinary, but there will be hope and a shift for these people, everyone in this country, that we are trying to do something about the economic stabilisation of the situation in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3042	Thank you. The next one was registered for discussion by fellow Špirić, a colleague of Špirić's, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3043	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow delegates, distinguished guests. I didn't really think there'd be a need to call back, but since it's a serious problem, maybe it's a good thing we're just explaining things today. So again, I won't take the right to go into the need to deal with this problem at a time of great crisis, but this isn't the first time, I remember at a time of great flood there were strong demands for a differentiated rate, to change the rate, to go away everything, we won't get out of it, etc. and we stayed at a unique rate and prevented at that time, regardless of cataclysm, any possible abuse and decommissioning of the system. It is true when it is a difficult situation to think about how the problems of citizens must be solved, but if the situation is urgent, it does not mean that the urgent procedure in Parliament involves breaking the law by breaking other laws or violating the Constitution. That's all I want to do is refer apropo emergency procedures so we don't do anything that would produce much more consequences tomorrow than we think today. 16 But here we go in order, why today is not possible by emergency procedure, not because they don't want to delegates or there's someone who will and someone who won't, from... In 2005, there was already a request for a change in taxation policy, so in 2008. SDP and 2014 respectively. PDP and SDS, and I don't know which others for the differentiated rate, and they're all legitimate demands. Unfortunately, this year we have a war in Ukraine and it's a pre-election year and I'm not sure that we all want to pass a good law here to meet the citizens. Just passing this law and proposing an emergency procedure is illogical, as Article 17. The law on the indirect taxation system. I guess the promoter knew that he was breaking the law, and he could not do it, and the same proposal could have been forwarded to the indirect taxation administration, and I'm sure he'd get an answer in which he could avoid breaking the law. Today the adoption of such a proposal means that we have agreed to violate Article 14. The law on the system. This law, too, if adopted, could be destabilising, because only the entity budgets for fiscal stability and sustainability of the budget were adopted, that it was not a problem for the bill's proponent to enter, therefore, into the data of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and to see that by applying this law in a year would be reduced, reduced revenue from indirect taxes by 531 million, I am talking about the annual level. If this is added to the reduction of the tax base by indirect taxes, that's another 90 million, so somewhere around 630 million. If this law is armed for six months, then that's 320 million. It is logical that, as responsible state people, when we propose this, we ask the governments of the entity whether these revenues we want to use will, here, help citizens endanger the financial stability and sustainability of the budget, and development, social, consequential and any other policy on the budgets of entities, cantons, counties or municipalities. That's why I'm saying we have to have answers so we don't pass a law that won't help the citizens and make a stampede. Fourth and I don't know what other thing, why didn't the law here prescribe what to do with oil supplies and oil derivatives? People imported oil and oil derivatives and paid for the excise, would they be granted a refund? It cannot be a free interpretation of the administration, nor mine, nor yours, but it must be prescribed in the law that within that time, the funds they have paid will be returned to them. So, this law is not complete to be applied and to guess what we're aiming at now when we say the opposition, I don't doubt the intentions, I think they're good, but given what I'm talking about some speed, speed is not an ally of a good solution, smart solutions are not quick solutions, regardless of the crisis that is growing. I also know that Serbia has reduced excise duties by 20 fenings, and we know that Croatia has also armed it to three months. So why don't we ask the Administration, which is our Administration, so it's not a waste when we passed that law and it's not called the law on the system in which the representatives of the finance ministries are, so they say. It is not too late for this administration, these ministers, to come out in a few days and say what they can do to make it available and how. I have a conviction from people who do this job, that the funds will not reach the citizens, but the merchants will take the funds. I don't know if at all, when we want a law to solve a problem or to help, it must be studied from all sides, and it is unacceptable for me, ladies and gentlemen, that someone in the parliamentary procedure should refer the law to an emergency procedure which means violation of both the Constitution and the law. This law produces legal uncertainty, no House of Parliament can transfer its legislative activity to an executive body such as the Council of Ministers, there is no such thing in the world unless the opposition has reached a brilliant solution. It says here that after six months, the Council of Ministers will decide to extend it for another three months, let me know in which country it is possible, whether it produces legal instability. 17 Furthermore, the period of validity, we have three ways of adoption today or tomorrow, from the publication in the “Official Messenger” or from the actual entry into force, if we are told that this Law cannot be applied for at least two months in ideal conditions, which is why you justify that urgency, therefore, cannot be applied. What happens in... if we adopt this law, so it's valid, what is then applied, we can't apply it, if the old laws apply, is that regulated? It's not. We're making anarchy, if that's some goal in this crisis let's honor him, it's playing with people's feelings, but I am in favour of talking about this, of getting to a good legal solution, and therefore we're not going to support an emergency procedure, but we're going to give a chance to get to a law that doesn't break the constitution, or any other legal projects, give the chance to the Management Board of Urbava for indirect taxation, give the chance to the governments of the entities that need to worry about these challenges, and then we're going to do the right thing to prevent the application of this law from filling the pockets of traders. This crisis will produce different effects, psychological effects etc. Today anyone who reads says here's the price of gasoline below $100, but that can't make us feel at peace again if we don't think about it. Once again, therefore, we want to talk about this, we want the right solutions that will come to individuals, citizens on every inch of BiH, but we are not ready to be pushed into violation of the Constitution and the law. Worse than what is happening in the world is anarchy, laws that do not comply with the Constitution and that violate other laws are closer to anarchy than to help anyone and I ask you if there is already the mood of the opposition let us work together to come to a good solution. Don't chase, there's no need to chase, no one's afraid, the government has to carry a burden and a good condition and a crisis and it has to give an answer and it will answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3044	Thank you, fellow Špirić. I am more logged in ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, please, take it easy. Since there are no more reports for the hearing, we are concluding a debate on the procedure. Comrade Bećirović, you're a little bit, I'm sorry. Nothing personal, sir, nothing personal, you're welcome to our guest, you've come on your own, I respect it here. A short time ago, counterpart Bećirović said who proposed the law. I now have only one proposal, only one proposal, for one authorisation when the Board of Improperty is at stake, there is Mr. Sedin Mešinović on behalf of the Department of Taxes of the Administration and there is a Minister at the Council of Ministers' level, we do not have any other powers and please do not make a mistake in our business, and certainly we are only talking about the procedure still and on that side the promoter here, no one to be angry, it is not the SDP, it's the House of Representatives or someone who he has jurisdiction and we have stopped here about this. So, I'm closing the argument and no more reporting anyone. Thank you. 18 Please initiate the voting procedure in this regard, we vote, so on the procedure, therefore, on whether or not the draft law will be discussed by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14 - for 10, versus 4, abstentioned none. Federation of BiH – 9 for Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. We have a general, but we don't have an entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3046	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-16-0.u3047	We don't, we don't have, since we don't have colleagues Izetbegović, since he hasn't arrived yet, he said that by these times, since we don't have a college that can decide on this, we've now stayed in a position to agree this part. This has exhausted today's activity related to the agenda of this session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 3:45.
