ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3269	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 10th emergency session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] There are 14 envoys present, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serbian people. Mr. Bosić is not present at the session. For the 10th emergency session, I suggest the next Agenda 1. The adoption of a copy of the 9th Emergency Session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 2. Envoy's request from the Croatian People's Club at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Dragan Čović, Lidija Bradara, Marina Pendeš and Bariša Čolak to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, number 02-02-1-639/22 of 22.04.2022. Is anyone picking up? A colleague, Bećirović, joined. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3271	I welcome all present. Since an emergency session of the House of Peoples has been called today, I would like to propose the most urgent agenda points at this emergency session. I therefore propose, firstly, that as the first item of today's agenda, we include information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the consequences of the earthquakes that rocked BiH with concrete measures and proposals to help the endangered population. At this point, I think there is no more important topic for the Bošnjak, for the Srbin, for the Hrvat, for the ostali of the country than this issue. Secondly, I would like to remind you that at the last meeting of the House of Nations, I have proposed that concrete conclusions be made here to oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH to support the measures proposed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to support, i.e. the Council of Ministers 2 in favour of the European Union's foreign and security policy. As you know, it's been denied. After a session chairing the dom, Mr. Čović said the proposal makes no sense. But a few days after the Council of Ministers voted contrary to what the European Union's foreign and security policy is. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenković, directly called me and said the opposition had no right to dictate the pace of work, I guess, thinking here and the House of Peoples. Here I am now asking the following question, i.e. I am asking you both in the College and your chairman – did you prepare anything for this session at least two months after, and for more than two months after the beginning of the Russian aggression on Ukraine as the position of the highest legislative authority on the issue? If you have any suggestions, if you have at least one sentence on that subject, I'm not going to suggest anything. Have you prepared anything, I'm asking you publicly? Since there is no answer, we can conclude that nothing has been prepared and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, I propose that we include the agenda point within this session – a proposal for a declaration of condemnation of aggression on Ukraine. It's the text I delivered in the procedure on March 2nd of this year and I suggest, therefore, that we consider it today and adopt it. And the third proposal for today's emergency session, and it is indeed an urgent character, I propose that we put it on the agenda – to consider the information of the BiH Prosecutor's Office on the conduct of an investigation against persons who have launched anti-Dayton and anti-constitutional legal secession procedure bh. Republika Srpska's entity from an internationally recognised state, BiH. We here in BiH's highest legislative body must finally receive information from the BiH Prosecutor's Office. As these people deal with, is it possible to press charges against people who have defended the BiH capital without seeing that the collapse of the constitutional order is in one brutal way?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3272	Mr. Bećirović, just time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3273	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as well as in due course, I am delivering all these proposals in writing and I expect them to be accepted here in the House of Peoples today.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3274	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I warmly welcome all present. In order not to waste my time, my question concerns procedures, or respect for our Rules of Procedure. Given the fact that this is the first meeting of the People's House in this month, and that a member or article 155 of our Rules of Procedure does not differ or does not foresee when it comes to, is the possibility of us asking the delegation's questions the difference between emergency and regular sessions and considering that you did not foresee this possibility at this session, I am interested in what is the reason for this, given that I, before and before, here, two weeks or 14 days ago, have raised one question concerning the appointment of officials or diplomatic staff of the Russian Federation to the staff of non-grat in BiH. I ask you to answer this question precisely. 3 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3276	Thank you. As there are no questions today, they are not scheduled in the agenda precisely because of the urgency of this session that we scheduled yesterday, and we held today, the questions of the envoys will be at the next regular session that will be agreed today through the College of the House of Peoples. And as for the proposal to supplement the agenda according to the proposed agenda, since there are no more applications for the debate, I can only put proposals for adoption in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on proposals for the addition of the agenda by my colleague Bećirović. The first addition would be Proposal 1. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the consequences of the earthquakes that rocked BiH with a proposal for measures to help the endangered population. I'm reading directly how it's written here. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14 - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 4 against, no one abstention. Republika Srpska no one for, 4 against. There's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. Proposal 2. Proposal for a declaration of condemnation of aggression in Ukraine. Again, since this will be debated, because the item is placed on the agenda so that there will be a debate, it is very clear that our testimony will be this topic, at least as far as the Hrvat klub is concerned, because of the urgency of this session, we will not be taking these points of the agenda to a hasty session and that is our approach to the Croatian Club. Please initiate voting procedure. Attending 14 - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH 6 in, 4 against. Republika Srpska 4 against. So there's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. Proposal 3. Discussing the BiH Prosecutor's Office's information on conducting an investigation against persons who launched the anti-Dayton, anti-constitutional legal secession procedure of BiH, the one of Republika Srpska's internationally recognised state, BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3277	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3278	I read what I have in front of me. Only to repeat behind you again, so I read as it says here, just... it says. I hope you all understood what I read. Thank you very much. Run the voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14 - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 4 against, no one abstention. Republika Srpska 4 against. 4 There is no general majority, the proposal has not passed. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the agenda. First item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering your question? There are no reports, and I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the minutes of the 9th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14 - for 12, versus 2. abstentioned no one. Federation of BiH – for 8, against 2. Republika Srpska 4 for. The general majority exists, entity exists. I agree that the minutes of the 9th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Envoy's request from the Croatian People's Club at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Dragan Čović, Lidija Bradara, Marina Pendeš and Bariša Čolak to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, number 02-02-1-639/22 of 22.04.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3281	_________(?) Just a microphone, please. [[no microphone turned on]] ... as stated in our request, I will only look back briefly on why we have chosen to refer this request and why we have proposed amendments and additions to the Election Law, as you have all witnessed how the long-standing negotiations that were conducted around the Election Law have not yielded results, as it has given up unilaterally from the implementation of..., the implementation of the 5 Mostar Agreement, and taking into account that the BiH Constitutional Court has unconstitutional provisions of the BiH Election Law, the election of the envoys of the House of People of the Federation of BiH has been put outside the legal force and that all negotiations are not, and limited constitutional reform and amendments to the Election Law. These are all the procedures that we have conducted through various bodies, they have not produced any results, and given that the electoral implementation body independently announced the election announcement for May 4th, we felt it was very important to call for an emergency session to consider and adopt amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, and thus created assumptions that, in order to hold the elections, and for their implementation and implementation of the election results themselves, the details of the text of the law will be made by Čolak fellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3283	Thank you to my colleague Bradar. Comrade Čolak, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3284	Thank you, Mr. President. College members, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of BiH institutions and media representatives. I'll be brief in my opening statement because I suppose there will be questions, so I'll probably be forced to answer a little bit and beyond. The goal, therefore, of our proposal, is that a colleague has already said yes, but here, I will explain a little bit, is to create the necessary legal assumptions that elections could be called and implemented. The fact is that at this point, we do not have certain provisions of the Election Law, which are based on the House of Peoples of the Federation, and thus the State House of the Peoples of the Federation, and that is something that simply needs to be removed directly by the Electoral Law. Why? Because Article 20.16 (a) that the Constitutional Court previously declared unconstitutional, and subsequently put those provisions out of force, covers the precision, therefore, as precise as from which constituency, which canton, or which county, the envoys are coming to the House of the Federation and how much of the individual constituent people. So in this sense, there is no option but to amend the provisions of the Electoral Law. Why has haste procedure, and for the simple reason, it has already been said that we simply don't have time to wait any longer because an election call has been announced, of course. On the other hand, why can't we go to more comprehensive amendments to the Electoral Law, because we simply don't have time or space to change the BiH Constitution, you know that to change the BiH Constitution, besides requiring a two-thirds majority in the House of Representatives, there is also a need for a public debate to change the Constitution. This takes time, we simply do not have time, and unfortunately, we have not been able to include, therefore, our proposal, these amendments concerning the implementation of European judgments, i.e. the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci, but also other cases, do not mean that we are not determined to implement those decisions, or those judgments. In other words, we have also proposed such solutions that have been accepted by the Venice Commission on these negotiations. What is most important in this proposal is to achieve, therefore, the legitimate choice of envoys for the House of Peoples, and it is also possible to give room for the legitimate election of members of the BiH presidency. Our proposal, therefore, is based on constitutionality, we were unable to go beyond the Constitution of BiH, on legality, as well as on the non-minorisation of any constitutional people, which also includes individual rulings, namely the individual rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and I will firstly appeal here, not only the decision of the Constitutional Court in Ljubić 23/14/14, but also the one bearing the mark U3/17 and the decision on the constitutionality, i.e. the III partial decision of the BiH Constitutional Court 5/98. In that III partial decision, it was made very clear in the conclusion that this constitutional principle of collective equality of constitutional peoples prohibits any privilege for one or two constitutive peoples, prohibiting domination in the structures of government, which so far, unfortunately, you know that it has not been the case in practice. Practice has shown boredom on several occasions, and not only with members of the presidency, so, in the election three times, the domination of a more numerous people in the election of members of the presidency, but also in the establishment of executive authorities in the Federation of BiH at least twice, without legitimate representatives of the Croatian people. In addition, this, therefore, the Constitutional Court's decision speaks of the constitutional principle of the constitutional constitutionality of the people as to how the Constitution is overruled, and the Constitutional Court's decision 23/4, Ljubić's decision on the case speaks of the principle of constitutionality in which it is possible to implement the principle, therefore, only by legitimate political representation. And she says directly in her, in point 47, that decision, that the general principle of democracy is the right to democratically decide by a legitimate political representation that must be based on the democratic choice of those who represent and whose interests it represents. In that sense, therefore, there must be a link between those who represent and whose interests are represented at all administrative-political levels. So, only the legitimacy of the presentation, says the Constitutional Court, creates a basis for real participation in power and decision-making. With this proposal, we have fully resolved this issue, therefore, in the election of members of the Presidency, and in the election of members of the House of the Federal Parliament, by not jeopardising any of our provisions by any of these two constituent peoples. I think it's really high time for this issue to be resolved. I do not want to now, here, nor explain, the law is very short, you have seen how we members of the Presidency, so the proposal of this law is resolved, is not touched at all by the way members of the presidency of the other two peoples are elected, but we are opening the possibility of a legitimate election of the Croatian member of the Presidency in accordance with the existing Constitution. Likewise, in the election of envoys to the House of Peoples, we introduced that formula of 16+1, or a 5% threshold to have legitimate representation in the homes of the people, so that again, a majority of the people would not choose representatives to another people. That, I'll remind you, here, colleagues and colleagues, has been signed several times so far. Unfortunately, to this day it is not respected, and in '13. In Brussels, before international representatives of the International Community, the leaders of political parties signed it, signed it in 2015 in Mostar, it was signed between the presidents of the two political parties, so HDZ and the SDA, in '20. The year in Mostar, again in the presence of international representatives, and I really think it's high time to spend it. On the other hand, we, as very important in this Law, have resolved the issue and fills of Srbin in the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament, which has not been solved so far and has been a really big problem. An analogous solution in Republika Srpska, therefore, if, under the existing Electoral Law, the club of any people cannot be filled if fewer envoys were elected, and this happened regularly in the Serbian Club, then the council members from the city councils or municipal councils elected in the local elections are formed... the club and is chosen, therefore, to be filled fully with the Club of Serbs. In this way, we would really ensure that, if the elections were legitimate, the elections would be legal and we would solve a problem that was primarily the Federation's problem, but it is also the problem of the whole of BiH. This solution would, in my deep conviction, make one significant step towards candidate status in the European Union because this is one of the 14 key priorities in order to, here, get to candidate status as soon as possible. 7 All objections to the fact that this Law is discriminatory, that it does not solve all the issues, it does not really impose any discrimination, but solves discrimination that exists between the three constituent peoples, i.e. to resolve discrimination which, here, is directed towards one of the three constituent peoples all this time after Dayton BiH, and this issue, resolving the issues of ostali, or all those who do not declare that members of the constituent peoples, we must resolve as soon as possible, but the basis for this is the change of the Constitution and it would be good for all the political forces that operate in BiH, especially those who are participating in the legislative bodies, to make their contribution that and that question to be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3285	Thank you, colleague Čolak. We're opening a debate. A colleague, Bećirović, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3286	Just to clarify one detail, we're still discussing an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3287	The procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3288	Yeah, well, let's talk content then. Okay, I want to say a few sentences why I'm against emergency procedures. In fact, we in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, including the House of Peoples, must not compromise what is the Constitution of BiH through an emergency procedure. Therefore, emergency procedures do not mean that here and should come proposals that are anti-constitutional, and this HDZ proposal is anti-constitutional. This proposal is deeply against the content of the European Convention on Human Rights, against the contents of the Constitution of BiH and Annex I to the Constitution of BiH, and in particular the international pact on civil and political rights and members 25, and this should be made very clear and highlighted. The other thing that I am against the emergency procedure is that this is a proposal that is an anti-European proposal that has nothing to do with European standards and principles. This is a proposal to amend and supplement BiH's election law, and all people in this country are moving away from EU membership, and we need to know that. When you look at 14 of the European Commission's priorities in the Opinion on BiH, then it is clear that in this proposal, which is proposed by emergency procedure, none of this has been met. To conclude and not to abuse the debate, it's an emergency procedure, I don't think we should propose laws here that are, I repeat, anti-European and anti-constitutional. On the other hand, I do not understand why and for what reason high HDZ officials are opposed to amending the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3289	Thank you. You haven't caused the replicas yet. Comrade Jusufović, here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As for the procedure, I also believe there are no elements for an emergency debate for several reasons. This is a hypersensitive law, too long, it's been under discussion for years, so there are a number of issues that are too demanding to reach a final solution through this procedure. First of all, it's a violation of the Federation Constitution, I'm not going to speak specifically because there is, it's known what it's about, about the election of delegates, etc., so one law breaks down the Federation Constitution. Furthermore, we have a series of violations of the European Convention on Human Rights... However, there is one previous question for me that has not been resolved, and we have been about all of us in the debate on the Election Law, that is, at all the meetings, about the amendment of the Election Law, which is the opinion of the Venice Commission. We have all had the view that all issues regulated by the Election Law are in line with European standards. And every question that we had at those sessions, from Neum, etc., were present members of the Venice neighbourhood and they pleaded whether the question was defined in accordance with European standards or not. That, for a reason, I guess we're all committed to going to the European Union, to get involved in these standards as soon as possible. Today, with such proposals, we have absolutely no such opinion or even I can say, since I was present, that many questions absolutely differ from what the debate was held, and we also heard yesterday, the confirmation of this discussion, the statement of the American Embassy and the statement of the European mission, that there have been serious violations of European standards, etc. For these reasons, and I have said this before, I will say that without a statement and opinion of the Venice Commission, not a single question, and I do not think that it is possible to conduct a quality debate, a valid debate, and to draw valid conclusions. For these reasons, I will not continue to engage on any issues until we have previously received an opinion, I think we should ask the opinion of the European Commission, the Venice Commission, and then engage in a debate on this issue. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3291	Thank you. My kolega, Čolak, is correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3292	Thank you. Just for a moment, I will refer to what the gentleman said, first of all, Bećirović, and then Mr Jusufović. Namely, I think if it is said that the BiH Constitution is injured, then it is necessary to really state what the BiH Constitution is injured in. I responsibly argue that our proposal does not raise any questions about the BiH Constitution, and I would like to be asked what is injured. On the other hand, when it comes to the violation of the Federation Constitution, which was spoken of by a respected colleague, Jusufović, if the Constitution, if the Election Law is in full compliance with the BiH Constitution, then we can theoretically discuss how relations with the Federation Constitution are. However, on the hierarchy of legal acts, we should decide, I think, the judges of the Constitutional Court, not us here. So, I claim that this proposal, therefore, is not the opposite of the Constitution, first of all, BiH, and I repeat when it comes to the hierarchy of legal acts, the conformity of our electoral law with the Constitution of BiH cannot, in any way, be contrary to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, be the opposite. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3293	Thank you. A colleague named Pendeš applied for the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3294	I thank the president. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I have called to explain why an urgent vice is needed. This is a year of choice and we don't have much time to make changes to the law according to decisions, first of all, the Constitutional Court. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are not commented but implemented, and this House of Parliament or the House of Representatives, as well as the House of Peoples, is obliged to implement in this sense the HDZ Club, or the Hrvat klub, part without a gentleman, even Miletić, has proposed these amendments in order to democratisation. You are referring to the Charter of Human Rights of the European Union, and it is very well founded on human rights and the Charter of Human Rights, the European Charter of Human Rights, is founded by the Constitution in the attachment and Appendix 3 to the elections is said – to ensure the conditions need to be established by the authorities at the will of the people. It does not say on the will of political parties, but on the will of the people, and you are all aware of the fact that this will is primarily made by the Croatian people in several electoral processes. Secondly, you are calling after, he says, the opinion of the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission's opinion will be fully supported until Simona Granata has said that the proposal presented by the HDZ fully expresses or that it is not contrary to the Venice Commission's position. I guess human rights seem to be someone in this country that, by driving vital national interests, they take human rights to Hrvat, so... they are probably also supported in this way by Petrić, who took our human rights, Ešdaun, Incko, Barry's election rules. Is that an indicator of what democracy is in BiH? I call on all of you here, we are all elected by our representatives, we are all representatives of the people, and I think it is very important that you do not do to others what you do not want to do to you, and in this sense, I think it is very important that today, by haste procedure, we adopt this law in order to democratisation, in order to respect each other and the other, which many of you in the media, some of them say is irrelevant, because this is not in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, because even though some will justify that they cannot, next time, which is this year, be re-elected by another member of the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3295	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, counterpart Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3296	Čolak, among other things, asked – What part of the BiH Constitution was injured? Do I have two or three minutes to answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3297	10 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3298	Yeah, well, I'll be concise. So, when we look at the content of what you have delivered in the parliamentary procedure, it is completely white that this proposal is, and in particular some solutions contrary to Article 2. The BiH Constitution, especially with that provision on the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. In contrast, with aneks i to the Constitution of BiH, with the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, Article 25 makes it very clear that each citizen must have the right and the possibility to have, without any distinctions listed in Article 2 and without reasonable restrictions, the right to participate in public affairs, to be elected and elected in fair elections, to respect the principle of general equality. And when you look at what the content of this Law is, it is completely discriminatory not only to Bošnjak, Srbin and others, but also to Hrvat, especially Hrvat from Tuzla Canton, Sarajevo Canton and other parts of BiH. And in the end, you didn't answer one question, Čolak, and maybe this is an opportunity to answer. Why do you think the European Convention on Human Rights in BiH should not be respected? Here, that's a very specific question and I would like you to give me a concrete answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3299	Thank you. A colleague, Miletić, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3300	Thank you very much. As far as I can see, Mr. President, this is going back and forth again in the context of the content itself, so if we're going to discuss the content, if we're going to discuss both procedure and content, then let's talk about one and the other. I'm going to ask you to go back to the procedure itself, and I have a lot to say when it comes to the proposal for content of the law. What concerns me is one fact, and I have some of you here to deny, perhaps I am currently in the most diverse situation than all of you who are here as envoys and delegates to the House of Peoples, in particular with the aspect that I must defend the interests of the Croatian people and this issue must be resolved in BiH. However, I believe that in this situation that you have brought us into, especially here me personally, I think that it is very delicate and that it should not have taken seven days before the BiH elections to get us into this position and break this over our knees. So, I think, regardless of the time it would take us some, conditionally speaking, regular procedure, that this issue is very serious and not only from the aspect of the Croatian people, but also from the other two peoples in BiH. And having brought us into this situation is the most responsible of you two leaders, whether the peoples of both Bosniak and Croatian, and if you want all those who participated in these negotiations over the past year, that you were not simply able to agree on these issues. And they're just still eating the thing, why don't I agree with this way and that this issue is being resolved over the knee, I'm going to give you back one year when this famous interresor working group is formed. As I recall one of the changes that went to the House of Representatives by one delegate, you did not simply allow the matter to be discussed on the pretext that the interresor working group should resolve the issue. I only personally, say, suggested amending and supplementing the law in this context to impose obligations on all BiH citizens to vote and then you told us that you would not discuss this initiative, that the 11 discussions were an inter-resor working group and I in the finalisation of staying, under the supposed signs, in good relations I did not create a problem by hoping that this inter-resor group would actually do their part of the job. Unfortunately, that didn't happen for a variety of reasons, but I really do ask you, and I'm asking you, I think that in BiH we have enough time on every issue in BiH, if there's political will, I think we can agree and I think that if we lost maybe a month, two days, to solve this, and all the other issues that are related to the Electoral Law, of course, this is not the only thing, that we can be patient and it might be smarter to deal with this issue in a more thorough, perhaps slower way, but I think that will be much more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3301	I thank my colleague Miletić. The word was sought by the chairman, Dragan Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3302	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I thought that we would go a little faster around this part and that this would not take up that much time, but when we have already opened the debate in this way, then it certainly deserves to say a few words, because these speakers are mostly used for the needs of those who will later broadcast media and in some way run an election campaign, which has been going on here for the past year, and the elections have not yet been declared as such. We went with an urgent, or urgent procedure at the time when the Central Election Commission told us that it would make a decision at another session and declare the election process open as such, defining the day of the general elections. Of course, since we've absolutely and now think about it hundreds of times publicly, that there are no formal-legal preconditions that elections are being organised, then we've had to react in some way, and the only reaction can be an emergency procedure. If we had made the effort in the last two years, I think we have tired some of them in BiH, including those outside BiH who are skillfully or unskilled, or who are not able to change the election law, and they are often brought into an unfortunate situation, we would like to really resolve the issue of the legitimate choice of the Croatian people in BiH, and when the issue comes to the agenda, then you have the "but", then you have "but" etc. They're two years old. We'll be able to sign two agreements in Mostar two years ago. One concerned the City of Mostar, and another legitimate representation of the constituent peoples in BiH, it says in that agreement, and it is precisely defined what it implies, among other things, the implementation of all the judgments of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg and the Constitutional Court of BiH, including the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples in the BiH presidency and the homes of the people of the Federation of BiH, is part of the agreement that we signed in Mostar at the time. The Mostar Agreement or the one concerning the City of Mostar was realized that summer, and then we moved the elections by the Central Election Commission for Mostar about two months, so they were held mid-twelfth of the month two years ago. As we understand very clearly that one of the parties has done everything to play the signed agreement and it is no longer a secret, it is now public and speech, and through the negotiation process precisely with representatives of international institutions, who announced yesterday about the proposal that we have made, I think we have organised dozens of meetings of representatives of one, the other, third people, dominantly between Bošnjak and Hrvat, because 12 representatives of the Spanish people have even said agree within the Federation and we will follow your agreement that will be on the trail of the BiH Constitution. Each of our proposals, absolutely every one, and there were about ten of them, concerned a proposal that would ensure legitimate representation with the aim of carrying out all the judgments of the Constitutional Court, primarily the Constitutional Court of BiH, to be clear, but thus all the decisions of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. We tried to end up respecting all this that we are now hearing here through meetings in Sarajevo, Neum and where we organized them all with representatives of the international community, from different residences, in various compositions, with representatives of the various international protectors of human values, civil rights and freedoms, who were with us. Here we have listened to some of these performances, we are ready to accept everything the international representatives say, although you hear whatever the Venice Commission says we accept, etc. and then in these discussions, where one part of you would be present, which you are now here, we came to conclusions that were finally in line with these standards, and when it is confirmed that they have agreed and then changed this concept, it is no longer worth the bianko, then it is worth another concept, how to ensure again that one of klub Hrvat numerous people in the Federation chooses two members of the presidency, for the fourth time being, if in this success, I am sure that they will not, as well as this time, get the necessary majority in the House of Nations in order to solve the issue of the functioning of the Federation for all time. Of course, deeply underestimating relations in BiH, political opportunities, and therefore the shortened procedure is not the solution, which is why regular proceedings are not the solution. Have you seen that we also have an initiative in the House of Representatives, which goes according to a shortened procedure, in order to adjust, I will say, the technical repairs of the Election Law, and through the process of negotiations it was called the integrity of the electoral process, because at that time we had four elements that we had agreed with each other and made it very clear until all four agreed, precisely on the insistence of the Bošnjak, that we believe that none was agreed as such. We came very close several times, but as soon as we got close to one group leaving the session and there was no end of that proximity, so we were very close to one evening in Neum, so we were very much in Sarajevo one day, at the last talks, and therefore my gratitude to all those who helped us at the time, but the primary need for us to bring amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law through our parliamentary work so that the elections could be organised in the spirit of the BiH Constitution. The proposal we propose, whatever someone has said about him outside this hall, no matter how much BiH's friends, is in line with the BiH Constitution by the end. It is also when it comes to the presidency one of the ten proposals we had in the debate. We could have proposed two electoral units in the Federation for this emergency session, so we would probably disarm these international ones, because then it would have been a civil factual concept through two constituencies, but we accepted it exactly so that Bošnjak could mean something else, so at the start of the negotiations a year ago we said it wouldn't be a proposal on the table if we were looking for solutions. We could have put in some other solutions, which we've talked about for the last five, six months, as the type of this electronic vote and one of those concepts, etc. As far as the House of Nations is concerned, it is a very clear proposal that we have already discussed and very much negotiated when it comes to this negotiating process, I think, in Neum by model 16+1, that is the model we are proposing now to ensure that every nation chooses its representatives where that people exist. We also had without this urgent, urgent procedure the ability to protect the Hrvat in both Sarajevo and Tuzla, count how many you have protected within the cantonal structure of the government, within the city, municipal structures of the government in that area, so I will be oversatisfactory to the extent of the protection of the Croatian people in that space and every other space. As many swear on the issue of Sejdić, Finci and others, let us ask ourselves how many of these representatives of national minorities are present in the municipal, city, county and other parliaments, including this one here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is clear to me that this should only be served as a tool to keep 13 quo status, because nothing else is done, but for the last two years it wants to preserve the status quo, so that it will not... or have to justify that this time we will not be able to choose two members of the Federation of BiH, these are the words of politicians of the most numerous people when they explain those negotiations and that is why we needed an emergency procedure. I would be happy that we ended this in the seventh month last year, that was the plan, so in the tenth, so in the 12th, but here we came in the fourth month, probably next week, this, the Central Election Commission made a decision on elections and then it would be quite rational, reasonable today, to talk about this proposal that we made, which could look different, absolutely agree with it, we found the simplest form, as Čolak and colleague Bradara said, because it was an urgent procedure, so that they could ensure that the elections were conducted, that... political stability in BiH and messages to all those who follow what we are doing, who have only tried to look for the culprit of the last half of the year, so when they couldn't find it within the Serbian people, because they didn't participate in these negotiations, then they were asked between these two people, so when they couldn't do it with the Croatian people, which was the primary objectives, that they were to try to try the wrong in the wrong of this matter of their history, and to try to make them with the uns of the words. Here, therefore, an emergency session and therefore the need to discuss this today, because I am afraid for a few months that we will not then act in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the possibility of fixing something in electoral legislation, and then we will have a lot of political problems that we already have and we have lived them in this way for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3303	I thank my colleague, Čović. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3304	So, the replica, correcting the wrong quote in relation to what Mr. Čović and Mr. Miletić said. In Mostar, therefore, I have accepted that I will work on it and try to find a solution together with Mr Čović and friends from the international community regarding the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of BiH's rulings, legitimate representation is only one of the points mentioned along the way, and in relation to the legitimate representatives, Mr Čović and I have clearly different views on what a legitimate representative is. For me, Mr Komšić is a legitimate representative, so legitimately elected according to the Constitution and the law. Why didn't we solve it? Why didn't we get that circle square to solve it? I, therefore, agreed to try and solve it, did not take the obligation to solve it, the political, political square of the circle, so because HDZ proposed such things, as the entire public in BiH today sees. So, could I have agreed to this sort of thing? Mr. Miletić, I don't represent Bošnjak, I represent the SDA, which has the eighth hand in the House of Representatives and three in this, it's free people, I won't tell them what to do and it certainly won't accept some retrograde, uh, solutions. So, I'm one of the party presidents. And it's not my fault, Mr. Čović, that we have this problem that the HDZ call the Komšić situation, so it wasn't the SDA running for Mr. Komišić three times, but it was your SDP side, then the DF, I won't say that you didn't have to do it at all, but you did it, and then you had a reaction to half-blocks, in blocks, in one of the more difficult things in BiH. What does the U.S.A. have to do with this? Why are you calling me on this? I'm not saying you were wrong to run for Mr. Komšić, but you did it and you got the reaction you got, so between you, that's why you're dragging me into it. So, 14 of me there has to do with how much I have to do with Finland joining NATO, so you're following some logic we heard yesterday, you know, NATO, Finland, the SDA and the Komšić case and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3305	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, counterpart Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3306	Dear colleagues and colleagues here is the main problem that in solving all these issues is a completely wrong approach and I think it would be good to start by finding strength and talking about essential issues and fundamental problems. When I say this, I am going back to that section, the key issue that all depends on, and this is not the implementation of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, according to the Constitution, it must be directly applied in BiH and it and its protocols and the European Convention has priority over every other law, it is not, therefore, my words, it stands in the Constitution very clearly and very precisely and it is a key problem now in BiH, I would say perhaps from Dejton to today, it is not the implementation of the BiH Constitution and this provision that speaks of the European Convention on Human Rights. A Article 2. The BiH Constitution, item 2, is a map of how all of us in this country can reach a stable, secure and European state, with European standards and principles. This Article 2. The Constitution of BiH, the European Convention on Human Rights, is the core of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is the core of the Constitution, that is, when implemented and that this should not be carried out in the way that Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, or any judgments that followed. I say responsibly, although this may be a bit of a heretic interpretation, we all speak ill of the Constitution, of a bad agreement, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3307	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3308	is inadequate in many things, especially today's BiH, but this constitution needs to be implemented, and in this Constitution BiH has a map of how to create a state of equal human rights for every man in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3309	Correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3310	Now, first of all, I didn't think I'd answer, not to take too much of your time, but I have to really take it from the point of view, because in the media it's going through like that, and you, Mr. President, are back in a certain way very skillful way, who's to say that there's someone else's urgency in the Hrvat People's Club, I'm saying when it comes to or when it comes to the Federation, that someone wants to kidnap those six so that they can control something, you, unfortunately, have that opinion and now. And what I really have to ask you, you have to understand that you are not my representative first of all, means many people, I speak about a part of the Federation, and many Hrvat feel the same way, I'm going to set an example, so we have Hrvat who have their political entities like Božo Skopljaković who claims the same thing. We have a woman who, in the last nineties, was here in Parliament, Mrs. 15, Dijana Zelenik, who claims the same thing. So you have to understand that people who have been chosen from those four cantons, which you don't know for what reasons you don't admit, they have the right to choose Hrvat in the Federation when it comes to the Club of Nations and they have the same importance as any other who has been chosen from another part of the territory. And Mr. Izetbegović, I'm sorry that you misunderstood me, I was talking about general responsibility, that too much time has passed, so that this issue was raised at the beginning of our term, I'm convinced 100% to resolve it, I've talked about it. But I think, here I am, Mr Komšić, although he is being respected, a man has been elected under the electoral law, a constitution that is valid, every Hrvat in this country, without a Christmas from which part comes, I speak in the context of the current situation in BiH, has the right to run and be elected, and that is the essence and it should be the essence not only for the Croatian people, but for every people in BiH, so if you want for others, that is, all BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3311	A kolega, Čolak, a correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3312	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short, Mr Bećirović when he spoke about why we are against the European Convention. Where did that come from, Mr Bećirović, that we are against the European Convention? So we have proposed such solutions in this negotiating process that have satisfied the European Convention, but it is worth changing the Constitution of BiH and you can't You Electoral Law that you are now proposing to be contrary to the Constitution, I think it should be clear to you and to all of us here. Secondly, when it comes to the Constitution and quoting certain provisions, I would also like you to say what the Constitution said at the beginning of Article 1.2. The BiH Constitution, which makes it very clear that BiH is a democratic state operating in accordance with the law and free democratic elections, and our founder has marked the peoples, the constituent peoples of Hrvat, the Bošnjak and Srbin as constituent peoples, recognised them as special collectiveities and gave them equal rights through constitutionality. You should just understand that me and you, I understand and I hope that the great majority understand that. Secondly, I would very briefly like to refer to what Mr. Izetbegović said when he said that Mr. Komšić was legitimately elected. So I don't think it really fits the truth, Mr. Izetbegović, because the civil principle is worth one vote in civil homes, and that's okay, from municipal councils, through cantonal, county, I don't know, entity, to state and no one is disputed, so somewhere around four thousand people are chosen by that principle in this country, somewhere almost, over 97%, only 2.8% of people are elected by this other principle. You can't go to institutions where there's vital interest, which is homes of the people and the Presidency, by the same principle of choice, simply that, it doesn't work, it's just that these institutions are extra if we choose by the same principle. So, who first started to know, but who later was a contractor, we know the same thing. So we all know everything here, but we'd finally have to focus on solving these problems, keeping them behind us, and making our future better. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3313	Thank you. A kolegica of Bradar, a correction to the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3314	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would only ask Mr. Izetbegović – did you lose the Mostar Agreement and do you even remember what you signed? Since you just said you didn't sign it, and since it's short, I can read it, and I can tell you, here, to your colleagues that they're sending it to you, because I'm sure you have it on you and it's not correct to say that you didn't sign it when you did, and above all, you're going to say that among other things... it will approach the implementation of point 1 of this Agreement, starting with the making of amendments and addition of the Election Law in order to ensure the legitimate and legitimate political representation of the constituent peoples and citizens in all administrative... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, of course, so here's the one I hope you do... I see that you know it by heart, have here and witnesses to that agreement. And I also want to say, I don't see why you feel hurt with our proposal of election law because the House of Peoples of the Federation is very interesting, interestingly functioning in this way and I don't mind that the Croatian people if they are able in the Podrin County or the Bosnian-Porin County select the representatives of the Croatian people, five of them, if they are 23 Hrvat can choose ahead of the representatives it's okay for me, and we are about all clear about what has been going on in BiH over the past years and what is going on in these elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3316	Thank you. Kola Bećirović, correction of the wrong allegations, i.e. the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3317	Mr. Čolak, you know very well that I never say anything by heart, and all I'm saying is always taken by arguments. Now that you've asked me why I'm saying that you're in favour of not applying the European Convention on Human Rights, I didn't even say that. That this is so here is the Labour Assembly, as everyone in the House of Peoples can see, a solution to Croatian issues for European BiH, an organisational committee headed by academician Dragan Čović, etc. And in that collection are texts, among other things, signed by both you and Mrs. Borjana Krišto. The conclusion of your text is this, the conclusion – a suspension of the Convention and the Protocol is proposed with the convention for a certain period of time. This, therefore, is what you have announced, this is this Chamber of Works, and I have not invented anything, therefore. It's just a matter of facts. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3318	Thank you. My kolegica Majkić, application for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3319	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm thinking, we could have this scheduled session yesterday, which was supposed to start yesterday as planned, and today we'd be sitting in this band, discussing the same things, and we wouldn't have moved one inch closer to the deal, there's no deal. And this is a reasonable attempt by those who feel threatened and those who are more equal than others so as not to give what they acquired in the meantime and have no intention of returning it. That's true, all the truth is in it. Talking here about everything that's been said is talking just to talk, but not to make a deal, and obviously you can see who cares and doesn't care. The Serbian side has shown maximum democracy by saying – you have the biggest problem here with you and solve it, and we will be correct so we will not oppose it, everything you agree on will be sacred to us and we will accept it and we expected it. Then as a highlight, I saw this text published that the SDA cited the reasons why the HDZ proposal was not acceptable to the SDA. Now, that made me more horrified than all the stories I've been talking about, where I was a witness. He says SDA – The proposal of the Croatian People's Club ignores the fact that, despite long-term agreements between domestic and foreign actors, no political agreement has been reached. What? Who's to blame? What did both sides do, we know, to come to an agreement? How many proposals have been offered, and how many have not been accepted? It was agreed because it was known that some people knew there would be no agreement because they preferred the existing solution in which the existing law allowed two members of the Bosniak people and one of the Serb Hrvat to be re-elected in the same way. That's what we don't want to happen to us, we'll never support it happening to others. And the highlight of that, he says, would create a false picture that one of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted amendments to the Electoral Law. Imagine what was adopted by the House of People that it was the creation of a false painting. Think about the attitude towards the House of Peoples, is that Mr. Izetbegovic's attitude towards the House of Peoples? I know of your intention to make this House only a home that will protect vital national interests, and you also know that the other two peoples think that such a thing will never happen. So for me, this is an amazing statement, creating a picture of how one of the homes brought it and that could be the solution. So if nothing could be arranged by now, maybe today will happen. Maybe something will happen today so the law will be passed, there's no long solution. All the other talks, the negotiations, the interresor groups, the likes of the working groups, that's funny and lax. When you don't want to solve something, then you form a commission, that's how the Electoral Law was, and everybody knew, we're gonna put some people sitting there doing things, mostly on a different level with strangers, and in the end there's not gonna be anything, it's gonna be all the same. Next, next, and ow, I mean this who wrote you a genius is, really, I mean, under quotes. Imagine this – the proposal ignores the established practice that should be respected, it is an important law, and so, first it should be considered at the House of Representatives, then the House of Peoples, because they were elected directly. There is a procedure regulated to go mostly to the House of Representatives first, but does not mean never to the House of Peoples. So no one forbids and the Rules of Procedure forbids the House of Nations to discuss something first. If you're thinking of humiliating the House of the People in that way, well we won't let you do it, I'm limited by 18 of those attitudes. Imagine that, because they're directly elected there, and that's what I need them to do, so when this law is passed there, then we're going to let ourselves go, and that's why all of this was made so that you wouldn't be able to pass that law so that we could put ourselves back in a position to... what to do, to make it more difficult for the circumstances that we're in. Why shouldn't there be an emergency procedure? Because the sea of amendments, we saw it, and there in the House of Representatives, unthinked intent, devised the coming of a solution. We saw these even yesterday, here, surprised me by the SBB, which also didn't come yesterday, even though the press didn't mention it anywhere, they just mentioned three SDA delegates. Jabba was trying to show that he was on that side, but no one noticed you weren't there, no one mentioned you. You've tried so hard for nothing. So, what I'm trying to say is one more lie you made, and the truth is about the CEC election in 2005, someone here said in 2001, that since 2001 it's only been elected by the House of Representatives, it's not true. In 2005, an amendment was made that only the CEC was elected in the House of Representatives, so there is no, and that is not true and it is completely wrong. Then it was still thought that what's been going on lately, that there's going to be a kidnapping, chaos, that everyone will draw on the Constitution as well as they can. So, in short, there's no reason for this not to be an emergency procedure, there's no reason why this bill doesn't go through and it's the basis for holding elections under the new Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3320	Thank you, colleague Majkić. A colleague, Jusufović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3321	Thank you for giving me the space to say something, I thank you very much, especially because I respect you as a valuable representative, delegate, etc. Does it even matter if he gave up some space or not? I have my own position, a lot of parliamentary experience, and I don't care what you think of me and what the SDA thinks or anyone else, and whether anyone noticed us or didn't. The SDA is the strongest Bosniak party, it had business rights both without me and with me. But to be clear, I made it clear yesterday, otherwise I don't exactly make statements for many reasons, not that I have nothing to say or I don't know what to say, but just no, I've made enough statements, I don't agree with the method, today I agree, yesterday I didn't agree with the method, but the business SDA had very clear reasons for the MP to do it. The same thing was done, it wasn't done alone by the SDA, everyone almost changed at one time in some practice one or this form of this. For today, I agree, and whether it's turned out now, I should have been running to the media, eh, and the SBB, uh, to please Mrs Dušanka Majkić. I don't have to. I'm even suggesting today that they don't mention me anywhere, but I have my own attitude. Here, that's about the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3322	I think he's understood. Col. Miletić, correction of the wrong quote. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3323	It's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to return the discussion in a way that we can discuss emergency procedures. So, now time is not meant to discuss SDA statements because if we do, I have some other statements that have gone public, which I don't like. That's the first thing, the second thing. I would really like to ask my colleague, Majkić, this is the second time and she is not the only one, there is no need to insult other people, Mr Komšić is not a Bosniak member of the presidency. I beg you, then, the man is a Hrvat. It may be problematic how he was elected, so you said we have two Bosniak members of the presidency. Well, it's not like that. So you guys, what you're doing, don't make me use a suitable expression of what you're saying and you're not the first one, but you have to accept an institution that's got 225,000 votes, whatever you think of it, and man is it by nationality. That you think it's wrong how he's chosen, that's another problem. And the third thing, when it comes to Republika Srpska, I understand that you are experiencing this lightly, when it comes to the Croatian people who live in Republika Srpska, which I will when I report on the content, it is reduced to a statistical error, and I will explain to you how and how.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3324	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3325	Thank you. Let's just say you didn't answer your word, we could already vote on an emergency procedure because there's no more corrections to wrong allegations, no more debates. Here, we conclude, if you agree to discuss the procedure. So it's a closed procedure debate. We are voting, therefore, on the procedure of whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3326	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3327	At the request of fellow Bećirović, please cancel. Run a new voting procedure. Thank you. Present 14 – for 8, versus 5, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I konstatirati it has passed the proposal to consider the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law, the Election Law, by emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Now we're opening a debate on the bill. A colleague, Sarajlić, applied for the debate. Here's a colleague of Sarajlić. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we have come to the debate on the Law itself, and we have already made a lot of reference to this House, that is, as chairman of the House, the same act in which we, not the SDA, but the Bosniak Club unanimously declares this Amendments and Amendments Act proposal with an urgent procedure at its 27.04th session, harmful to the vital national interest of the Bosniak people. We heard the arguments at the beginning, but what's the basis, they're the members of 97 and 98. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the four delegates of Croatia in the House of Peoples in 22.04.2022 referred to the discussion and adoption of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH, and on the basis of Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples have requested that this proposal be considered by an urgent legislative procedure. The proposed law on amendments and additions to the electoral law proposed by the four delegates of the Croatian people in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is unacceptable for us for the following reasons. This proposal ignores the fact that despite the long-standing and comprehensive efforts of domestic and foreign actors, no political agreement has been reached on amendments to the electoral legislation and the BiH Constitution. It is a unilateral and anti-constitutional proposal. The proposal ignores the established practice of Dušanka, the distinguished Mrs Dušanka Majkić, on the functioning of two homes, the Representative and the House of Peoples. The proposal should have been submitted to the Interresor Working Group for amending the electoral Munib before Jusufović it to the procedure. Its review of the urgent procedure prevents the submission of amendments that could potentially affect the correction of discriminatory solutions. The draft law does not fulfil BiH's obligations under the European Commission's 4F's key priorities -- ensuring equality and non-discrimination of citizens with special treatment under the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Sejdic-Finci case. No member of this case shall ensure the elimination of existing discrimination. The bill provides for the implementation of OSCE and ODIHR recommendations as contained in the key priority 1 of the European Commission, I quote - ensuring that the elections are conducted in accordance with European standards by implementing relevant OSCE and ODIHR recommendations and the Venice Commission relating to the integrity of the electoral process. In addition to these general remarks on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, and in the context of harmfulness in the vital interest of the Bosniak people, we point out - Article 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Election Act in Chapter 8. The Presidency, and Article 8.1, is changing and becoming even more discriminatory than the currently applicable solution which, according to the European Court of Human Rights' decisions, is discriminatory and must be changed. The amendment is scheduled for the election of members of the Federation presidency, so one Bošnjak, one Hrvat is chosen, but the election of the Croatian presidency members is conditioned with majority support in five cantons, Hercegovic-Neretva, Central-Bosnian, Western-Herzegovina, Canton 10 and Posava Canton. With this solution, candidates for the BiH presidency are placed in a more unfavourable position, and the equality of the Bošnjak people with other peoples, in this case Croatian, is certainly a question of vital national interest. According to the proposal, a candidate for the BiH presidency must win the largest number of votes among Bosniak candidates in the entire Federation of BiH, unlike candidates for a member of the Croatian people's presidency who, in the most extreme case, Article 8.1 point (c) of the proposal should win the majority in 21 of the five cantons that will be enough for him to be elected. This provision of the proposal is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people and because of the fact that it retained the provision to elect a Srbin for a member of the BiH presidency from Republika Srpska. So, despite the clear views of the European Court of Human Rights, I will remind Pilav v BiH that it is a discriminatory provision that needs to be amended, the proposings kept it. The possibility of Bošnjak running for BiH presidency members from Republika Srpska is certainly a question that we consider vital to return and survival in those areas, and thus one of the mechanisms for eliminating the consequences of the terrible crimes, including genocide that has been committed against our people in that space, which makes such a proposal harmful to our vital national interest. Article 6 The draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law in chapter 9 relating to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Article 9.12 is amended so that every political party or MP in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska has the right to propose a list for the selection of Serb delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The example that in terms of harmfulness in the vital national interest of the Bosniak people is the same as in the election of a member of the BiH presidency from the Republika Srpska entity. The fact is that Bosniak MPs, who must be at least four according to the Republika Srpska Constitution in the Republika Srpska National Assembly, must propose and elect Serb delegates. In addition to being discriminatory for the Bosniak people in the entity Republika Srpska is harmful to our vital interests in this entity. Such an approach eliminates the possibility of running and elected delegate in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on behalf of the Bosniak people from the entity Republika Srpska and representing the interests of the Bosniak people living in this entity. The restrictions on running for elections based on ethnicity and residence, according to the European Court of Human Rights discriminatoryly and OHDIR in its 2010, 2014 and 2018 reports, requested that these discrimination be abolished. The proposal in Articles 9 and 10 contains provisions on the selection of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Federation against the provisions of the Constitution of the Federation of BiH according to which, I quote, there will be at least one Bošnjak, one Hrvat and one Srbin from each canton that has at least one such MP in their legislative body, near the quote. The proposal damages the interests of the Bosniak people as a whole, especially in cantons where their number is below 5% of the total number of Bošnjak in the Federation of BiH according to the results of the latest census. Thus, it is determined that Posavsky, West-Herzegovic and Canton 10 will elect one delegate to the House of Peoples to place Bosniaks in these cantons in an unequal position. For us, it is a problem and the schedule of delegates to the other two peoples in the Federation of BiH. Such a proposal deepens divisions in our society, discrimination is being made between Bošnjak in areas below 5%, and it is unacceptable for us. The reconstruction of a multiethnic society throughout BiH is certainly our vital national interest. This is, therefore, the position of all five delegates from the Bosniak people. The Honorable Chairman, I will deliver it to you now. This is our position, and we hereby declare this bill which has already been adopted by an emergency procedure and are discussing its scale harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. I hope you will proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3329	Thank you. 22 In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we did not discuss the measure of the Law, we only discussed the procedure. Whoever abused the procedure and discussed it is something else. And, of course, the debate is under way. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Bradar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3330	So I'm using this opportunity to remind us of my colleagues from this House, as well as the general Bosnian Cheg public that this is today the 14th request to protect the vital national interest of the Bosniak people in the House of Peoples and so much about it, and it is the 16th in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. So for the 14th time, Bošnjak have raised vital national interest in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and have always been accused of misusing this instrument. I know very well about the procedure for protecting vital national interest because I spent most of my career in the homes of the people and I think it's perfectly legitimate and fine. I just wanted to point out, too, that this is the third, the last three requirements for the protection of vital national interest launched in this House are precisely the amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. One was 2013, the second in 2017, and again, we are witnessing an instrument in which in the main Bosniak People's Club, it uses the protection of vital national interest on issues concerning the other two constituent peoples in BiH or the functioning of BiH itself. Looking at all these issues, it was the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Conflict of Interest, which is very interesting on which topics are mainly referred to by the Bosniak Club for Vital National Interest. I will not dispute your right to use this instrument, but I would just like to point out that, since it was the subject of the dispute, that it was a question that was constantly insinuated in public and, behold, I now just want the public to know that for the third time in a row, three last requests for protection of the vital national interest of the Bosniak Club are preventing the adoption of an electoral law that will ensure legitimate representation and, behold, all that I should not see, could be entered which hurts the vital national interest of the Bosniak people, but I will not use this time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3331	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3332	Thank you. I will only look back at this incorrect finding that the reconstruction of a multiethnic society in BiH is our vital national interest. It is not true, that it is not exactly what your activities confirm, among other things, that one is about declaring national interest where one of the conclusions adopted in the House of Representatives, which concerning the Croatian channel in the change of the Law on the Public TV system, means in this way you prevented it, which is one of the basic human rights, so I do not understand how Mr. Denis Bećirović can accept it in such a way as to call for respect of the Constitution, it calls for the Convention on Human Rights. So, his right is probably compromised in a way, because he is not a multiethnic society unless Fejzić Edin from Gorazd is at the Croatian House of the Federation or Šahinović Anel of the Great Cladude. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3333	Thank you. Also, since we have a motion to initiate a procedure of vital interest we will interrupt the debate, but, here, we will exhaust all applications for corrections of the wrong allegations and violations of the Rules of Procedure. kolega Izetbegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3334	Well, that's exactly what I was gonna say. So Article 177, 178. The Rules of Procedure do not allow any further discussion, you have allowed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3335	No arguments, these are the corrections of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3336	Okay. Then we'll go after Article 177, 178.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3337	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, counterpart Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3338	Very short. So I stand by my words, my views, and what others deliver and say are my views, that's their problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3339	Thank you. Now we've exhausted all the corrections of the wrong allegations, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and we've interrupted the debate. So the debate isn't a lead, at the request of the club president, we stopped. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, you have made clear who supports your proposal. I will now ask you, given that we will plead by clubs, to use the hand-declaration method, and I will call first representatives of the Bošnjak klub once again – Bosniak... declares that the decision declared harmful to the Bosniak people's vital interest. We invite you to come forward about it. 5 - 5 for you. Thank you very much. I call on the Serbian People's Representatives' Club to declare whether the proposal for an amendment law and amendments to the BiH Election Law are in accordance with the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House damages the vital national interest of the Bosniak people. 4 - 4 against. It's not. 24 I call on the Croatian People's Envoys' Club to declare whether the proposal for an amendment and supplementation of the BiH Election Law is in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House damages the vital national interest of the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3340	Four against, one for. [[no microphone turned on]] So it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3341	So it's not. So we have two clubs, Serbian and Croatian, which have declared that this is not harmful in the interest of the Bosniak people and the Bosniak Club that declared it. I would now again, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, ask the presidents, or the club heads, to appoint one representative on behalf of three clubs to join. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Comrade Sarajlić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3343	In the name of the Bosniak Club, I propose Mr Izetbegović, a member of the College. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3344	Thank you. A representative of the Serbian people? _________(?) Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Club, Sredoje Nović. [[no microphone turned on]] Sredoje's Nović, thank you. My kolegica, Bradar.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3346	On behalf of the Croatian People's Club, Bariša Čolak. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3347	Thank you. 25 So we created an ambience so that we could call a session...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3348	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3349	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3350	Put it to a vote. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-0.u3351	Yeah. Yeah. Here is the repair, so we will do this manually after all we have done manually to adopt together the proposal of this Committee, three representatives, means colleague Izetbegović, colleague Sredoje Nović and colleague Čolak. We are 14 - 14 all in favor. Thank you very much. This is what formally ended the session, i.e. we broke up at this stage, the metric debate, as we would say, the proposed, proposed amendments and additions to the Law, and I suggest that we immediately after this call for a session of our committee to agree on a way of working, because we, as far as business as possible, have to make a decision and agree on this. Thank you very much. You will be informed of the next session in due time. Session interrupted at 11:43 p.m.
