ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3048	Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you and the opening of the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests, representatives of the House of Representatives, the chairman and ministers of the BiH Council of Ministers, RTV BiH, the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, the BiH Appeals Office and the BiH Export Credit Agency were invited to attend the meeting. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The session is attended by 15 envoys – 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. As indicated in the call for a session in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 21st session of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Dušanka Majkić, co-chairman of the Council of Ministers and representative of Lidijo Bradar for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, submitted an announcement to ask for parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure, these announcements were submitted to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers on matters. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to the Public TV service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, and in accordance with Article 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to my colleague, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3049	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The BiH state and BiH state authorities have opted for full BiH membership in the NATO alliance, both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, until the competent state authorities make a different decision that is the official commitment of the BiH state, as it is written in decisions and in BiH strategies, is ultimately the legal obligation of all elected BiH officials. 2 My question has been addressed, in this regard, by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija – što is the Council of Ministers of BiH and he himself, what have they done in the current term of office to speed up and dynamic BiH's path to full NATO membership? Obligations under the Reform Programme and under the Defence Act should therefore be met by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency, as well as by all defence entities within their legal powers and competences. When it comes to BiH's full membership in NATO, the BiH Defence Act 84 specifically states that it is the obligation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to implement, I stress the word to implement all activities for BiH's NATO membership. With that in mind, here I am asking the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, noting that there really is no more important task in BiH for all citizens and peoples of BiH than the quick entry of BiH into the NATO Pact, because the alternative to BiH's entry into full NATO membership is the Ukrainianisation of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3050	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. Before the session, we received information, informing that a colleague of the Council of Ministers, a colleague of Tegelti, will not be able to attend this session due to previous commitments. Thank you very much. So, since we don't have the chairman of the Council of Ministers here, I'm going to ask you to answer this question the chairman delivers in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3051	Comment... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3052	Of course, you'll get a chance like anyone else to comment. A fellow colleague, Dušanka Majkić, applied for the next word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3053	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3054	Comrade Bećirović, you haven't received a word at all, so if you insist on getting the word, you will get the word, and... will get up and run the session, you can't run it. I will ask you to just in accordance with the Rules of Procedure we seek to respect each other, so we will also solve all the questions that will probably be asked through the agenda. Since you have no colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers present here, let's hear your comment. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3055	Mr. Chairman, you have to admit one thing, I have exactly by the Rules of Procedure in a very polite way asked, explained the question, that there is no Chairman tegeltija is not a question for me, but a question for the College, it was neither in the past nor in the previous session, so it is not coming. Whether he ignores you in the College or the entire House or simply a man does not respect his obligations, we should also get an answer to that question, I believe we agree on that, because this is an unusual practice, from personal experience, I chaired one of the homes in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we never convened meetings without all ministers and chairing there. There's a completely reverse situation here, people gather in some villages, and I don't know where, NGOs, they're not in state bodies. So, let me cut it short.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3056	Your time has already expired for your comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3057	It's two minutes out.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3058	Your time has run out of business, just say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3059	So, I expected Mr. Tegeltija to answer verbally as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, not responding orally, and not answering in writing, so I remain to, behold, and invite you to urinate, because yet he must understand that
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3060	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3061	Parliament above the Council of Ministers and that this is the control body of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3062	We'll order the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come to the next session anyway. Thank you. A fellow official, Dušanka Majkić, joined in to ask the envoy's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3063	Thank you very much. No matter what my question was delegated to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I am aware that it exists, there was no possibility that he would appear at the session today, please answer my question orally. 4 So my question is about the problem many citizens suffer from, and this, it is about issuing passports, ID cards and traffic tickets. So there's something out there that's not public and many citizens are starting to fear what's going to happen. So my question is – will the citizens of BiH be left without being able to take out or replace passports, that is, from July, so in four months 2022 to take out or replace ID cards and driver's license? We ask that, in response to the asked question, be included – Is there a valid contract for the making of passports, when it is signed and until when it is valid, when the contract for the making of ID cards stands out, and when will the same contract be called and whether BiH is threatening again the shortages of these documents as we have already seen? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3064	Thank you, colleague. As we have said since there is no Council of Ministers chairman here, if any of the ministers need to answer this question. Go ahead, Minister Gudeljević.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3065	Honored chairman, members of the College, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the envoys. The Agency for Identification Documents, Recording and Data Exchange of BiH, which we know under the abbreviations IDDEEA, is an administrative organisation within the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs responsible for the field of identification documents, storage, personalisation and transport of documents, and the central keeping of records and exchange of data between BiH authorities. The procurement and distribution of all non-personalised forms, BiH travel documents, shall be carried out by the IDDEEA in accordance with Article 8. The Law on the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH. The ministry of civil affairs has regularly asked the Agency for information on this issue, stressing the importance of taking the necessary activities to ensure that citizens of BiH continue to enjoy the right to personal documents. As regards purchases, the procurement of travel documents forms IDDEEA informed the Ministry of Civil Affairs that a framework agreement on the purchase of travel documents between the IDDEEA and Milbauer d.o.o. was signed in Banja Luka on 22.03.2022. with a period of validity until March 2026, and that the signing of this Agreement provides travel documents for BiH citizens for the next four years. At the request of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, IDDEEA provided information that the concluded contract on the delivery and establishment of a system for the personalisation of electronic identity cards and maintenance of the system for a period of ten years between Milbauer and IDDEEA expires at the end of 2022, and that the IDDEEA will temporarily undertake all activities related to the purchase of ID card forms and driving licences.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3066	Thank you, Minister. kolegica Majkić, do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3067	I'm happy. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3068	Thank you very much. And the third envoy's question is a colleague of Lidija Bradara's, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3069	Thank you. Dear President, members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers here present and important guests, colleagues and fellow envoys. My question concerns and is set up by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who, as we know, is not present, refers to the global fiscal framework. Namely, the Law on the Fisklan Council of BiH's basic tasks, coordination, the Fiscal Council is the harmonisation of fiscal policy in BiH with the aim of ensuring the macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability of BiH, the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko District. As far as I know for the first time in history since there is a Fiscal Council, the global framework for not being adopted within the foreseen legal period and we do not have a global fiscal framework for the period 2022 – 2024, which should represent assumptions for budget planning for 2020 at all levels of government, and, as we know, according to the law, it is passed by the Fiscal Council. At the moment we are faced, and we can expect additional, more significant reduction of financial capacity at all levels of government in BiH, it is my question – When can we expect the adoption of a global fiscal framework for the period 2022 – 2024? I also warn that according to the Law, Articles 6 and 13 of the BiH budget could not have been adopted without a previously signed agreement on a global fiscal framework. This is my question, and I expect, if the Minister of Finance is unable to answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3070	Thank you. Since we don't have a president, does one of the ministers in charge need to answer this question? Thank you very much, you will receive the answer in writing. Do you have any comments, colleague? No, thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the emissary oral questions. For the 21st session, we propose the next amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Conclusion of the Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-16,3/22 of 9. 3. 2022; 6 3. Notice from the 16th session of the Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-16,5/22 of 9. 3. 2022; 4. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider draft law amending the Law on Salary and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, issue 02-02-1-371/22 of 11. 3. 2022; 5. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider draft law on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, issue 02-02-1-393/22 of 11. 3. 2022; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-1-2100/21 of 29. 12. 2021, shortened procedure (first reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act (first reading), Proposer: House of Representatives, issue: 02-02-1-378/22 of 11. 3. 2022; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers Act (first reading), Proposer: House of Representatives, issue: 02-02-1-862/21 of 18. Six. 2021; 9. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the House of Representatives for the examination of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excise Taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, number: 02-50-6-528-9/22; 10. Report by the College of Colleges on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01,02-02-1-1223/21 of 16. Six. 2021; 11. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), issue: 01,02-02-1-764/21 of 30. 4. 2021; 12. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work and business of BHRT for 2020 and the programme and financial plan for 2021, issue: 01,02-50-18-977/21 of 6. 5. 2021; 13. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion number 1 proposed by the representatives of the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, which reads: "The reason for the failure of the PSBiH House is the lawless decision of High Representative Valentin Inzk, who tried to impose changes and additions to the BiH Penal Code, which he had no right to do. The power to impose laws by the High Representative, as an unselected stranger, does not exist in the Dayton Agreement and Annex 10, the only annex which clearly determines the tasks of the High Representative.", number: 02-50-6-528-8/21 of 29. 11. 2021, of 15. 12. 2021; 14. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion number 2 proposed by representatives from the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, which reads: "It is necessary that those who created the last decision of Valentin Inzk cancel it. The BiH Council of Ministers should propose as soon as possible how to determine and demonstrate relations with war crimes committed and their public treatment, given that civil war or ‘traditional conflict in the region’ was waged in BiH, as defined in the Dayton Agreement.", issue: 02-50-6-528-8/21 of 29. 11. 2021, of 15. 12. In 2021; in the United States, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion number 4 proposed by the representatives of the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, which reads: "The home of the people of PSBiH finds that 7 The Constitutional Court of BiH, out of its jurisdiction and against the constitutional provision that ‘BiH continues its legal existence according to international law as a state, but with the internal system amended as provided for in this Constitution, makes decisions contrary to the Constitution of BiH when it comes to state property. The BiH Constitution in Article III.3.a) stipulates that ‘all government functions and powers, which are not explicitly assigned under this Constitution to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, belong to entities’, number: 02-50-6-528-8/21 of 29. 11. 2021, of 15. 12. 2021; 16. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion number 5 proposed by the representatives of the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, which reads: "The people's House finds that the BiH Constitution has not explicitly given the right to property or jurisdiction to regulate ownership of state property, so it is necessary to resolve the issue by agreement between the two entities, the canton in the Federation of BiH, as well as the Brcko District of BiH, which is jointly owned (condominium) by the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH.", issue: 02-50-6-528-8/21 of 29. 11. 2021, of 15. 12. 2021; 17. Consolidated annual report on the financial management and control system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-11103/21 of 28. 5. 2021; 18. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-11104/21 of 28. 5. 2021; 19. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2020, applicant: BiH Appeal Office, issue: 01,02-50-18-1149/21 of 4. Six. 2021; 20. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2019, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-2070/21 of 15. 11. 2021; 21. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020, applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-2175/21 of 13. 12. 2021; 22. Information on the allocation and use of funds of current reserves allocated for the recovery of economic damages for period I. - XII. 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1219/21 of 15. Six. 2021; 23. Information on the allocation and use of funds of current reserves for period I. - XII. 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1220/21 of 15. Six. 2021; 24. Information on the current state of play at the BiH Export Credit Agency (IGA) caused by the blockade of the main transaction account, number: 01,02 -50-18-1232/21 of 17. Six. 2021; 25. Parliamentary initiative Zlatko Miletić, number: 02-50-6-1698/21 of 6. Nine. 2021; 26. Ambassador's initiative Zlatko Miletić, number: 02-50-6-2219/21 of 22. 12. 2021; This is the harmonized agenda of the College of the House of Peoples which you have received. Is anyone picking up? Comrade Bećirović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3071	Today, on 24 March 2022, almost a month since the beginning of the Russian Federation's aggression on Ukraine, as you know, I was in parliamentary procedure on 2 March delivered the proposal for a declaration of condemnation of aggression to Ukraine. Apparently, many in the structures of the government thought that it was possible to ignore it and that it was possible to play some kind of neutrality. But I guess it's clear to everyone now that it was a wrong assessment, if it wasn't clear to some when I delivered this text on March 8, I hope today on March 24th they don't have dilemmas. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very serious situation, eight EU ambassadors led by Satler have sent a demarch to the BiH Council of Ministers for the vote on the resolutions of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The EBRD resolutions say that the EBRD will not carry out new operations, loans, or technical assistance to the Russian Federation and Belarus, and will preferably suspend and/or cancel the payment of the tranche in the already existing operations for these countries. That's exactly why I want to draw attention to this extremely serious question. Gentlemen, the EBRD is of paramount importance to BiH, it is a creditor financing millions of projects in BiH. The Council of Ministers, unfortunately, postponed the vote again a few days ago. Our governor at the EBRD is Mr. Bevanda, Minister of Finance, and our deadline expires in a few days. I'm just wondering if those who decide are aware of what kind of trouble BiH and all the people in this country can get into. That is exactly why I believe that we here in the BiH state parliament have both the obligation and the responsibility to try to stop one of these, I would say, irresponsible behavior. Today, at this session of the House of Peoples, we need to make a split for both domestic and international public, to definitely see who is for the European Union, for the United States and the free world, and who is seeking candidate status with Putin's Russia and Lukashenko Belarus, there is no third choice. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I propose that we add today's session to the next item of the agenda – the adoption of the conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which requires the Council of Ministers to fully coordinate policies, measures and views with the official positions of the European Union. I deliver it in writing, if this is adopted as a part of the agenda, I have prepared the conclusions that I will also deliver to the delegates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3072	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. Deliver it in writing. Since there are no other proposals on changing the agenda, I am concluding a debate on the agenda. I will ask you once again to read the proposal to supplement the agenda of my colleague Bećirović – the adoption of the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which requires the Council of Ministers to fully coordinate policies, measures and attitudes with the official views of the European Union on the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Please initiate the plea procedure under this proposal. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 – for 6, versus 7, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 2, v, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 against. There's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the agenda. 9 Point one agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up the word on the first wheel? There are no reports. We're closing the debate. Please initiate voting procedure related to the 20th session of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. Attending 15 — For 15. Federation of BiH – 10 for Republika Srpska – 5 for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the two agendas today, Ad. 2. Conclusion of the Joint College of both homes of the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH No: 01,02-50-12-18-16,3/22 of 09.03.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3075	The word has the chairman, Mr Dragan Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3076	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We have just reached two conclusions at the last session of the Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which we have last informed you. The first refers precisely to our European path, and it is our assessment that it would be good for us to make an adequate decision on the House of Peoples today. Similarly, the same conclusion should be done by the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament, and on the basis of all of our discussions and determinations that we want to become part of the European integration process and ultimately part of the European family. I think that over the last ten years we have repeatedly pointed out that we belong in the European family, and we see because of the many circumstances at global level that we have today, how much it hurts us not to be part of this integration process. So I think it is important to once again mention all that we have done in the past since the time of February, i.e. 15.02.2016, when we... for membership. Also, on 01.06.2016, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement came into force between the European Union and BiH. All that 10 we have done in order to be able to submit candidate status when it comes to the Mechanism of Coordination of All Institutions within BiH in order to open their European path and their European perspectives and everything that binds us and the last 14 conditions that have been set for us to take another step when it comes to the European Union, its opinion and possibly our candidate status and finally opening up to the procedure of our approach to the process. It seems to me that today may be one of the most important issues right here, that we have one position, a common position to send a very clear message to the representatives of the European Union, so that BiH can get one of its seats in the European family, the place that belongs to us. I am deeply convinced that we have missed more chances so far within us, but also through the institutions of the European Union and members of the European Union that have often put us aside. In the past ten years, we have repeatedly changed the approaches, that is, the conditions for our accession, and today we have several points in this House that are set out as a condition for candidate status. There was a wish a month ago when it began to talk about the atmosphere we have in our environment, and especially because of the war in Ukraine for some accelerated procedures in the EU, however we were clearly made aware of the key people of the European Union that we must meet all the conditions for this status to be obtained and that these procedures could be opened. So I will ask all of us to try, and I have personally told the representatives of the European Union with whom I have spoken, where I have verbally asked that we try to speed up this path, not individually, but through some party or not knowing what kind of approaches we can have to these institutions to send through the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a strong decision, or a strong position here with our House today. I deeply believe that this is the way to make ourselves serious and then put ourselves into our own priorities without any incentive from anyone outside all that we need to master European standards and to open this integration process to BiH. So at the end of this short address, I will say that I think that today we should adopt a common document and through this we are reading our consensus on the European pathway to BiH. I'll read it to you now, of course, and it'll be shared if we make a statement about it. Taking into account all the progress I have said and the theme of the Joint College's conclusion of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is to decide on a request for candidate status under the accelerated procedure of BiH in this respect – we are in charge of the House Speakers to direct the initiative on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH based here on the shown, this commitment to the reaffirming of the European path of BiH in the form of an appropriate written request to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission and the Council of the European Union. For now, the decision would be about the House of Peoples, and if adopted in the same form or form as the House of Representatives, then it would be the decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Please make this decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3077	I thank the chairman, Mr. Čović. Mr. Denis Bećirović spoke for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3078	I would first like to point out that I do not opt for proposals based on who the promoter is, but solely on what the content of the proposal is. And in the sense that there will be no dilemma, any step forward towards dynamicising BiH's path towards full membership and NATO and 11 EU membership, no matter how formal they may be, but I repeat, and the slightest step should be supported. However, I fear that in particular over the last month we have shown here in the House of Peoples that it is not the European Union's genuine interest in some political options. And it's done in a rather specific way. At the moment when the entire free, democratic world, the entire European Union is making views on the condemnation of aggression, this House of Nations did not find it appropriate to adopt any conclusion that would side with the European Union and the free world. And, here, today, at the beginning of the session, we had the opportunity to correct this mistake and adopt the conclusions that are important for BiH, but which would also show our solidarity with the EU. And what happened, the vote was so today in the House of Peoples that we did not side with the EU, and I believe that Putin in Moscow and Lukašenko in Minsk can be satisfied with the vote today in the House of Peoples. And don't think that what happens in the highest legislative body of the BiH state, that people don't see this very well in Brussels, both in Washington and other countries. It's a big, big mistake for anyone who thinks that in a conflict between the free and democratic world and eastern autocracy can be neutral. That mistake could cost all the people in this country. So today we have had the opportunity to show concretely that we are on the side of the EU and the free world, and not to be among those, in the societies of North Korea, Eritrea, Belarus, Syria and Putin. My opinion is that it is not a good message, but I repeat again, even if every verbal step it is, even if it is some verbal message that we want to speed up status and speed up movement towards the European Union, I will support it, although I think this is just a political fog, because on specific issues when to join European standards, European foreign policy, European principles, these principles of voting here are always, as a rule, let down.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3079	Thank you. The next one for discussion came from a colleague, Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3080	Thank you, Chairman. So I can't help but notice that there is no certain hypocrisy behind this proposal, that at a time when nothing works in BiH, when these homes, or Parliament, can't make any significant role and decision for the citizens of the state it represents, we refer the EU to a requirement to accept us into candidate status. Well, I guess it is clear to all of us that this request for the EU does not represent anything, especially when you have explained that you have received information from them that there will be no candidate status until the conditions that this authority and this Parliament have been continuously fulfilling for years and blocked. And now the question is what's the point of this, these agenda points, if it doesn't change anything in real life or change the European Commission's view of this issue. And then I remember a discussion from the last emergency session of Mrs Dušanka Majkić's delegate, who said the opposition's proposal on the Act of Accises and the Law on VAT reduction is a pure pulsism that the opposition wants to get some political points ahead of the General Elections. And it seems to me that this from the plane is clear to everyone that it is purely populist and distracting attention from the inability of any political initiative and progress, above all, by the authorities and by the parties that make up this power. And as Mr Bećirović said, I will support this for formal reasons, and it seems to me that there will be at least five more, a walk of points that have the same intention and the same purpose as the purpose and these points. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3081	Thank you, fellow Bosić. My colleague, I'm sorry, I'm a colleague of Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3082	I can be a colleague in terms of gender equality, and I don't have any problem with that. I warmly welcome you all, especially colleagues from the House of Peoples, and, of course, our colleagues from the House of Representatives, representatives of the Council of Ministers and officials who are in the O.R. today. I must say, with both discussions, especially with Mr. Bosić's discussion, I agree in that sense that maybe this is all a little hypocritical. I'm not telling you the president in a personal sense, and indeed, here you are and in this way you may be making an additional effort, but I would like to draw your attention to a few facts that are very important at this point, at least for me. First thing, I'll agree with Mr. Bosić's findings that we're acting very hypocritically. We have a series of public policy holders in BiH in the last 10, 15 days, it would be degutant to mention their names, because people aren't there, who are more and more often talking than we should, as we should, give up on that trip to join the European Union, which is very indicative to me, especially from the security aspect, and I'm going to say something about it in the end. I cannot understand the hypocrisy of the EU, and how hypocritical the speeches and the current aggression of the Russian Federation on Ukraine and on the misery and misery that is currently happening in this war conflict when you look at millions of people moving from their country and who is now the EU offering them their military, humanitarian and I don't know what kind of help and, unlike them, we didn't even have a chance in 1992 to experience how much more hypocritical they were to us. Given the fact that some countries and from Southeast Europe have already accepted their family status in relation to the situation and what has been happening in BiH, I think that it has been hypocritical and that perhaps some other approach and in some other way BiH should have long ago been with some other people, whether or not they are carriers presently and in all 25 years of public and political functions in BiH did not really deserve it, but they have had the opportunity to maybe with some other, new young people who are not burdened with nationalism, war and this various nonsense that we are dealing with, they may have been able to do other conditions and to enter the family of European countries sooner. Why am I saying that? BiH citizens should neither be the goal nor the future of being Serbian, rich or Russian, nor the Turkish world. Europe brings us democratic standards and procedures, and ultimately we do not need the EU for formal reasons, we simply need them to adopt procedures or principles and democratic principles to make the citizens of this country live better. I want this opportunity to draw your attention to a fact that is very important, and in this sense, as Mr. Bosić says, and I will add, not only formally, but really, I will support this goal of yours, namely this document and I believe that everyone who is normal in BiH should think this way, primarily because of the security aspect. I'll have you back in '14. The year when it comes to Ukraine. It wasn't because of Russian intervention when it came to Crimea, it was because Ukraine wanted to join NATO, but because it wanted to join the EU, and then the problems with Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea, and these other parts, and basically, here it is, as you can see, lasts eight years and ended in an unfortunate way as it ended. I personally believe that each of us, everyone in that position he is acting, should show that this is the only right path and goal by respecting these facts spoken by Mr Bećirović. 13 And I ask you one more thing to remind you, I thank the President for having already said it, and I apologize to you for repeating it, today you have the opportunity to prove how much you care about this European path, by adopting these laws that are on the agenda, because it is a shame that in three years, I am talking about this composition, that we were unable to pass those three laws, and that there who singers are going to these meetings, we are asking that people accept us by force, and we are not able to pass one of these three laws that were actually a condition of these 14 priorities that BiH actually needs to meet. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3083	Thank you. Since there are no more reports to be discussed, I'm closing the debate. The motion decision I think you've all got on your desks. I will once again read the decision that would be directed to the House of Peoples to the House of Representatives to adopt it in the same form. The decision on a request for candidate status under the accelerated procedure of BiH, in this respect we task the home speaker to instruct the initiative on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on the basis of the commitment shown here to reconfirm BiH's European path in the form of an appropriate written request to the European Parliament, the European Council, the European Commission and the Council of the European Union. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 — for 13. Federation of BiH – 10 for Republika Srpska – 3 for. There's a general and entity majority. I realize this is a decision we adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the point of today's three agenda, Ad. 3. Notice from the 16th session of the Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-16,5/22 of 09.03.2022. I remind you that the Joint College of both homes at the 16th session held on 9.3.2022 asked the BiH Council of Ministers to launch the adoption procedure for key fiscal and budgetary documents in BiH as soon as possible. I would ask the BiH Minister of Finance and Treasury to give us a brief summary of this document.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3085	Thank you, President. Greetings to all present. I'll be brief, we've received this notice as the Ministry of Finance and we've done the information we've sent to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers adopted it, all of it happened within a very short period of time, and I will briefly taxfully list what is being asked of us. So, all key budget documents start with the provisions of the Fiscal Council Act, he defines the procedure as it comes to the budget. So on the 29th of July. '21. The finance ministry and 14 vaults delivered to the members of the Fiscal Council of BiH the document to the Global Fiscal Balance and Policy Framework for the period '22-'24. A year. On 10.12., the chairman of the Fiscal Council, Mr. Tegeltija, scheduled a session of the Fiscal Council, we had a quorum, and here it was concluded to postpone the statement on the document The Global Framework in order to hold further consultations. On the 11th session of the Fiscal Council was held on 17.12., the session was not satisfied with the quorum for work and decision-making and we were unable to work and make decisions. The 12th session scheduled for 28th of last year was also cancelled due to the inability of certain members of the Fiscal Council to attend. 12th session scheduled 26.1. of this year, it cancelled due to the inability to attend a number of members. On 22.02.'22. held a session, on the same Global fiscal balance sheet framework not supported. The adoption of the Global fiscal balance sheet and BiH policy framework for the period '22-'24. is the first and at this point a key step towards continuing the process of drawing up budgetary documents, and drawing up a document of the indicative budget for the period '22-'24. the year and draft bill on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for '22. A year. After the adoption of the Global Framework adopted, I repeat, the Fiscal Council, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is preparing a document of the framework budget for the period '22-'24. which is actually a preliminary draft budget of the upper limit and everything else. The Ministry of Finance and Treasury is 1.2.'22. The year referred to the proposal for a decision on the level of the basic salary account, which is also the legal obligation of employees in BiH institutions for the '22s. The year, which determines the base of 535.50 marks, means the return of that base which is '12. to the second time reduced. According to the Council of Ministers for adoption, it is necessary to adopt it before drawing up drafts for the draft budget documents. The document of the indicative budget shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers and adopted by the Council of Ministers. After the adoption of the document, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury shall prepare a draft bill on the budget of the institutions for '22. and delivers it to the Council of Ministers for adoption. The Council of Ministers adopts a draft bill on budget and international commitments, the law on the budget of institutions and international obligations and the Council of Ministers delivers the adopted draft bill on the budget of the institutions and the BiH Presidency. And the BiH presidency is the only authorised, mandated draftr of the budget that points to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. The BiH presidency, an official proposing, is delivering the draft law for '22. A year. The Parliamentary Assembly is considering the draft law on the budget of institutions and international commitments and is having a discussion on the budget. The Parliamentary Assembly adopts the law on the budget of institutions and international commitments for '22. A year. In addition to this information, we gave the global fiscal balance sheet framework for the period '22-'24. And as I said, since it was a rush after your memo and I'm glad that I can introduce you and the public to steps that are technical and lead to the adoption of the budget and I hope that we will finally have it. I repeat and warn of the provisions of the Fiscal Council Act which has strictly laid down the procedures for the adoption of the Budget Law and for the level of BiH institutions and all other levels of government. So, in my opinion, we currently have that the provisions of this Law have been broken on many occasions and at various levels, but I don't care that much, how much I care about getting this budget law as soon as possible. The Ministry of Finance and I will personally do everything possible to get there as soon as possible. We have a fiscal council today along with the IMF Mission and I asked for this item to be included in the agenda. And just this conclusion to read – the Council of Ministers took note of the information and tasked the General Secretariat to forward it to the Parliamentary Assembly and it was done. Thank you for your cooperation with the Secretary General. If there are any questions, I'm here.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3086	Thank you very much. We're opening a debate on this agenda point. Bećirović was the first to apply. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3087	I've listened very carefully to the Minister of Finance's statement, Mr. Bevade. Mr. Bevanda is certainly one of the most experienced state ministers and I believe that it was not entirely pleasant for a man to have to give such an explanation. I don't even know what we'd be discussing after this opening argument. The man here has now said that the people of the Council of Ministers and others have either not been to the sessions or have not come, or have not shown up, or have not suggested anything. For the first time since Dayton, we haven't adopted a budget in 2021. The finance minister will admit that, too, it also has economic damage. The adopted budget on time and the unaccepted budget, however, are two completely different things. We're going into 2022, and there's no budget in sight for this year. There are no other laws necessary, no measures by the Council of Ministers. Now I ask the question – who is responsible for it? The majority in the House of People may not agree with what I am about to say, but this is no longer the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers, this is the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly now. Why? Some say that Parliament plays a legislative role, of course it also plays a constitutional role, but they forget that the role of Parliament and that it also plays a control role with the Council of Ministers in the description of its competences. Parliament has mechanisms to seriousise this Council of Ministers of BiH, but it is obvious that those who obstruct it in the Council of Ministers are doing so fully coordinated with people and in the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and we have such an epilogue, and it is a complete zero in all segments, and I have no intention of putting on a sign of inequality, i.e. a sign of equality between all. It's true and precise, by law, by any act that's been in favour, who's against.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3088	I thank my colleague Bećirović. The speaker, Mr Dragan Čović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3089	Thank you very much. Here, we heard what the Minister of Finance and Treasury told us in the Council of Ministers when it comes to one part of the conclusion relating to the conclusion of the Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The conclusion was to resolve the issue through this debate at both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of key fiscal and budgetary documents. We have heard about the budget documents the main part of it, from the Global fiscal balance framework, which has already been written as such. What we need is the fiscal framework '22-'24. We simply need the indicative budget as well as the budget for this year and, of course, the law on the implementation of the budget that followed it. We're still on, we're on, we're in, or we're going to enter another quarter next week which we're also going to follow by the Interim Finance Decision, we understand what that means and what links are to the time obligations. In fact, we're tying it to the '20s budget. That's the age of it. And of course there will be a lot of problems for the whole economic, social and political situation, and not only in BiH, but also in the environment. What I wanted to add is why I came out here today because we are going to discuss different fiscal documents concerning BiH, which I have said several times for the last time, without wanting to reduce the population or the emphasis on the population that we have been exposed to lately, regardless of whether this part of the legal changes and additions that we have on the agenda today or on dozens of other laws that we should adapt. The key is that we must not fall into a much more serious problem, the problem of economic, legal anarchy within the BiH framework. I'm afraid we don't all see it the same way, and that's why, as I just came out to propose that decision all together to adopt it, so I'm glad that it adopted us 13 who were here at that time, because that decision is not just a question that we're going to tell someone something, but a decision to commit ourselves to doing all the obligations towards the European path to obtain candidate status. Similarly here, we have an exceptional connection with the financial institutions of the whole world because that is how we have positioned ourselves for the last twenty years when it comes to our economic, monetary and fiscal relations. We do not have any right to seek our step towards the European Union, we commit ourselves to making a decision at both homes, as far as I see it will be unanimous, and at the same time harshly to violate the obligations we have immediately within the financial part, the economic part, within the institutions of the European Union towards BiH. In the answers we received from the Conclusions that we submitted, we received answers from the Ministry of Finance institution, meaning the Council of Ministers, entity ministries and the Board of Irregular Taxation. And here we have representatives of these institutions who are very clearly warning us that we are breaking all the laws if we go into the adoption of certain amendments and the addition of laws that we believe will make life easier for our BiH residents. It's one thing to believe, it's one thing to have a good desire to really do it, and the other to actually realize it. That is why it was necessary for us to discuss these points before all other points, to point out, not to make it much harder and worse for our all BiH residents than we have today because of the escalation or what will be passed on to us from this recession environment that is clearly coming to us as a stampede in BiH. My request to all promoters, when it comes to proposing something, which concerns economic and fiscal space and key fiscal documents, that, above all, we consult those who are experts, who can follow it from the aspect of the profession, the law that we have committed ourselves to and committed to the institution, which we are asking for help for budgets in BiH, and not just for the budget, for everything we need in BiH. Whether it is the EBRD, the European Investment Bank, the IMF, the World Bank, and not to list all those with whom we are already very much connected and to whom we have the responsibility that exactly our fiscal legislation has placed on such frameworks to protect both their money and their investment towards BiH as such. Now, we can't take a step, we want to join the EU, and then we'll just have these key laws that we have defined ourselves according to the standards of these institutions harshly violate and change. For all that we propose, there must be one order, first of all within BiH's legislation. So I'm going to ask you all to read thoroughly and what's written by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Office for indirect taxation, to see what we're skipping or rudely violating from our legislation when we're giving incentives for certain changes within the fiscal system, within BiH, whether it's excise duty, whether it's VAT, any other space where we're going to make procedures within the entire BiH financial system. I'm afraid if we continue to court our voting body this way because the campaign has already begun, it's very much started in the entire BiH area, plus not to reduce the value of feeling the good part of you that we really care about our residents, just don't want to do them any good, make it much worse than we have today. Here, that's one wish, if we have already sent through the Joint College one such initiative, to ask or ask for some seriousness with these few words when it comes to amending any law concerning the economic framework, the budgetary framework and the fiscal framework in the BIH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3090	I thank Mr. Čović, the chairman of the House of Peoples. A colleague called Mladen Bosić, please. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3091	Thank you. Well, I just said that this request to the European Union is hypocritical on its basis, and for this I don't know what I'd like to say, for this point that I would find a word of what I think about this. So, to the colleges of two homes, the leadership of Parliament completely asks the Council of Ministers, which Parliament has chosen, to do something their job was when they were put in place to do. Now the question is one of you – does this document and such a letter mean that you have blocked these processes so far, because you are also the heads of parties and superiors to these people you have appointed in the Council of Ministers or is it the fruit of unhappiness and ignorance or anything in the Council of Ministers? It seems to me that this letter alluds to the fact that so far you've blocked that work, and now you tell the Council of Ministers to take it now and do so. I can't be surprised that you came to this conclusion to send a letter like this with such content to the Council of Ministers. In fact, the question here is who is responsible for this catastrophic situation in which BiH is located, it is here to transfer responsibility from one to another for this condition and wash hands from a situation that everyone is already aware that has led to, not a stalemate, but that it has led to a mud that we cannot get out of.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3092	Thank you very much. kolegica Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3093	Dear Chairman, I wanted to ask you a question, since it's something you've just spoken of from the pay phone. So, please explain to me, given the laws that are on the agenda today, you mentioned the explicit position of the indirect taxation administration, which apparently said what it thinks about the laws that we are discussing today. I wanted to ask you – Why didn't we get that attitude, is that attitude just for the College or would it make sense that we, that all delegates in the House of Peoples have it? So this is the thing that we miss, and many of the decisions that we should make today are extremely important for this, especially as it comes to the greater struggle of laws proposed by MPs from the House of Representatives, therefore, which are not based on some analysis that is the result of this knowledge, so it came about. I ask you that if there is any possibility that you will provide us with the position of the Board of Direct Taxation in all these matters of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3094	Thank you, colleague Majkić. So, the idea of BiH on this agenda point to be informed, to get information from the Ministry of Finance, and according to the current points of the agenda where we will be very specific about the legal changes, you will also have an opinion, among other things, and we have a representative of the Administration here right now to answer all the questions that we need as such. As there are no more applications for the debate under this agenda, I thank you and I will conclude that today we have met the College, or the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with the conclusions of the 16th session of the Joint College of both the homes of the Parliamentary 18th Assembly of BiH, as I have already read when we opened this item of the agenda. Thank you very much. We're moving on to item four of today's agenda, Ad. 4. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider draft law amending the Law on Salary and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, issue 02-02-1-371/22 of 11. 3. 2022. You have received a request from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the 27th session, held on 09.03., adopted the draft law and submitted to the House the text of the Proposal for a Law with a request for an urgent procedure pursuant to Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. I'm giving my word to the billman if he has one. Thank you, there isn't. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3097	First, I can't believe, there's a whole group of MPs sitting here from the House of Representatives, and as far as I know, I can see the House of Representatives is a proposal to the House of Peoples and no one calls to explain the Law, I can't figure it out. Because in fact, we lost one good rule that it was once an obligation for those who are headed outside the House of Representatives to have the necessary authority. Today from the House of Representatives, anyone can come and explain. There is no defined path, or a forgotten path that once was and who was given the authority to, to talk about what law here. So we should establish that first. The second thing, when the election year comes up with laws amending the Law of Payments, regardless of all the complexity of the situation we are in, it's hard to defend an emergency procedure, but just 19 times before the elections we have the Law of Salaries and then, as they write now, a bunch of emails that are coming, they say you've already changed one institution once, and now you're going to change it again, and some have failed to come to order in any way. No Niko argues that there are people in these institutions who have very small salaries that we should have done a long time ago, but after what the finance minister has just said, it's already been adopted, as I understand, that a base for calculating the salary will be returned. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It won't be? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3100	Thank you, colleague. So we're discussing procedure. As for the representatives of the proposings who are authorised today, there is no presence here, according to our Rules of Procedure, so. The next one applied for a hearing with counterpart Miletić. So, on the procedures of fellow Miletić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3101	I'm really going to try not to get out of this agenda point, so we're talking about the urgency of whether or not we should discuss it. Regardless of the facts cited by Mrs. Majkić, I have the opposite opinion of hers. In view of the fact that our civil servants and deputies have been waiting for more than ten years to solve this problem and that still officials with the lowest or lowest level of expertise have a salary of 460 marks, which is ten times smaller than ours, so it's embarrassing that, here's Mrs. Majkić's words, which we're dealing with now, so because you didn't want to deal with a year ago, two, three, whenever we ask this question to solve the issue of the existence of our people who are employed in this building, you make a problem. I'm not saying that what you're saying isn't an objective circumstance, but Bog has many subjective things. Finally, and to adopt the urgent procedure of this bill, with a 20-story question, what Mr. Bevanda said is quite correct, let the gentlemen figure it out, and we'll add that amount of money to the officers and the tenants that we need, and we'll round it up. So, when you can waste these citizens' money and have monthly opportunities, and are you able to spend eight thousand a month on yourself, so that you're not ashamed to have people working for 400 marks. So there's a reason for urgency, and you go ahead and vote whatever you want, but it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing that people are being paid in this way, and you've seen from this proposal a group of MPs, they've given you people in the tables what it looks like, and you're not going to do it again. Here, not now Zlatko Miletić has proposed, a group of HDZ MPs has proposed. I have no complex of this kind, anything that will improve the status of our employees here, I stand behind this proposal and I don't think this question really needs to be delayed anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3102	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3103	What you're saying, I don't know what I'd call it, the gentlest word I could use is inconclusive. Because you haze the eyes of those who expect this money, because you can vote today, but they won't get that increase. You didn't understand anything Mr. Bevanda said, so there's no budget, there's no fiscal framework, we don't know what circle we're moving in, in which gap, as you think you're voting, that law cannot be realized. Don't give people hope false, but you have to do it, you need to see what can be done so they can actually get it. They don't have anything from your speech. Besides, whose name are you speaking for? Who is behind you, then do you speak such great words?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3104	You're not ashamed of yourself. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3105	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3106	I'll just Zamolić... a colleague to finish, you've answered the word after.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3107	So your criticisms must have a rational background, they never have it, because you always lack the crumb of knowledge that would allow you to more carefully analyze and understand. I'm asking you to look at the good stuff before you comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3108	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, counterpart Miletić. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3109	... Mr. President, so you missed it last time, the lady very often abuses the meetings of the House of Peoples and leads here the main word, which is contrary to Article 8 or Article 8. The Rules of Procedure do not normally comply with the Code of Conduct. This is the latest, third time, to insult us, to throw us out of our seats, to laugh at us. So last time she did it towards Mr. Bosić and Mr. Bećirović. Let's just say, when Mr. Bećirović mentioned Ukraine, the woman laughed, it's not funny. She wouldn't let Mr. Bosić talk. Now let me go back, since I have little knowledge. I have enough knowledge to tell you that in these institutions you've earned a million and two hundred thousand dollars, a million and two hundred dollars, and I've made you a digression -- how do you have money to pay for this severance payment when it comes to the retirement of our delegates from the House of Nations, so you have money, you have money to pay for two jubilee prizes, and you don't have money to give to our employees but you have money to pay for yourself, how do you have money to pay your salaries? So, please don't underestimate our intelligence, I beg you, and don't be offended here, I warn you for the third time, for the third time, you're very uncomfortable, I feel like sometimes there's an evil coming out of you. I understand your position, I can understand the political position and I can understand it, although Mr. Bevanda may, I really respect him and appreciate him as an expert, I've had the opportunity to work with him and I know how much a man knows and how hard he's trying, and I have in this whole story the budget's not being passed and last year and now, there's this political reason that you all know, but you won't talk about it. But no matter what it is, let's settle this issue today, is this to leave under the rug, I don't have a political party behind, I don't deal with populism, so, no, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3110	A colleague of Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3111	I represent the citizens of Croatian nationality who elected me to the House of Peoples just like you, not to say who helped you to come here, so don't let me communicate....
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3112	It's time, fellow Miletić. Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Bradar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3113	Well, I'm the one who called in a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm gonna have to fix it and blame it. You were elected by a part of the envoys at the House of the Federation Parliament from the Croatian People's Club, no citizens. So, the Croatian People's Club is a club of constituent people, you've been elected to the assembly as, on behalf of the citizens, and you've come to the House of Peoples as
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3114	22 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3115	No, no, you said the citizens of Croatian nationality,
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3116	Finish your co-workers.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3117	And I beg you, we here... this is happening to us all the time, we're discussing the procedure, so if we're going to discuss the content of the law now, then we can, I ask all our colleagues to turn to the procedure, we're talking about an emergency procedure or an emergency procedure, and I'm asking that we don't conduct discussions on the content of the law, because every time we get tired of it, and in the end, we lose the sense that we're even discussing this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3118	Thank you very much. Since there are no more corrections to false allegations. A kolegica of Pendeš, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3119	I thank the president. How much does it make sense to report now, but in any case it is very important that we now discuss and adopt the adoption of this Act for a hasty procedure for a simple reason for a long time and civil servants, and members of the Armed Forces, and police officers at BiH level await an increase in salaries especially when we consider the fact that earlier, as the finance minister himself has spoken, the basis has been reduced and that he has calculated in this budget request, meaning, for this new budget to be, he should be the basis of 535 and I think it is important that we give support today. It's not populism, it's no intention, because every other year we have elections, whether it's a general or a local election, we can't talk, we're in a permanent election session. In this regard, I have reported that it is important that we make this decision today, that we adopt an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3120	Thank you. We're closing the hearing, no more reports. Please vote on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the draft law by a hasty procedure, and in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 - for 11, versus 4, abstention none. Federation of BiH – 10 for Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. We have a general, but we don't have an entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3121	23 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3122	Thank you. We'll get back to you later. We're moving to the point of five today's agenda, Ad. 5. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider draft law on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02-02-1-393/22 of 11. 3. 2022. I'm opening a debate only on procedure. How no one's answering for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3124	Can I? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3125	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3126	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3127	I'm sorry, colleague Arnaut, you just heard, and at each of the following, we will have to stick to the rules of procedure and last time I think it was similar when it came to colleagues Magazinović, today there is also a colleague, Lovrinović, on the second point, but since we do not have a formal representative of the House of Representatives according to the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, that is so.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3128	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3129	Comrade Arnaut, I respect you, but please, you are welcome guest here today, but you do not have the possibility of involvement in the debate. I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Mladen Bosić, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3130	Well, here, I can't make myself any expert on procedures and Rules of Procedure, and as far as I've been able to see, there's no provision anywhere that representatives from the House of Representatives must have confirmation that they are representatives. But I ask you to enlighten me 24 on the basis of which such a decision was made, and on which people are eliminated to represent and propose the laws that they represented in the House of Representatives. As far as I understand it, it's your discretionary right as someone who presides at the House to assess whether it's an adequate representative and to give him your word, if I'm wrong, please correct me on this. So, I didn't find in the Rules of Procedure any obligation from the House of Representatives to have people, uh, bring in confirmation when they get here, and I'm already listening to it, I don't know which time here as a rule.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3131	Thank you very much, fellow Bosić. So you could have listened to this for the last seven or eight years and so regularly, and so regularly, according to the Rules of Procedure, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3132	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3133	All right, colleague Arnaut, I'm gonna ask you to really respect this House, today you're welcome guest here and I ask you to turn off... more throwing. We are having a debate on the procedure, that there are no reports of the procedure itself, therefore, whether or not we are going to consider this by a hasty procedure, we are opening the voting process on the procedure. Please, we are voting on whether or not we are going to consider the draft law on a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 – for 7, versus 8. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. I agree, therefore, that the motion for a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in BiH institutions has not been adopted in accordance with Article 124.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3134	No procedures have been adopted. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3135	No procedures have been adopted, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3136	Let's see what we do next. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3137	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3138	Is it automatic... [[no microphone turned on]] 25
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3139	How, as we, uh, finished the rush procedure, we're going to a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3140	Then that's what we just said about this... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3141	We're voting, so, colleague, you two colleagues, to ask if we have a problem, we need to agree on any of this, since there's no entity... we have no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3142	There's no general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3143	There's no general majority, so we have nothing to discuss. Is that okay now?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3144	Yes... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3145	Thank you very much. So, we're going to make a statement about the shortened procedure when it comes to this law. Please initiate voting procedure. Attendance 15 – for 7, versus 8. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority. I konstatirati that no proposal has been adopted for this law to be implemented under a shortened procedure. The law goes into regular procedure. Thank you very much. Moving to the six-day agenda, that's it, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-1-2100/21 of 29. 12. 2021, shortened procedure (first reading) Here you go, fellow Bećirović. You signed up for your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3147	I must first say that at this previous agenda point, I did not expect you to vote against the emergency procedure, because at the beginning of this session you proposed to us a notice from the College that you would send a request for an accelerated award of BiH's candidate status. I was counting on what you did at the beginning of the session that now these key European laws are going to go, but obviously you want to cheat and bh. the public and the entire European public. 26 Behold, you have the Law on VSTV, I hope you will support this at least, was adopted in the House of Representatives, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, where you have a parliamentary majority and at least I expect you not to reject this now. I remind you, today is March 24th, and on March 14th, so, ten days ago, at the emergency session, I suggested to you here, so you refused, to classify it, and that indeed, it is a declarative commitment to the European Union, because it is declaratively showing your vote. In the European Union, you don't go with empty passwords that you want there, but with the adoption of concrete laws, with the adoption of concrete principles and standards, but it obviously doesn't happen here. I hope there won't be, under the circumstances, a slip at least when it comes to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3148	Thank you very much. With the failures of leadership, let me finish these thoughts that I should have read at the beginning. How this first reading of the Bill of Law is Article 103. Rules of Procedure, we will first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. As the House of Representatives adopted the bill at its 27th session of 09.03., you received the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative and legal sector has confirmed that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the bill was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of BiH, and adopted the principles of the Law. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, if necessary, colleague Čolak. No, thank you very much. Proposer of the Law, if necessary. No, thank you very much. We've opened the debate formally, by my mistake, already. Is anyone else answering for word? If there are no reports, we close the debate on this agenda point. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in its first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 - for 11, versus 4. Federation of BiH – 10 for Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. We have a father, but we don't have an entity majority. [[/consultations of the College.]] The deal is that we go to a later match, since we don't have the necessary entity majority. Thank you very much. 27 We move to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act (first reading), Proposer: House of Representatives, issue: 02-02-1-378/22 of 11. 3. 2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3151	/no microphone/... tax on additional value was included, thereby practically opening the procedure for amendment action and thus allowing everyone who thinks they can contribute to obtaining the best possible law to take part in it. Maybe this is the way we need to work, because emergency procedures include attitudes of the House of Representatives and absolute disrespect to the House of Peoples, it's not right and in the future when making proposals will make sure that... that there is another home, an equal home for which it's probably interesting what he thinks about certain laws. And I think in these circumstances we have had the best possible solution, so follow the amendment phase, be active and make this law as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3152	Thank you. I give my word to the lawmaker if there's any need. No, I'm opening a debate. Comrade Bećirović, here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3153	I would like to say, of course, that this is not the first debate on this topic within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that I will support this bill. Of course, there are arguments... However, I must say, as long as there is money in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and in the Council of Ministers for the most expensive cars, for huge severances, for buying expensive furniture, etc., then there must be room for discussions on such proposals and laws. Personally, I would like to say that I would prefer that the BiH Council of Ministers this year, last or earlier, came out with a proposal like this or similar. Unfortunately, we didn't get anything from the Council of Ministers. I must also point to the continuity of this proposal. In fact, it seems to me that the first such proposal to introduce more VAT rates has just been proposed by the president of the SDP Club, the late Jozo Križanović in the House of Representatives, even in 2008 or 2009, and if nothing, in any case, this is an opportunity to point to some facts and some things. In this proposal, therefore, we have a reduced VAT rate of 5% on medicines, healthcare aids, flour, bread, all kinds of milk, edible oils, and to introduce a higher rate of 22% for, in short, luxury. In the context of the debate on this issue, this argument also often arises that we could not technically perform it if we had more rates because, some even mention, the European Union. This is not true for the simple reason that there are almost no countries where there are no more rates in the European Union. If we are already going to call on European experiences, then we should also say the facts. One Italy is from 1972 to 2004. 29 times changed the rate and VAT rates, 29 times. One Ireland, or Ireland, is 29 times, and Italy is about 19 times similar. I have prepared for this session the subject of VAT rates in EU countries, see how things are. So, apparently judging by the mood as it was in previous months and previous years, and this will fall, but I am still calling on you, those who decide both in the Council of Ministers and in the structures of the government, to consider how in this way, there will probably be a worse economic crisis, to act. Why don't we at the House of Peoples, here at the first next session, get some concrete proposals from the Council of Ministers. Why would the Council of Ministers, including in co-operation with entity governments, not propose a programme of economic measures and other measures to help people in this country? Unfortunately, you have to admit, it all came down to the criticism of what mostly comes from opposition parties, which is a bit of a strange situation. You have the Council of Ministers, you have the parliamentary majority, you have many more MPs and delegates, you are fully open to better and better-quality proposals. At least take advantage of that possibility for the sake of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3154	Thank you. My kolegica Bradar, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3155	Thank you. So each Law and this Law should provide some key answers to certain questions. What are economic effects, social, financial, economic, political. I have no answer to this question, except for this, perhaps, politically or in one way, I have not received a populist one. What should be our ultimate goal is to protect residents and end-use in BiH should be focused, and this partial proposal for measures will certainly not contribute. You have now mentioned much more developed, you have mentioned the countries of Europe and so far it has proved that this unique VAT rate has proved to be a measure everywhere, far the best option of VAT taxation policy from an economic point of view. What's also a good measure in these 29 situations, since this is all about us, and we don't have a budget, I think serious countries are working on increasing consumption, not talking about public spending but spending. So you can never do economic and social policy from the point of view of the expenditure side, but you have to increase revenues to be able to run social policy. In BiH, social policy is located in Republika Srpska at entity level, and in the Federation it is divided between canton and the Federation. Thus, I understand the desire and need to, therefore, reduce VAT rates and increase to luxury products. What is a key problem here, that our Direct Taxation Authority, since it has such a planned system and software, is unable to implement a differentiated VAT rate automatically, means it takes a certain time to implement this measure. Any economic measure in this situation, and here's the Central Bank announced yesterday, even though we last year, those who remember, asked the Central Bank how much inflation there is in BiH, they did not. They already have 2022 oversights that inflation will grow more and more. So what happens in BiH is that we have speculative, speculative current behaviour on the market and I think that every measure we can take, so here we are in this House and the highest legislative bodies of the Federation authorities and colleagues, both in the county and in the municipalities, makes sense if it is direct and can be implemented immediately. Now talk about VAT, and it takes half a year to introduce yourself into the system even though you do not have the ability to control it can only turn into a counterfact because I am not sure that we have control mechanisms in which we will control the VAT reduction to 5.0 or in any way and what effect our BiH residents and residents will have at all, how much it will affect the basket. Here, this is my contribution and I think there are a lot of discussions and a lot of different models in the environment fighting this current economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3156	Thank you. My friend Bosić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3157	Thank you, Chairman. So, the fact is that there was a shift in the last session on attitudes and on excise duties and on the change in the VAT law. It seems to me that this time HDZ will take responsibility for not adopting this Act, at least according to what I've just heard, as the SNSD last time took responsibility for rejecting the emergency procedure, and therefore, probably the Excise Act. So there's no political will here to do anything at this time to show the citizens that the government is doing a function for which they get paid and for which they are set up, that is to give them a better life. I ask you to explain to me whether the indirect taxation administration will say all of this because last time it was a story that we can't do it without the opinion of the indirect taxation administration, and I read from the media that the administration sent you its opinion and its analysis of the situation that I didn't officially get. I don't know if it's divided by delegates here, but I didn't win. What about the Board's opinion, is it a private renegade that sends a single opinion to someone, or is it an institution that should inform Parliament of its opinion? If the media can announce yesterday's opinion of the indirect taxation board, why don't we have it here? After all, the Directorate for Direct Taxation paints the political will of the ruling majority and authorities in BiH. The Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Board has been appointed by the highest authorities, meaning ministers, at entity and state level and is a clear reflection of the political majority's representation in the structures of government. And the Indirect Taxation Authority has opinions about how they are ordered by their political option 30 and don't let us talk about experts, this is about politics. The Directorate for indirect taxation through its Management Board is a pure political body, the performer of the political will of those who have appointed them. And now I'm going to say that even though we didn't get it and although it leaked that report to the Directorate for Indirect Taxation that it is clear from it that these directives actually were for them – give an explanation not to accept this Law and the amendment of this Law. Because everything in that report that I read is the opposite of the adoption of that Law. So there's no political will for him to adopt, and this whole story is our show for the public, when who's going to take responsibility for blocking something and not adopting something. Now, all I'd ask is, until I've finished the presentation, will you tell me if it's going to be that report and will someone explain that report to the I.D.? Chairman, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3158	I'm waiting for you to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3159	Well, I know, you can fillibaster here as much as you want, these are serious topics. So, is there gonna be a report or should I be saying something else? Shall I say what the report says?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3160	...my attitude while you're still standing, then wait a little longer. It is here with us to help the director of the Department of Implicit Taxation and will have the opportunity to address you, and to all of us regarding these topics. So, we have here a representative, an authorised board representative, if that helps you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3161	It is extremely incorrect that even though you got it either yesterday or a few days ago, you don't deliver it to us as delegates in this House. I think it is the highlight of this House's disrespect. And I'm just going to read you what their report is, the I.D.'s. One of the points in this report says – that it is necessary to bear in mind and the fact that, according to some studies, the introduction of a lower tax rate does not mean a reduction in social differences because such a reduced rate can bring double the benefit of the rich and the poor, thus indirectly subsidising rich people, because they also buy these products as well as the poor, and taxing them at a lower rate other than the poor are also being assisted by citizens with stronger economic power. So what expert could write a sentence like this? Is this the IRS? You know what it occurred to me when I read this, that famous quote from Alan Ford came to me, saying, "Be rich and healthy, rather than poor and sick, 'cause if you're sick, you're poor." Now, that's the level of this report and this one... and it's all clear, we can discuss here as much as you want, it's all clear here.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3162	Thank you, fellow Bosić. Now we have two corrections to the wrong allegations, then a debate. kolegica Majkić, please. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3163	So, I am obliged to... since we have talked about other things, I did not want to compromise on what the principle of the Law is, and that is what I am obliged to say, that because of the large polemics in the public how certain political parties see the solution to VAT issues, the National Assembly has reached conclusions binding on all Serbian representatives in the BiH institutions, and they say that the proposal for a law supplementing the VAT law defines a reduced VAT rate of 0%, of 0%, of all basic life supplies and a higher VAT rate of 22% on luxury goods, services and other things. So this was brought by the National Assembly, and in that sense we will act in amendment. That's why it was important for us and happiness, so he made a mistake at the House of Representatives, so he didn't send it to us as an emergency procedure. So... by law... so it's a good solution to be 0%. Well, I hope it brings a little more light into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3164	Thank you, colleague Majkić. My kolegica Bradar, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3165	Well, here I am, reporting for the correction of the wrong quote because this is often happening at our sessions, so that colleagues know what our colleagues know about what they think, what they feel, what they predict, how they vote. So, here, I don't think it's correct in any case, and we're, we don't look at this law at all with two aspects, and I'm sorry that it wasn't proposed by the Council of Ministers in any case, which is easier to do both projections and revenues, and how this will reflect, how inflation will affect the price itself, how much that VAT will have effect, and the elimination of VAT, on everything that's happening on the market. What everyone is now calling for Western countries that have introduced practice is an elastic and insatiable demand. So basic supplies have nothing to do with the price. Now the question is, can we go in which direction we're going? So the VAT cut will already, everyone knows, cut revenue. In the income structure and VAT structure, basic life supplies range from, I don't know, 65 to 75% of VAT, so now you just calculate on a million marks of income from indirect taxes in all our budgets how it might look. So, here, that's my correction to the wrong assumption, this isn't so one-way, so none of us, I think there are other ways to help the population, but I note that basic life-forms are, are not elastic with prices.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3166	Thank you. A colleague of Bosić, a correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3167	First of all, the chairman, you said that after my discussion you would give an explanation of the report for... 32
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3168	I did while you were talking, unfortunately. My colleague's here as soon as we're done, he'll get his word, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3169	Okay, but it'd be nice for us to hear it, so if we...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3170	Here, as soon as you're done...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3171	...the discussions and the false allegations, and then to let him go, I mean that's a clear intention. I am pleasantly surprised by this view that the SNSD will amend this law, I support in any case. Let me just say that by bringing the majority of the assembly to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, it is the attitude of the congregation majority and not of those I represent, because the ones I represent did not vote for that congregation majority and those who elected me here in this House have received votes from people who do not think as the congregation majority thinks, and that is why we are on different sides. But regardless, this is a good sign and it's good to show that public opinion can change something here because last time we heard about the instability of this law, I don't know what we are, let's not listen, I should've listened to what you said about why this law couldn't possibly get in the process, but it's okay, here, we have some positive shift. So I don't mind even voting for change, if there are changes and if they are amended, I will give my vote for amendments, but I hope that this law will not be removed from the agenda today and will ultimately have its effects on the satisfaction of all of us. So... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3173	Come on, you finish up, and we'll throw ourselves at each other later.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3174	So if I made a mistake, Mrs. Bradar, I apologize, if my assessment is not correct, this was my assessment based on your discussion. I'll be glad I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3175	Thank you, fellow Bosić. We don't have any more IDs. We're going to have an argument. kolegica Pendeš, come in. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3176	...and I'm glad in some way but it looks like a pre-election campaign has begun, prematurely, and that is why it is very important, among other things, to make changes to the electoral law, not only to protect the Croatian people and constitutionality, but also to prevent the pre-election campaign before the month before the elections, as Mr Bosić has already set out, because here he has not been active for almost three years, he has not participated in the comments or in the votes, but the last two sessions are very active. When we talk about amending this Act, I find it interesting that suddenly the party to which it belongs is proposing these amendments, and their former minister and expert on economic issues, Mrs Cenić, perhaps ten days ago, fifteen days ago in a public appearance, said it was politics and that it was already a pre-election campaign. If we really want to help all BiH citizens in an uninvited situation, meaning from municipal to state level, it does not have to mean that with the change or differentiated VAT rate, we will do so because we see that we do not have clear indicators of the change from the existing VAT rate to this differentiated. We can do so through government decisions, entities, cantons, municipalities, Brcko District. It is interesting, and I have to connect to the previous debate of BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Mr Bevanda, who told us about the fiscal framework. It cannot happen that no fiscal framework has been adopted at national level, and entities have either adopted or are in the phase of adoption of the budget. So, all this negatively affects BiH's fiscal stability, today we read about inflation as well. So it's very important that we be responsible and not subject to just a moment of how we're going to like citizens or possible voters, and in that sense, because there are some things that are not clear to me, I can't say that I'm an economist, that I understand, if I can ask for a break that I can consult. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3177	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Bosić. Here you go. If you've given up, you'll have to retreat from the monitor.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3178	By the time I checked in, Mrs. Pendeš, I mean, these ground floor comments and grades and mentioning some minister. Do you know when Mrs. Cenić was Minister? In 2005, when they passed the Law, she obviously participated in it and was, exactly, in front of the SDS Minister in Republika Srpska's government and advocated a unique rate and is part of its political view. A woman more than 2007, I think has nothing to do with the SDS, and we have nothing to do with her. She's like some independent political analyst now and she has the right to think what she wants. This is the proposal that came from, at this point from the congregation's majority in the House of Representatives, that's how we treat it. I have my own opinion, you can't threaten me or make me give up my opinion, and it's okay that you have yours, but this, this personal assault and personal disciplining talk more about a lack of arguments than that you're right about anything. And let me tell you, what you should have in mind is that you from Dejton so far are like a break, one of the three most important players, perhaps the most important player on the political scene of BiH. Yes, I don't know if HDZ has fallen out of power since the first establishment of joint institutions. It may be, but, well, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't 34
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3179	Not because of the HDZ, but because of the time we've been broken, I'm going to warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3180	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3181	That's how it worked out. Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3182	The Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Bosić, with his now, has not corrected any of my guilty allegations, so here, please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3183	Thank you very much. No more corrections to the wrong quote. My colleague Miletić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3184	So I'm gonna try to say a few words to maybe put this discussion back into some normal frames. Namely, what's this about? Given that I am at the last regular session of the House of the People of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which was also not there at the time, so to remind you that it was 22.02, I asked the Council of Ministers to bring a package of measures to the differentiated VAT rates, to the abolition of repulika srpski, to help pensioners or pensioners, businesses, agriculture, etc., since it expired normally in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to answer that question, that people were doing their job on time today would probably not discuss this. Now, with that in mind, the impunity or the untimelyness of their actions, I welcome in any case Mr. Šarović's move that, if he did nothing to give us at least one, such a bill that will solve this issue to some extent. I, given the fact that last year in BiH, and I read that somewhere, bought 20 motor vehicles worth over half a million marks. At the same time, we have 25% of the BiH population, meaning from all peoples, means both Srbin and Hrvat, and Bošnjak and BiH citizens living on the edge of poverty. I really think it's necessary to bring this kind of measure. And also, when I came forward to refer to these questions and I would really ask an assistant and I think Mr. Bosić is right, here are some other delegates and envoys on this issue, and they said it would be appropriate indeed if we had received this explanation from the administration in time, that we could have met him. If it is already coming out, I am also interested in the data given that I am also not an economist, and I see these, many economic experts in BiH say the following information, that in this matter three months, when it comes to excise duties, more than 200,000 pairs were collected compared to the quarter last year. So, the essence of this discussion of mine is to ask you to do it one way or another, respecting Mrs. Majkić's proposal, I'm not against it, that the amendment 35 works, so it's not 5%, take down 7.0%, I really don't mind. So, the bottom line of this is how we help the citizens of this country. If it's already an excuse that these 500 and something million, it's going to be less in the budget, if I get it right, at least according to these media signs, I'm interested in very much information, if this doesn't happen, what's going to do with that extra money that's going to be collected, so here these three months, in the opinion of these economic experts again? I'd really like to ask you, so really, come on, what the people in Bosnia say, we're going to do a dead end. Let us indeed help the citizens of this country, at least in one way, to cope more easily with this economic crisis, regardless of which political party it comes from, we should not simply have the compliment of what he suggested. I really don't care, I don't look at it at all if it's something useful for the citizens of this country, let's go over these certain political differences, just in order to help the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3185	Thank you. Comrade Špirić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3186	I would like to thank my colleague, the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow delegates, distinguished guests. I think it's good to talk today about both the second and second proposal, so the Law on Change of Rates in VAT and the Excise Act. The intention of us from the SNSD is to bring here laws that are in accordance with the Constitution and which do not violate other laws in this area. I find it hard to hear someone say – it is good that someone has proposed such a law and what kind of law is adopted by one of the homes. I also warned last time that when proposing the law must respect the Constitution and other laws in the area. I have to tell you today that why we will, because we are aware that we want to do something in the interest of the citizens and we keep it in regular procedure to see if it can be fixed. So I ask those who think this is a good suggestion to answer me some questions: why is Article 14. The law on the system? He knows that he should ask for the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, so that we do not dispute. What kind of attitude the administration will be when it comes, we'll read it. It may be binding or not binding on you even though a member of the Law is explicit in that area. We have now received the position of the Board of Direct Taxation, but we do not have the position of the Management Board so that it is not simple matter that system law... does not like some people, or citizens more than we do here, we are not divided into peoples or idiots but what kind of law speaks of such a state. So we who advocate the application of the Constitution want constitutional laws. I have to ask the promoter, he says, I asked for it last time, so you thought you leaned on me for social negative energy. As an MP, I am obliged to defend the Constitution and the law. It is said that when six months are up, let's say the Excise Act, the Council of Ministers will decide to extend the period of validity. Where else in which world is Parliament's legislative role transferred to executive power? How do we think that? Who can determine when the law comes into force? If the administration tells us that it's in no condition for technical reasons to apply the law,...here from tomorrow you'll have less excise duty,... 30, 60, I don't know how many days it takes, and we can say the entry into force on the day of adoption, on the day of publication, etc. Which law is in force in the meantime, when you pass a new law, an older ad act, there's no old law. So we're going into lawlessness, I'm just asking you dear colleagues, I want to make a good decision. Third, we must not produce legal uncertainty in the field of taxes, and a member of the BiH Constitution, Article 4 point 2 as 36, which prescribes that laws are passed, you cannot amend... the law and we will say we will return in half a year to the same. Same procedure for change again, and we know what kind of political environment we live in. It was just my warning. The last time that you... send to the citizens... here, we will leave it in the regular procedure and ask everyone to give answers to this question, I do not have the answers alone and will not be helped by those others who are on the Management Board but there is no point in having us here consciously come to a legal solution that will not be applicable and that violates the Constitution and the law. And that's why regular procedures may be the best thing to do to remove these weaknesses. I won't dispute the opposition's good intentions, that she wants to help, but that can't give us arguments to come to any law that won't be enforceable or law that violates the constitution or the system laws. Why? It's not true that it's just politics. In the Management Board, the entity finance ministers, Mr Bevanda's finance minister at the level of BiH, three experts, people have to talk, and that is why it is said in Article 14. what is the obligation of the Management Board. So this isn't simple math, it's not a theme for racing. I respect all the good ideas but let's go in the regular procedure if there's a chance that we can shape it to be a law of benefit to citizens, a law that doesn't violate the Constitution, a law that doesn't break other laws. Everything else we do will produce countless arguments here and racing who is for the citizens, who is not for the citizens. At a time of great crisis, and this is the situation where we are, it is the direct transfers of governments that can help both pay policy and pension policy, and social giving, and support the real sector that is all at these addresses. We've come into this ourselves, or something skilled has pushed us to argue over this jurisdiction that is jurisdiction at the state level, but let's please make a decision not to make a problem. It is true that in the case of excise duties in one year there will be less income of 600,000, VAT and excise duties that will be 120,000,000, but that is less important. It's important that we pass enforceable laws and that these effects come to citizens. With excises, this law doesn't say, and that's a big problem, what happens to supplies? So, what happens to the stocks on which the excises are paid? Are those excises gonna come back? What time will he be back? I just want to warn you, it's one policy, and the other is when you go in and put it all on paper. I'm not going to demean anyone's idea, but understand this offer of ours that we want to talk in a regular procedure, and we ask you to respond with us to these misunderstandings regarding violations of the law and the Constitution, what are we going to do with that? izići out in public and say that you are ready to break the law and the Constitution and that is not the problem, and then those who exercise power will decide whether they are ready. If we all decide we're ready to break the law and the constitution, then we've signed a solution to anarchy in this country, I'm against anarchy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3187	Thank you, fellow Špirić. I don't see any more complaints. I think we've given and opened up a lot of questions that in the regular procedure we can ultimately find these questions in the right way and get answers in the right way, find solutions. I will now ask the Office's representative for indirect taxation that, on the trail so far said, a shorter review, and while you are coming, I will make it very clear that we will also ask the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and your Administration today to give us a detailed cut of the economic, legal consequences, i.e. advantages, a clear view of many of these issues that you have heard today and which are already open to the public. Thank you very much. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3188	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, delegates of the House and other guests. I will try very briefly to expose myself, firstly to introduce myself to Muharem Mašinović, assistant director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, operational director of the Tax Sector, and here first of all I will speak as operational director of the Tax Sector. When I'm talking about that part, it means as an operational manager, I'm talking about that whatever the law comes will be implemented by the management, of course, because the management is an executive body, but we're trying to make that law enforceable. We have a problem with the existing Law Proposal, it is very difficult to implement because the deadline that is set for implementation, for the application of this Law is so short that it cannot be respected by the Tax Administration either, and can't be subject to indirect tax bonds, because neither they, as well as the Administration, can adapt their software, their records, can adapt their VAT returns, that it can be respected in time, that it can be transmitted. They would come into a certain time vacuum where it would simply become a question of how to apply the VAT Act. In terms of interpretation of different rates as regards differentiated rates and whether one rate or more benefits from and from a social character aspect, more is, therefore, the opinions given in economic theory also mean that one rate is far more efficient, far more enforceable, less administratively difficult, and that social policy measures are implemented, means, in the manner of measures and interventions, government packages as users who simply provide for all means of indirect tax each day in the way that is provided for in this procedure. These reasons, meaning the non-implementability of the VAT Act, are also not the same as the prescribed part of the stock, in such a way as to resolve the stock as a transitional provision, suggest simply the problem of releasing the Act. In addition, we must say that this law is deviating from the European directives, meaning the introduction of a higher rate, clearly it is necessary to tax the luxury and that part stands, but other instruments are foreseen for this. There is a law on excise duties that is otherwise accessible to it. Also, as we said this lower part is taxed through certain other segments. I would only ask that we be careful with regard to the analysis that has been delivered, which exists, to keep in mind that, that's where the data are listed only for imports. Of course, for those data, we need to add data on the differences between import prices and the final retail price, to increase that VAT, to introduce special consideration for products produced in BiH, such as flour, because for flour we have a very small indicator of VAT and a small indicator of the difference, since the flour from imports may be about 10%, so that the difference essentially in flour when taken from the domestic market means about 40,000,000 additional. In addition, we have to keep in mind that in the production of flour, 5% is in the flour market, but the purchase is 17% because the wheat is taxed by 17%, so in addition to that reduction that would be based on the lower rate, we also have part of the loss of income that is distinguished through the higher income tax of the producer of flour if the state would return, so that is double, means double reduction that would occur. These are fiscal arguments that we have to point out because the administration is in charge of financial stability and macroeconomic sustainability of BiH and I think it is better, the opinion of the Administration is that these funds are better otherwise, meaning, direct, possibly, this drop in funds to be otherwise placed in social transfers. Finally, only the conclusion of the Administration remains, meaning that it is impossible to adopt a rule within such time limits in the application of the VAT, the new application of the VAT, it is impossible to adopt the Regulation in a legal manner because the Regulation is adopted in accordance with the unique rules for the adoption of legal 38 acts and cannot be adopted in any way in this time-limit and the application would simply not be possible. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3189	Thank you. My colleague Bosiću's debate was concluded earlier, since this was only the first reading, I am sure that we will unanimously support this going into a regular procedure, that we have enough room for repairs to do whatever is necessary when it comes to this law, and we will also try to equip our Secretariat with the item of the agenda when it is in regular procedure with the opinions of experts of all institutions that, according to our legislation, are related to value added tax, so that we can have all the same information and complete information in due time. We need to know that because of the short time we gave these institutions, we couldn't get more complete answers as pans. So, I've concluded the debate with this. Kola Bećirović, correction of the wrong quote, here you are or the violation of the Rules of Procedure which is already yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3190	A kolega of Čović, indeed well-intentioned, but give Mr Bosić a word, can't be concluded at meetings by either house after the guests, the debates are concluded after the debate of delegates who have the right to comment and express their opinion. Really well-intentioned according to the Rules of Procedure, give the word to Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3191	A colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3192	I'm pulling... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3193	It's okay, then you wipe yourself out here, thank you very much, so we've solved the problem. But I will beg you, if we have a good wish, as we all have, or we want to show that we have, let us respect the Rules of Procedure whether you like it or not, and then we will come to the final goal. We concluded the debate earlier, we heard this further reflection of the Administration, the representative of the Administration, I hope that it will equip us fully, thoroughly, when we are in a regular procedure that we can possibly bring some repairs further to the best solutions. My colleague Miletić, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3194	...if you'll excuse me, Mr. President. So, respecting whether or not, Mr. Assistant's intelligence and integrity, I really don't mind, if we could let him talk to me, I don't see why we don't allow our fellow MPs from the House of Representatives, I don't think that's right for me, but okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3195	kolega. Miletić, a colleague, has received written authority to represent the Directorate for indirect taxation and that is enough for me when he comes on behalf of the Administration to be a representative here of the Management Board, so so far we have treated all the institutions that are here as guests and please, please respect that, right? But I hope you are, I hope we understand each other. I'm closing the debate on, and these additional comments, and explanations. We're initiating voting procedure. Please initiate procedure. We are voting on a proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers' Law in first reading, I'm sorry, about VAT first reading. Thank you very much. Here, as we've been about through the debates. Attending 15 — For 15. Federation of BiH – 10 all for, Republika Srpska – 5 all for. We have a general, entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value was adopted in the first reading. Thank you very much. Here's to letting the green come this way more and more of this ahead of us, some of us will be glad. Point eight of today's agenda, sorry. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers Act (first reading), Proposer: House of Representatives, issue: 02-02-1-862/21 of 18. Six. 2021. This is the first reading of the bill, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's parliamentary house at the 21st session of 15.06 last year adopted the bill. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the bill does not contain the opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. The proposed House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delivered 19.07.2011. The opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. The constitutional commission of the People's House found that the bill was in line with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, colleague Čolak, if there is any need. No, thank you very much. 40 I give the word to the proposer. Thank you very much, we don't have it. We're opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Since there are no reports, and I don't see any interest in the application, I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH in the first reading. Thank you very much. Attending 15 – for 7, against no one, abstentioned 8. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 4 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 abstentions. There's a general, and there's no entity majority. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3199	No, no, we're done voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3200	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3201	An emergency procedure has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3202	The emergency procedure was not accepted, because we have a sufficient majority against the club, where the ethnic majority of the Serbian People's Club was missing. Thank you very much. [[Disable microphone]] ...a shortened procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. At present 15 - 10 for, versus 4, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 10 all for, Republika Srpska – 4 against and 1 abstention. There's a general, but there's no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3204	The alignment. [[no microphone turned on]] [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3205	Unfortunately, this too remains for a later consent. Thank you very much. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's point 10. Ad. Ten. Report by the College of Colleges on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01,02-02-1-1223/21 of 16. Six. 2021. At the 19th meeting of the People's House, held on 01.07.2011, a request from the Council of Ministers of BiH was discussed to discuss the proposal for a law on customs violations of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. During the vote, that request did not receive the necessary entity majority, so it was agreed in the College of the People's House as a committee. You have received a report from the Commission from the College of the People's House on the effort of 42 to reach agreement on that report. The college didn't achieve consent, there's no debate here. In accordance with Article 75(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, we vote on the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of BiH by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of the votes cast by those present and voting, provided that the votes against them do not contain 2/3 or more of the votes of the envoys elected from each entity. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 15 — for 14, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 10 for, all for, Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 abstention. We have a general and entity majority. I find the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the proposal for a law on customs infringements of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have been adopted. We're opening a debate under this law. Since there are no reported, and I can't see – is there an interest in the application for a colleague? I don't see any interest in reporting, we're closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 - for 14, against none, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 10 all for, Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the proposal for a law on customs violations of BiH was adopted by a hasty procedure. Thank you very much. Moving to the next item of the agenda, point 11. Ad. 11. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), issue: 01,02-02-1-764/21 of 30. 4. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3208	It's Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3209	Serbian club co-worker Sredoje Nović. A colleague of Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3210	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3211	counterpart Munib Jusufović in front of the Bosniak Club. In front of the Croatian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3212	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3213	A colleague of Marina Pendeš. We are voting on this proposal, please initiate the voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 15 — For 15. Federation of BiH – 10 all for, Republika Srpska – 5 all for. There's a general, entity majority. I agree with the members of the Joint Commission for the Consensus of Tex of the Law of the House of Peoples: colleagues Nović, colleagues Jusufović and counterpart Pendeš. Thank you very much. 44 We move to the 12th point of the agenda, Ad. 12. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work and business of BHRT for 2020 and the programme and financial plan for 2021, issue: 01,02-50-18-977/21 of 6. 5. 2021. The 20th meeting of the House of People, held on 23.02.2022, discussed the report on the work and business of BHRT for 2020 and the Progam and Financial Plan for 2021. During the vote, the said material did not receive the necessary entity majority, so it was agreed in the House College as a committee. You have received a report from the Commission from the College of the People's House on the effort to reach agreement on the specified material. The college didn't achieve consent, there's no debate here. The House of Representatives held at the 21st session, held on 15.05.2021, did not adopt the report on BHRT's work and business for 2020, and also failed to receive knowledge of the programme plan and the financial plan for 2021. In accordance with Article 75(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we vote on the report on the work and business of BHRT for 2020, decisions shall be made by a majority of the votes cast by those present and voting, provided that the votes against them do not contain 2/3 or more of the votes elected to each entity. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. At present 15 – for 6, versus 4, abstention 5. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 4 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 versus 1 abstention. There is a general, i.e. there is not enough majority to adopt this proposal again. I agree that the report on the work and business of BHRT for 2020 has not been adopted. In accordance with Article 75(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, we vote on the Programme Plan and the Finance Plan of the BHRT for 2021, decisions shall be made by a majority of the votes of those present and voting, provided that the votes against them do not contain 2/3 or more of the votes of the envoys elected from each entity. Please initiate voting procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3218	It's adopted, isn't it... [[no microphone turned on]] 2/3 against the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3219	There's no general.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3220	We don't have a general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3221	And there's no general majority, ah.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3222	We're moving on to item 15 of today's agenda, Ad. 15. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion number 4 proposed by the representatives of the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, which reads: "The home of the people of PSBiH finds that the Constitutional Court of BiH, coming out of its jurisdiction and against the constitutional provision that ‘BiH continues its legal existence towards international law as a state, but with the internal system amended as provided for in this Constitution, makes decisions contrary to the Constitution of BiH when it comes to state property. The BiH Constitution in Article III.3.a) stipulates that ‘all government functions and powers, which are not explicitly assigned under this Constitution to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, belong to entities’, number: 02-50-6-528-8/21 of 29. 11. 2021, of 15. 12. 2021. 47 At the 8th emergency/emergency session of the People's House, held on 29.11.2021, the proposal for a conclusion number 4 proposed by fellow representatives from the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, which reads: "The House of the Peoples of PSBiH finds that the Constitutional Court of BiH, coming out of its jurisdiction and against the constitutional provision that ‘BiH continues its legal existence according to international law as a state, but with the internal system amended as provided for in this Constitution’, makes decisions contrary to the BiH Constitution when it comes to state property. The BiH Constitution in Article III.3.a) stipulates that ‘all government functions and powers, which are not explicitly assigned to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, belong to entities’. During the vote, the proposed conclusion did not receive the necessary entity majority, so it was agreed by the College of the House as a committee. You have received a report from the College of the People's House on an effort to reach agreement on the proposed conclusion, the College has not reached agreement, there is no debate here. In accordance with Article 75(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, we vote on the proposal for a conclusion number 4 proposed by fellow representatives from the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, decisions are made by majority of the votes of those present and voting, provided that the votes against do not contain 2/3 and more votes of the envoys elected to each entity. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. At present 15 – for 4, versus 10.1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 10 against. Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find the conclusion number 4 proposed by representatives from the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić was not adopted. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion number 5 proposed by the representatives of the Serbian People's Club: Nikola Špirić, Sredoje Nović, Lazar Prodanović and Dušanka Majkić, which reads: "The people's House finds that the BiH Constitution has not explicitly given the right to property or jurisdiction to regulate ownership of state property, so it is necessary to resolve the issue by agreement between the two entities, the canton in the Federation of BiH, as well as the Brcko District of BiH, which is jointly owned (condominium) by the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH.", issue: 02-50-6-528-8/21 of 29. 11. 2021, of 15. 12. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3229	Thank you very much, President. What I'm going to ask you all in the O.R. together like this, I have to say that I'm amazed by one of the data I've read here, which refers to the total amount of money, and when it comes to the business of financial political parties. Astonishing is the fact that 81-12% of the funds for the functioning of political parties are detached from the budget and that depending on the administrative unit that the money gives, that range is from 1.31 to even 20% in individual environments or in translation, as it is written here, it is somewhere on the annual level of around 19 million marks. In the kind of unemployment and poverty that BiH citizens live in to give 19 million to political parties to make people live in such misery is really degutant. I would really ask you, all of you who have credibility, legitimateize, call it whatever you want, let's solve this question in a way that this is completely abolished, or if there's already got to be some sort of symbolic level, and let's say, under the alleged signs, a way of funding to be done by donors, members or some other person, but this really gives 20 million to the work of political parties and that citizens are paying us for the state of misery that we have in this country, this is a disaster. Thank you very much. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3230	Thank you. We're closing the hearing, no more reports. We are voting on the Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2019. Please initiate voting procedure. Attendance 15 – for 7, versus 8. Federation of BiH – 6 in, 4 against. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority. I find the report on the financial situation of political parties reviewed in 2019 has not been adopted. Thank you very much. Moving to the next item of the agenda 21. Ad. 21. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020, applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-2175/21 of 13. 12. 2021. You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, the Commission has adopted a report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020. The House of Representatives adopted a report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020 at its 27th session, held on 09.03.2022. I give my word to my colleague, Sarajlić, if need be. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I can't see interest in the application. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 - for 14, against none, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 10 for Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 abstention. General and entity majority. I am establishing a report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020 has been adopted. Thank you very much. 52 We move to the point of today’s 22nd agenda, Ad. 22. Information on the allocation and use of funds of current reserves allocated for the recovery of economic damages for period I. - XII. 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1219/21 of 15. Six. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3233	Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current economic damage recovery reserve in 2020 is a very important topic. Namely, the Council of Ministers planned for this purpose 27.180.000,00 KM, of which 25 million were approved, made 23 million, and the rest between planned and realised is 4.180.000,00 KM. So, it's 27 million converting marks, and it wouldn't be good if it just went away without any debate in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I remind you, this was unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers and as information, and the schedule of these funds was unanimously adopted. It seems to me from this material, which I read in detail, that there were no principles of justice and equality in BiH here, and I want to check that now, I have some questions that I ask for an answer either from the chairman of the Council of Ministers or from the finance minister. The detailed review of the appropriations and implementation of the budget reserve, which was therefore approved by the Council of Ministers, states, among other things, that in 2020, the University Clinical Centre of Banja Luka was allocated 4 million converting marks, the Clinical Centre of the University of Sarajevo 3.5 million, the University Clinical Hospital in Mostar 3.5 million and see now the information University Clinical Center of Tuzla 1.5 million. Now I want the Minister of Finance or the Chairman here at the House to argue on what was the criterion for this distribution, is it possible that the number of Kovid sufferers, is it the population criterion, the number of patients, or something like a fourth? Is there anyone who can answer this question now, before we vote in any way on this? I'm asking for a reason because I have conclusions about it. Comrade Chairman, can we get an answer to this question? 53
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3234	The answer in this room obviously you won't be able to win, if you want to ask that question, you could at first, and now, and go towards... to the Council of Ministers, since we don't even have a chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3235	Well, don't say that, so you...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3236	So we don't have the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Finance for this agenda point, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3237	Mr. Chairman, you've invited us to work on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3238	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3239	and I simply respected the Rules of Procedure waiting for this item of the agenda to discuss, I couldn't discuss the excise duties or the VAT on this subject, I came up with a question. Do we have a chance to postpone this topic for the next session? Here's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3240	You well know the Rules of Procedure of this House and you well know that the point....
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3241	Well, no, I know the Rules of Procedure well, but I also know that there are no Martians living in the Tuzlan region, living equal citizens. The most human canton in the Federation. The Tuzlan region is the most human in all of BiH, each third citizen of the minority there, as 1.5 million are possible, this one. I'm not asking someone to be taken away, I'm just looking for the principle of equality. By what criteria does someone tell me, 4 million Banja Luka, 3.5 million Mostar, Sarajevo, 1.5 million Tuzla? Well, maybe it's the biggest clinical center. Well, I believe you understand me, if we had the right as elected representatives to look for these facts, I would ask you to either invite them or to continue this debate at the next session, let that be the point of the agenda, let us answer. I don't need a personal answer to this question. I need people in this country. Half a million people live there, and at least they have the right to know by what criteria. Here, I've listed some, so let him say which criteria he was, what, I've decided the finance minister that he prefers, is, the Clinical Hospital in Mostar, rather than the Clinical Center in Tuzla or has some real criteria so let's hear it. I'm trying
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3242	I'm waiting for you to finish up. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3243	I'm trying, Mr. Chairman, to get this over with in a way that I'm talking about these facts, to just put it to a vote, to put it out loud as if nothing had been said. I'm trying in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to get an answer from someone from the Council of Ministers. If we can't get that answer, I'm really asking you to stop this point right now and make it a part of the agenda at the next session. Is that a different option? He can't. I'm really trying to make sure that according to the Rules of Procedure and how the House of People is arranged, to express what is necessary, we have the right to come to the truth by the Rules of Procedure. You can't share 27 million marks in this country and you don't have anyone here to say on the basis of which criteria he shared the current reserve. Well, I'm not the only one who cares about it, Miletić, I don't know, someone from the opposition, etc. I guess we all care about that. Since there's no one from the Council of Ministers, there's no one who can answer this question, here's what I'm proposing right now is concrete conclusions. Conclusion No. 1 – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH notes that the allocation and use of the funds of the current reserve allocated for the recovery of economic damage for period I. - XII.2020. years of injustice to the University Clinical Center of Tuzla. The second conclusion – The House of Nations asks the Council of Ministers to correct the injustice in a way that no later than three months after the adoption of these conclusions, it approves the funds from the budget reserve for the Tuzla University Clinical Centre in the amount of 2 million converting marks. With the adoption of these conclusions we would establish such justice and equality, because in that case UKC Tuzla would also get the Clinical Centre in Sarjevo and the University Hospital in Mostar, here in Banja Luka is approved 4 million, even so to correct this recording device. I must say the injustice because no one has answered me with any other criteria that it is not. I'm also delivering conclusions in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3244	Only now can I say thank you, colleague. I'm going to ask you to deliver your conclusions in writing. Comrade Prodanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3245	.... esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed present. We have a situation as it is and I must first say that it is positive and very commendable that the Council of Ministers has adopted a Decision on the allocation of funds for the current reserve for 2020. I must immediately say that once I spoke to the chairman of the Council of Ministers where he said they had taken care of that the most burdensome health institutions such as the University Clinical Centre in Sarajevo, the Banja Luka Clinical Center, the University Clinical Hospital in Mostar and this University Clinical Center in Tuzla were, on condition, a crittery. I, without any doubt, have this approach to transfer a certain amount of funds from the Council of Ministers' reserve, i.e. the BiH institution's budget to health institutions, that is to respect all that healthcare professionals have done in this dramaticly difficult situation. But in the second part, I don't think that it could have been better done, I say here, with all due respect that the clinical center in Banja Luka has received these funds, we've bypassed, say, the hospital, the University Hospital in Foca, I don't know, the hospital in Zvornik, Bijeljina or, on 55 lists, in Republika Srpska, the same number in relation to the hospital in Zenica, I don't know either, I'm aware of the importance of also the Clinical Centre in Tuzla and what I consider to be in order to send a much better message that if it makes an additional decision, it's not some amount, but it's a good message that we respect the burden of all of Bihaæ to Trebinj, how much they seemed to be behind the pandemic. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3246	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the wrong quote, counterpart Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3247	At the end of the Prodanović, at the end of the discussion, I must say that his argument is almost identical to mine, and this had to be done in a more just way. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I wouldn't exactly say whatever that means, but really in one specific way. Much of this debate, indeed, Mr. Chairman, lacks the presence of the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, so it would be best if we could postpone and come in competent to tell us what criteria they have used. Because I repeat, there was no reason for the University Clinical Center to get, in Tuzla, so much less funds than those in Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka, and not to talk about this thing now and this thing that Prodanović was talking about, that some of you didn't get at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3249	Thank you very much. We have another correction to the wrong quote, colleague Bradar.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3250	I thank the president. So I have a correction to the wrong quote, this document needs to be read whole. First of all, thank you, once again, to all health workers who carried out the load of the widows in the way they carried it out and saved all of us the lives that we had the opportunity to participate and meet with the covid. What you didn't, a colleague, probably see here is that 61% of the 10 million was paid to the Federation, 37 at the expense of Republika Srpska. Health care and therefore commendation to the Council of Ministers for all, almost all of its reservations just directed to these hospitals. What I know is that, I think this is, I don't know, and this may be my contribution to our debate, that, that these hospitals that are numbered here, at least as far as the Federation is concerned, are, they're the founder of the Federation Government, I'm sure the government of the Federation is from their means, I'm absolutely sure of it, I helped 56 all of them and one hospital that had a covid department during the pandemic. So we don't have all the information here about help, here, all the health care facilities, we can look for it another way, but what the Council of Ministers did, it did it on purpose. And here I regret you correcting in the quote, let's say, at the University Hospital in Mostar, although you don't experience at all, you treat people from central Bosnia, Mostar, Livna, all the way to the flat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3251	Thank you. A colleague, Bećirović, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3252	Mrs. Bradara and you confirmed what I was talking about, which is that we don't have full information, we have no explanation of what the criteria were. What you were talking about at the beginning as much as it was assigned to one, as far as the other entity, I wasn't talking about, I've been very specific about some things. And I'm not controversial, I repeat, that part of the funds has been allocated to the Clinical Center in Banja Luka and Sarajevo and Mostar, I'm just saying, I'm just looking for an explanation why so much less for Tuzla University Clinical Center, which by the number of patients, by all the other gauges maybe the largest in the country and I can't get that answer, I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3253	My kolegica Bradar, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3254	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3255	You're giving up, thank you very much. We've exhausted the debate with this, and we've exhausted these repairs of the wrong allegations, of business corrections, and we're closing the debate now. We have two proposals, counterpart Bećirović, first proposal – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH finds that the allocation and use of the funds of the current reserve has been allocated for the recovery of economic damages for period I. - XII.2020. years of injustice to the University Clinical Center of Tuzla. Please initiate voting procedure for this conclusion. Thank you very much. Attending 13 - 5 for, 7 v, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority. I'm finding the first conclusion hasn't passed. Bećirović's second conclusion was – The House of People asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to correct the injustice against the Tuzla University Clinical Centre in a way that no later than three months after the adoption of these conclusions approved funds from the Tuzla University Clinical Cintar budget reserves of two million marks. 57 Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 11 - for 4.7 v, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 versus 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I'm also finding this conclusion didn't get the necessary majority. We are launching a voting procedure on the Information on the allocation and use of funds of current reserves allocated for the recovery of economic damages for period I. - XII.2020. A year. Please initiate voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3256	We're getting the hang of it. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3257	This information is being received or not received, right? Thank you. Attending 13 - for 8.4 v, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 against. We have a general, entity majority. I establish the Information on the allocation and use of the funds of the current reserves allocated for the recovery of economic damages for period I. - XII.2020. The year has been accepted into knowledge. Thank you very much. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3264	Thank you very much, President, I'll try to be brief, since we're already feeling... and how this is going to end. [[no microphone turned on]] So, for almost half a year, and I really meant that in terms of the savings that should be made in the budget, and given again some of the other needs that we had at that point, especially this initiative, I think it's justifiable now and perhaps more relevant than half a year ago. So the initiative applied, conditionally speaking, to two parts. The first part was that I asked the Council of Ministers, since it solves the issue by decision, means by its legal act, to simply change the Instructions on the scope and manner of carrying out physical and technical security tasks in a way that reduces the number of persons currently particularly protected at the state level and to reduce that number to eight persons. So, to three members of the presidency, two home presidents, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Court and the Attorney General. In my opinion, I really am, I believe that the current BiH Police Force Coordination Directorate has a shortcut to 60 jobs, given that none of these people who are scheduled by the Manual are at risk, and that there are procedures when it comes to the SIPA and the co-ordination of the police forces to give each person, including them that kind of protection. And the second part was that all of these attributes, which enjoy, above all, delegates and deputies in both homes, as well as individual elected and appointed persons, since either I or I had the opportunity to hear here claims that the issue of our salaries is a constitutional category and that it cannot be changed, given that we have a series of powers that delegates, envoys and deputies in both homes enjoy, I have asked simply to abolish everyone, and to save money, to abolish the funds for representation both internally and externally. There are particularly interesting members of the College of Both Homes, so either them or you six, which in that sense, is whether, on an annual level, they have six thousand or six thousand marks which for the external, which for the internal team. I also asked that when it comes to the rule on the use of the phone in the Parliamentary Assembly, to abolish the right to pay mobile phone bills to everyone, does everyone have a good enough or high salary from us and I really don't see any need since we have one number of social networks where calls are free, and each of us, as far as I know, has this common PTT phone, so if there's a need for someone to call can do it from the office. When it comes also, although it is already in one intention or intended part of the delegates from the House of Representatives suggested it, I also asked for everyone to be abolished and I think that really next to the salary that is mostly in our possession of about 4.5 thousand or 4.5 thousand marks, there is no need for us to take another 700 marks and I think we could reroute that money, here, to solve the issue of our civil servants and tenants, simply to pour it over to those categories of employees of the Parliamentary Assembly who, for whom we don't have any sufficient money when it comes to wages. And the last proposal in point 2 referred to the Regulation on the use of official vehicles, I have a lot of information that a good portion of the official vehicles used in the Parliamentary Assembly are used for private purposes. Journalists, especially these investigative ones, find people who have the right to use a sound vehicle for 24 hours and ministers, and Bog and some delegates to do private jobs with these vehicles, and let's do what people say, the devil took a joke, come on what they use, they use with themselves, whether, water and cabinet members, police officers, imagine how much money is spent on fuel alone, not to talk about diaries, paying for the accommodations of these people, etc. However, since that first part of the request, when we discussed it on the committee responsible, means, Constitutionally, there was a vote 3:3.1, so there were some interested people who thought there was room to revise the way individuals were insured. And to this second vote in the Administrative Commission was, unfortunately, 7:1, meaning, against what it says enough about the consciousness of our delegates, the MPs, as they finally see that question. At that same session, I was present, it's interesting that besides that, here, the question I've already mentioned, I don't mind in the legal sense that people enjoy the rights to that so-called. severance. But I think that this question really needs to be solved in a better way in the coming period, including these famous jubilee awards and some other privileges we enjoy completely unwarrantedly, given that from time to time we don't get to work for seven months, and we actually use all these privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3265	Thank you. We're opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the debate. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. 61 We vote on the delegation initiative of counterpart Miletić. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 4, versus 8, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – 3 for, 4 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against. There's no general majority. I find the delegation initiative of counterpart Miletić has not been adopted. Thank you very much. Moving to final point, 26th item of the agenda, Ad. 26. Ambassador's initiative Zlatko Miletić, number: 02-50-6-2219/21 of 22. 12. 2021 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the House of the Peoples, the commission did not support the delegation's initiative. I give my word to my colleague, Čolak, if there's any need. No, thank you very much. I give the word to the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3267	Thank you very much, President. Here's what I'm really going to try to be brief, so what's the content of this initiative, and what's the motive for actually proposing this at the House of Peoples session? Given the results achieved by our little girl Lana Pudar, and yet given that a girl at only 15 years of age won third place in the world when it comes to, whether, swimming, the one who follows that sport is obviously she perhaps at this point and most talented in the world child in the context of these results. Here we have from the coup, I think, the situation in the river has also won first place. So my intention was simply fair in terms, it's the only one of those medal winners and when it comes to senior segments and juniors, that a kid from his town goes and works out in another town. So, the essence of this initiative was that in any way we could help the children of the City of Mostar, of all nationalities, it was simply to build an Olympic pool so that she and the other children who were talented could actually show their abilities. I don't want to talk too much about the details, I just want to say the following thing, that when it comes to the opinion of the committee, or the commission that discussed this issue, I disagree entirely with it, given the fact that it's the Civilian Ministry's competent office, which I was looking at in the '20 report. year, supported directly, which through the IPA project, dozens of projects in BiH, including that sport character, and I cannot understand that we in any way cannot provide even symbolic help to these children to achieve the conditions, whether, for sports. Even here in this initiative I have proposed if there is not enough money in the budget, conditionally speaking, if something is not left in the budget when it comes to the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, can we see if there is a possibility that the competent ministry will open the number of phones to help build the facility. However, there is obviously not enough political will for either. I'm familiar with the fact that the Federation government, meanwhile, has made a decision, if I'm not mistaken, in the amount of 8 million to help this project, but regardless, I thought that 62, first of all, state institutions should in any way help our talented children. Today it may be about little Lana Pudar, the other day it was about this Đurić's Đurić who solved the 40-year-old mathematical problem in Banja Luka. So, we have these very talented children, and we wouldn't fall off our heads to help them in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-24-0.u3268	Thank you. Here, as you said, the Federation has taken action, among other things, and around the project, as well as the county government, as well as the City of Mostar, so that, with the Olympic pool within the University of Mostar, we build another one, because I think the city needs it. I don't see the debate. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't see any discussion. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We are voting on a fellow envoy's initiative, Miletić. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 4, versus 8, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 versus 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find the delegation initiative of counterpart Miletić has not been adopted. This concludes the 21st session, you will later be informed of the date of the next session. Thank you very much. Session completed 14:32 p.m.
