ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11024	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I am opening the 27th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, an anthem. Once again, I warmly welcome all present representatives and distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] From the BiH Council of Ministers' Office, Mr Zoran Tegeltija has been notified that due to earlier commitments he will not be able to attend today's House of Representatives session. BiH Civilian Minister Ankica Gudeljević also delivered a notice that due to earlier commitments he will not be able to attend this session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The absence was justified by MPs at the moment: Mirsad Kukić, Darijana Filipović and Šemsudin Mehmedović. At this point, 29 MPs attend the session, so I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Saša Magazinović, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Mirko Šarović, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Nenad Nešić, BiH Foreign Minister Nermin Nikšić, BiH Council Chairman Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Minister of Communications and Transport and Damir Arnaut, BiH Foreign Minister. These announcements were made in accordance with Rule 168 (2) of the Rules of Procedure by the Chair of the Council of Ministers and to the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. Once again, I would like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, and in accordance with Rule 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11025	I thank the chairman. Unfortunately, two key, two key persons in the Council of Ministers to address the problem of legalising cannabis for medical purposes, chaired by Tegeltija and Minister Gudeljević, are not at the session, and therefore I will only explain what I wanted to ask them, and I will do the same at the next session. 2 So in May last year, therefore, it will be a year since I had a meeting with the chairman of the tegeltija on the subject of the legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes, it is one of the meetings that gave me the hope that this process would accelerate and in some ways it is. The chairman of Tegeltija called for an emergency meeting of the Council of Ministers, which he appointed as a missing member of the Commission for the Control and Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, which plays a very important role in amending the law. But apart from that appointment, nothing happened in the last year. It is ministrica Gudeljević who should call for a constitutional session of this Commission, that the Commission should propose amendments to the law and we should adopt them. It is not clear to me at all why such an important topic, therefore, is the legalization of cannabis for medical purposes, around which there is a general political consensus standing for such a long time and I am quick to ask the chairman and to use it, not to say the abuse of television transmission that he promises to launch these processes, because I know it is not his direct responsibility, the minister should lead this process, but he is the captain of the team, he is the head of the Council of Ministers, and he can't, I can't really ask anyone else's question. So I explained what the question is, uh, obviously I'm not going to get an answer today, and I'm going to repeat it until the cannabis is legalized.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11026	Thank you. Let's move on, we're giving counsel Mirko Šarović. Here you go. Mr. Šarović is not present right now. The next representative who is... he intends to ask the oral question is Nenad Nešić. Is he present? It's not. I give my word to Agent Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11027	I thank Mr. Chairman and welcome all present. And my parliamentary question today concerns the Sberbanka's trade agreement in BiH. In fact, we are witnessing that because of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and economic sanctions, which were imposed by, I would say, never more unique international community that the banking sector was owned or related to the Russian Federation. And I must say immediately that it is commendable that our authorities have reacted to protect clients and protect financial flows in BiH at all. We were able to learn from the media how the entity banking agencies took over Sberbank BiH, BiH's BiH offices on 27 February 2022. The same way we learned that on March 1st, ASA Bank bought Sberbank BiH in the Federation, and on March 2nd, Nova Bank owned by MG Mind from Mrkonjic City bought Sberbanka Banja Luka. At the very beginning, I would like to point out unequivocally that I fully support the access of entity banking agencies, which are heading towards strengthening the domestic banking sector. Of course, this does not in any way mean that I support the complete absence of transparency and possible illegalities that could have arisen from such an express procedure. I would like to point out clearly that today the objective of my questions is actually to shed light on what this is about, to come up with an answer that will help us remove any doubt from this process or to determine what really happened and therefore to ask a few questions to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, entity governments and banking agencies, of course I will deliver all these questions in writing and expect answers. My wish, therefore, is to shed light on a complete procedure that has so far been wrapped with very secret and thus casts doubt on the purchase contract. I'm also aware of the limited powers of the 3 Council of Ministers and I don't expect them to give me any answers today at all, but I'd like them to be involved, and to request and get full information, they might be easier to do than others. Of course, the key issue I delivered in writing concerns entity governments and, as well as entity banking agencies. The first thing I ask them to do is let me know who made the sale decision and who was paid the money from that contract? So I expect that, yes, yes, to give these answers, and then I would specifically separate and want them to answer me, I'm asking for full information on what process and how did they get to the buyer, and why was it so urgent when both agencies took over the management of these banks? In particular, I want a response from the Federal Government and the Banking Agency whether the Union Bank was in the option at all as a majority bank owned by the Federation of BiH, if it is why it was eliminated, if it wasn't in the option, and which was achieved by the purchase price? I'm particularly interested in having the Federal Government and Banking Agency answer me whether it's true that on the day, just the day after the sale Asa Banka sold bonds to the Federation, part or entire amount owned by Sberbanka, and that one part of these bonds was purchased by the Union Bank, which was mostly owned by the Federation? [[representative is warned on time]] If that is true, whether that amount is approximated by the amount of the price ASA Bank paid to buy Sberbank? [[representative is warned on time]] It's reportedly worth 14.5 million and 15 million, which would practically mean that Sberganka was bought with her own money invested in federal bonds. When there was already a sale why the government did not ask the Union Bank to buy Sberbank as a bank in its majority ownership and so practically for the amount of 14.5 million it allegedly paid for part of the bond, it became the owner of all All 50 million Federation bonds, how much is owned by Sberbank? [[representative is warned on time]] So I expect precise answers, and I don't accept the answer they gave some media and journalists, who were asking themselves, that this is the attitude of the international community, the diplomatic crust, I'm not going to speak out of courtesy. who is concerned and correct about these people, because no matter who asked for it, they have no right to ask us for any... [[representative is warned on time]] So, thanks for the tolerance, and the written questions are gone and I expect answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11028	Thank you. Since the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not here and there is no representative of him, does anyone in front of the Council of Ministers want to answer these questions? No, no one. We move on, I give my word to the honourable representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11029	Thank you, Chairman, and I welcome all present. And as Saša said, I'm going to use the presence of journalists and direct transmission to ask my parliamentary question, I don't think the Minister of Transport and Communications is here, but here I see that there's a deputy, so I hope I get an answer to the question. Namely, I do not have the custom to present individual and personal problems to this House, but given the complete lack of empathy towards a common man and disrespect for decisions, means, the Council of Ministers by the Ministers, I feel the need to raise my parliamentary question here. 4 Namely, our fellow citizen Zineta Altumbabić has been fighting for her labour rights for 20 years, and in this struggle, the Constitutional Court ruled that the process she is leading is over, and it is about returning to work, since she was working in flight control at Tuzla Airport. She also addressed the Commission for Human Rights, the Joint Commission for Human Rights, which concluded that, therefore, it tasked the Council of Ministers to resolve its problem, and only the Council of Ministers has, therefore, adopted an act saying it is in charge of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to prepare and submit reports to the Council of Ministers on the basis of an analysis of the court decisions and recommendations made by the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution and on a proposal to resolve the working-law status of the representative. This act dates back to 31.03.2021, so this is almost a year. Therefore, there is no debate or dilemma on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's rulings, and the Constitutional Court's rulings must be carried out. The chairman of the Council of Ministers has already been fined up to 500 marks for failing to implement the Constitutional Court ruling. The Attorney General has, of course, been involved in the process and the Attorney General's Office rather than insisting on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's rulings is being placed on the scale of the dispute and It was concluded that Mr. Tegelti was re-observed whether it was acted upon by the Constitutional Court under the threat of the next sentence. [[Advocacy is warned on time]] I did not get an answer to my parliamentary question that I had delivered on 9.11.2021 and therefore I am asking this oral parliamentary question, unless I am answered today, of course, by written reply.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11030	Thank you. Does anyone outside the Council of Ministers want to answer this question? There's no one here. We move on, you'll probably get an answer in writing. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11031	Thank you, Chairman. The issue is addressed to the foreign minister, if I do not get an answer, I retain the right to continue to comment. In December 2021, the foreign minister at the press conference, which she then held in the Russian Federation with the country's foreign minister, Sergej Lavrov, told a number of Russian, bh and foreign journalists, quotes - I view today's talks as a major contribution to improving relations and supporting the stabilisation of opportunities in our region and finally in my country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are grateful to Mr. Lavrov for his visionaryism, for his understanding of the situation, for his enormous knowledge, and I must say that you are a happy country with such a foreign minister. The end of the quote, Bisera Turković. Taking into account the fact that the Embassy of the Russian Federation published on its official website last week an official record of telephone conversations between Mr Lavrov and a member of the Presidency of Mr Milorad Dodik, which quoted the razmijeniti as saying, I quote – Opinions on the implementation of the agreements made following the meeting of Vladimir Putin and Milorad Dodik in Moscow in December 2021. So, the same month that Mrs. 5 Turković made this statement at the press conference. Continuing quote – Steps have been drawn to intensify efforts in this direction. Given that both the press conference and these talks in Moscow took place in the same month, I was looking for the minister's answer – what exactly did she mean when she said Lavrov was responsible for stabilising opportunities in our region and especially in BiH, what did she mean when she said that this man had visionary, understanding of the situation, great knowledge, and what did she mean when she said that Russia was a happy country with such a foreign minister? I say again, if I don't get an answer, I keep the right to comment on that fact for one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11032	Okay, thank you to all the MPs who asked the question. I don't see anyone outside the Council of Ministers reporting that this answer, therefore, is likely to have the right to repeat these questions. Representative Arnaut commenting on the fact that no one has to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11033	Thank you, Chairman. So I figure the foreign minister only showed up here when she was appointed to that special session, and then she left early. So, in the same month, in December 2021, in which Putin and Dodik reached an apparently extra-institutional agreement in mid-Russia, Mrs. Turković again praised Lavrov in the middle of Russia for stabilising opportunities in the region and especially in BiH. She praised him for the visionation, understanding of the situation, great knowledge and more to Russia said that the happy country with the foreign minister, whom the former foreign minister, now living in the United States, Kozirev said, was quoting him – to take good care of his back in Lavrov's vicinity. You would think that this is naivety, ignorance, but given that Mrs. Turković is on the Internet in front of the commission when she named it that BiH's NATO membership will require a referendum, I'm afraid there's something much more serious and dangerous at work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11034	Thank you. Moving on, moving on to the agenda. Prior to that information that has been modified – Point 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Criminal Law, Proposer: Representative Denis Zvizdić, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Since the Constitutional Commission did not support the principles of the bill. And it is added to the agenda – Point 6. MPs' request: Nikola Lovrinović, Borjana Krišto, Predrag Kožul, Darijana Filipović and Mije Matanović to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions under emergency procedure and in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. 6 I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Predrag Kojović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11035	I thank the chairman. On the basis of Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives on behalf of the Club Our Party – Independent Block, SDP, counterparts Emirć and Chairman Zvizdić I propose new agenda points with the relevant material attached as follows: 1. Continuing the procedure concerning the draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in BiH institutions, issue: 01-02-1-393/21 of 7. Seven. In 2021, in accordance with Articles 85, 86 and 133. Rules of Procedure. 2. Continuing the procedure concerning the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, issue: 01,02-02-1-2100/21 of 19. 11. In 2021, in a scale with members 85, 86 and 112 of this Rules of Procedure. 3. The conclusion reads: "The House of Representatives asks the House of Peoples to adopt the Bill on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in BiH Institutions and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council by means of an urgent procedure, and to end the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement." And under 4. The conclusion reads: "The House of Representatives informs the European Union Delegation in BiH that the House of Representatives adopted a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in BiH institutions and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, after adopting the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, that it forwarded them to the House of Peoples with a request for urgent treatment, and asks the European Union institution to approve BiH's candidate status for membership in the European Union." Reason: In May 2019, the European Commission adopted a Opinion on BiH's application for membership in the European Union, which said that negotiations for BiH's accession to the European Union could only be opened after BiH thoroughly improved its legislative and institutional framework, and thus specified 14 key priorities primarily related to democratic standards and the rule of law. Among these 14 priorities are the three laws for which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is responsible – Public Procurement Act, the Law on VSTV, and the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Top EU officials, European officials stressed that the adoption of the three laws would be, I quote -- visible progress, end of quotes, in the field of meeting 14 priorities, and that this would lead to a certain approval of candidate status. This attitude hasn't changed in the meantime. Despite clear benefits for all BiH citizens who would have passed any of these laws, however, have not yet been adopted. If it is not adopted soon, the next opportunity will be only one year after the general election results are implemented. With this in mind, there are all the conditions for the procedure to end today on two of those laws. The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has already been adopted in a regular procedure in this House, has passed all the commission phases, is fully in line with European standards, and has been assessed positively by the EU Delegations, the OSCE Mission, and Transparency International. After being stopped in the House of Peoples, the promoters again submitted an identical proposal by emergency procedure. I remind you that this proposal contains all amendments previously agreed on by the Constitutional Commission and the House itself. and proposed by the SDA, SNSD and HDZ among other things. [[representative is warned on time]] It remains for 7 today to be declared an emergency procedure in the second round, and the law will be adopted immediately after an emergency procedure. The VSTV law has been proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, the proposal is not ideal, there is a lot of shortages, but it is the lowest possible minimum acceptable for the European Union delegation. It also contains a provision that within a year the need to adopt a brand-new VSTV Act. [[representative is warned on time]] The House's investigative committee is fully capable of calling upon a new bill within that time limit. It remains to be stated about this law in the second round, after which we should follow Article 112(4) without reconsideration in the competent commission, and adopt the law immediately today in a second reading. As far as the conclusions are concerned, I am finishing here, thank you, we should ask these laws to be adopted by emergency procedure in the House of Peoples, and that the procedure of the Law on Public Abuses, which has been there for several months at the same time, be completed. There is no reason why these laws that I have spoken of are not adopted and that, on this basis, they are justified, after we have completed a certain task, they require BiH's candidate status in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11036	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirko Šarovič, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11037	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present MPs and members of the College, on behalf of the Club SDS – PDP – DNS, I would like to propose an emergency procedure to extend the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on value added tax. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] A little closer to the microphone, now it's okay, it is. So based on Articles 71, 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly as an authorised proposing I propose a proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax with an explanation in written and electronic form to consider and adopt at the 27th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, on the basis of Article 133. I ask the Rules of Procedure to consider the bill by means of an urgent legislative procedure, given that it is a matter of high-level urgency. And here's to this argument, and in some of the times I have to say that, already in the draft agenda, there's a similar proposal to amending and supplementing the law, but we think that, from the club, it's a law that has a lot of inadequacy and our proposal is, in our opinion, a proposal that, which is better and better, and we want to introduce it to the honourable Members, and it does, I'm going to take advantage of now, of a few things. 8 First, it means, in Article 23. basic law - reduced rate. At a reduced VAT rate of 5%, compared to the bill proposed by the law here on the agenda, the transport of goods and services and imports of goods is taxed, and those medicinal products are auxiliary, medicinal products and healthcare aids placed on the market in accordance with the rules on their placing on the market. Bread obtained from all kinds of flour, all kinds of milk, edible oils and edible fats, salt, sugar, food without concentrate, seeds and fruit material. Article 23b. Higher rate. At the rate of 22% of this proposal, it is the law to tax at this rate high-quality wines and alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and cigarillos, luxury perfumes, clothing and footwear from furs and leather reptiles, jewelry and related products, watches and parts thereof, top electric or optical appliances, luxury vehicles for the transport of the face to the ground, in the air or on the water, works of art, pyrotechnic articles for fireworks, cigarette lighters, luxury sinks, weapons. And here's a chance to take advantage of it and say that the reason for law-making exists in order to improve the economic situation of the socially endangered categories of population, especially in the conditions of increased prices due to global inflation and market disturbances, we propose that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Principles on which the bill was based, so an account was kept when this law was drawn up, financial resources for law enforcement. I would also like to stress that according to the analyses carried out, the reduction in VAT rates from 17% to 5% will result in a loss of VAT revenue of around 130 million converting marks, assuming that the base remains unchanged. Since prices will inevitably rise in the coming period and raise the VAT base, wage growth and pensions envisioned during 2022. So, yes, the Honorable Chairman, let me say, we think that this is a better bill than this proposed one, and we think there's a reason to put it in the emergency procedure for this session and the basic characteristics of this proposal I said, and I would take the opportunity, of course, to deliver this proposal to the competent service with a certified signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11039	Thank you. Of course, the proposal should be submitted to be shared with representatives in the hall, as well as the proposal proposed by Mr Kojović. We don't have any more reports, here's until the proposal is printed, it'll probably take about ten minutes, so we'll take a short break of 10 minutes to wait for the proposals to be shared to clubs and representatives. [[PAUZA]] We'll begin in a minute, please the representatives to take their seats. All right, well, respected MPs and MPs, we're going on with our work. We have proposals to supplement the agenda, and we will declare them as they are and proposed by the distinguished representatives. 9 So, first we declare the proposal read by Mr Kojović, therefore, on the basis of Article 71. _________(?) Not everyone's here. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11043	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, I welcome you and the members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, all present in the hall. So, we at the HDZ Club didn't just avoid voting because we needed more time, although we didn't inform you about it, we didn't really have any time, but before we go, so today we're working on the agenda and here's this point of the Book, I have to say on behalf of the Club that we think this is the second time, Mr. Chairman, that you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. For the first time, you violated it when you scheduled a session without a agenda and continued to work, and in the session itself we pleaded on the agenda, and this time, therefore, you ignored the Institute of Reports of the College, therefore, on points that did not pass in the first round of voting. Today you have, therefore, placed it in the agenda of agendas that do not have a statement from the Colleges. So you rule out an institution that's scheduled for the Rules of Procedure, I don't know what to call it. You, here, so I'm saying we didn't obstruct that we didn't come, we wanted to say it, but it was a short time, we were caught up with this, but you as chairman at least had to consult with the College whether it was possible or not. So, you ruled out the Institute of Opinions, if you already wanted it You have, Mr. Chairman, one 15 opinions that awaited, why didn't you put it all on the agenda today, why did you just put it, so it doesn't matter what he didn't propose, so if he suggested to vote on it, then, then he should today all those points that await the second round of voting put on the agenda. I don't know what this is all about, we're just doing something, we're just moving something, we're moving, we're doing something like people in the Rules of Procedure, you're breaking it first, and you're letting it happen, I'd like to hear your explanation for it. True Bog, this is the first point of the agenda, but here's how everything went just wasn't the time to react to this. I'm protesting on behalf of the club so we won't accept future work, just so you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11044	Thank you. Of course, as usual, when it comes to me, you are completely wrong and even one-way, so as not to say maliciously targeted and informed. So, with regard to the alignment, I acted exactly in accordance with Articles 85 and 86. The Rules of Procedure, which were not attended by members of the College, failed to ensure agreement within three days of the vote, and that the second round in principle allowed the second round to continue voting. But right now we are at a point called – adoption of the minutes from the 26th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. If you have anything to say about this to Mr. Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11045	That's what you're saying, therefore, that you've done according to the article... what your colleagues in the College say, I'd like them to hear, so I, I, let us hear, so, have you consulted with the kolegij that this is how you called the session, that I know, but there are no reports, is that no longer a report should be in future work, as other members of the College or do you interpret it yourself, if that's the case, I don't have any more words. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11046	Thank you. So, we don't have any zapisnik of the 26th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in written form were asked by MPs: Magazinović asked 16 questions, Damir Arnaut addressed the initiative to the College, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic asked four questions and asked for an emergency to deliver answers, Nikola Lovrinović asked two questions and Borjana Krišto asked one question. The following answers were submitted to today's session: seven answers were submitted to Damir Arnaut's question, Aida Baručija's question was delivered two answers, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić's question was delivered, Saša Magazinović's question was two answers, and a single answer was submitted to the question by distinguished counterpart Borjana Krišto. Do any of the esteemed MPs have any comments on the answers they have received? Dear Representative Magazinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11048	It's an important session I won't, I won't owe it just one sentence. When anyone in this country mentions the threat of a nation to take and look at my question to Minister Gudeljević about the number of employees in this mandate and everything will be clear to him, there is all the data.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11049	Thank you. Dear representative, colleague Borjana Krišto, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11050	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, all present at the session, members of the Council of Ministers, I warmly welcome you all. My parliamentary question was addressed to the Federal Police Administration, and it was related to the national structure of selected candidates in the Public Competition for Employment at the Federal Police Administration with the initial acts of "police officer" and "younger inspector", as well as to the overall national structure of police officers employed in the Federal Police Administration. Here, there couldn't have been, uh, a better moment, even to add to this, uh, which, in the introduction to this issue, also made by colleague Magazinović. 14 The Law on Police Officers in the Federation Article 4 provides that the structure of police officers in a police body reflects the national structure of employees according to the '91 census. A year. So if we look at the composition of the Federation population on the '91 census. in the Federation there were 52.34% Bošnjak, 21.85% Hrvat, 17.58% Srbin and the rest of the structure were those who did not plead as members of one of the constituent people. In response to the question that I have actually received the national structure of the selected candidates, the following is: - For the rank of police officer on the total number of 80 selected, 85% is Bošnjak or in figure 68; 12.5% are Hrvat or 10; 1.25% Srbin or one and 1.25% of others or one. - For the rank of a junior inspector of 8 selected, 62.5% is Bošnjak or 5; 12.5% are Hrvat or one and 25% are Srbin or two. As for the national structures of employees, the overall national structures, meaning police officers at the Federal Police Administration, the structure is as follows: - 69.34 are Bošnjači, according to the response; 17.03 Hrvat; 9.42 Srbin and 4.01 remain. When comparing the national structure of selected candidates, as well as the national structure of those employed in the Federation with the national structure of the Federation's population according to the '91 census. Of course, it is clear and visible that it does not reflect the structure that should reflect how the Police Administration Act defines it. It is also clear that according to the current structure of the Federation, we have four times more Bošnjak than Hrvat. I would like to quote this example, here, and because of what was just before, and also because we can often read it in the media or hear from Bosniak political representatives that Hrvat in BiH institutions, and even at the federal level there are much more than they belong to, we also did not have a number of times in these media areas of Hrvat trying to portray themselves as some kind of usurper, I would say, these resources. The numbers clearly indicate who, if we can speak, is the usurper of certain positions. In view of the fact that the names of the one I received, names and last name were not actually given names but were not published on the basis of a public tender, only the candidates' codes were published, and given that the opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which stated that the publication of the final list on the advertising board with the names and last names of candidates proposed for employment in the Federal Administration was not contrary to either the principle of justice or the legality set out in Article 4. The law. I am taking the right to give myself an additional parliamentary question, which is what I want to publicly say here, to ask for both the names and last names of the selected candidates in this public competition, so let's really see what this national structure is used for and who it is to abuse for the purpose of taking certain positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11051	Thank you to your esteemed colleague. We don't have any more comments to comment on the answers received. Moving to agenda number three, Ad. 3. The request of representatives Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać and Jakov Galić to consider the bill on the ban on the use of genocide concepts by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-195/22 of 4. 2. 2022 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Dear Representative Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11053	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests. Let me explain the emergency request, it may take a little while longer, but let me. So, before you there is a bill on banning the abuse of the concept of genocide, which is proposed by emergency procedure because it meets the necessary conditions laid down in Article 133. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, because it is formulated in a simple way that we believe can be considered and fully considered and adopted in a single reading. Whatever anyone thinks, imagine, insinuate or construct I want to point out that behind this proposal is essentially a good intention, an attempt to calm tension and revitalise internal dialogue. This Fair Law is not only a good intention for us from the SNSD and Serbian Club MPs' Club, here at the House of Representatives, which we are his formal proposings, but also from the citizens of Republika Srpska expressed through the work of their highest representative body of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, which, in its conclusion, adopted on 01 February 2022, obliged us to propose this law to you and us right here in the Parliamentary Assembly. We sincerely want to, and we also want to show this law, that the problems in this country begin to be solved, one on the right, and two in the right way, and that would mean the issues that burden us daily and bring trust, and many of them unfortunately have accumulated in this country and in a way that we do so in accordance with the Constitution on the basic principles on which this country is based and which should function and, of course, on the basis of the prescribed procedures. Out of the opportunity and desire, clearly and concretely expressed in action to work in this way, manifested through the adoption of this proposal, we believe that the process of resolving many important and burdensome issues in BiH can be started, which certainly includes the continuation of work in the greater capacity of our representatives from Republika Srpska at the level of common bodies, and in the interest of all in BiH. I will remind you and the public that our way of expressing a political stance, which implies and implies refraining from making decisions in certain conclusions of the National Assembly, has just been a defined way and is a reaction to an action contrary to what the Constitution and its own procedures have ordered. We hope so, that's how we do it, and we're sure, that that's how the anti-constitutional type of action will end for the sake of the good and the future of this country. In public, but amongst us MPs, there was a question – why didn't we go to the addition of the Criminal Law? The answer may be simple, but he, you all know very well, goes into the essence of our problems and relationships, and you all know him well. If we had gone on an amendment to the Criminal Code, you probably wouldn't have seen this text today in this room, because it would have been very likely, almost certainly, rejected at some technical stage of processing in the legislative sector, because we wouldn't and we wouldn't have listed some members of the official messengers that some again think should and should be listed. And we believe that, and you all know very well, that these famous numbers of official messengers should not be listed for simple, but in fact, essential reasons, because no one in this country has, nor should they have the right to pass laws other than those who are chosen in the name of the people and the citizens of this country to do so, i.e. our MPs in the legislative bodies at different levels. 16 However, regardless of the Criminal Law, with or without any amendments and additions, we believe that this subject deserves to be processed through one of these special laws. We all know, and we don't need to mention it in particular, and we don't need to go back to the fact that our past is burdened by difficult and tragic events that, in any case, affect our behaviors in everyday life. And of course we're all aware of the numerous and difficult victims on all sides, but given the past, and currently different approaches, upheavals, ideas, etc. We feel that we must look for solutions that will calm the public and increase understanding. And in the end, I would ask all of you colleagues and colleagues, who may not have come to this session with a predicated attitude to this Law, if there are any at all, and I hope that there is, for a moment imagine that this bill is written perhaps in Latin, that there are no signatories, that it may have been submitted in some other period of time and some quieter general ambience and that they try to treat it and treat it with this imaginary position. Please, once again, try to see this whole idea separately, not the author and not the politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11054	Thank you. Dear representative Lepić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11055	I would correct here the false allegations of a colleague who said that their absence at the session was caused by the counter-constitutional action of the High Representative and that it was their political position. We all know that the Office of the High Representative is set out in the Dayton Peace Agreement, it is known exactly and what part, and the Constitution of BiH is also part of the Dayton Peace Agreement, so, therefore, it does not stand. In particular, I do not think that the work of the High Representative has anything to do with the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that, therefore, their political position was only an excuse not to come to this Parliament, and I would like that political position to include, and that they do not then take money from citizens during which they have not worked. It's kind of going through this discussion again a little bit, I think, blackmail, because if we don't accept something this way, or if we accept it, they'll work if it doesn't work again. But here I wouldn't go further into content or law, not since we're discussing emergency procedures here, and I especially don't think this law meets the emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11056	Thank you. Dear representative Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11057	Dear Sir, Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, I really don't know how it occurred to you to insinuate what I am, what my conviction is, and what is the reason for our action. You have had the opportunity and you have the opportunity to give political speeches in different ways, but really insinuate our views and the reasons for action or expression of political attitude, let you really not have the right as an MP. On what's all, I've said nicely that everything that's SNSD, and we repeat, in continuity together with coalition partners, that our behavior is conditioned by 17 anti-constitutional actions, there are more, and we can talk about it for days, but I'm really little and I'm amazed that you're giving yourself the right to respect our beliefs and our ways or our reasons for doing something or not doing it. I understand that you have taken the opportunity to say something even more for a minute or so, but once again, I ask all my colleagues to at least refrain, if nothing has the right to express their political views to the extent... until it falls to some Democrats like these fellow Democrats, such Democrats obviously come to respect other people's ways of thinking, acting, forming and expressing their views.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11058	Thank you. Dear Representative Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11059	Not much into the essence, this is what if this law gets the green light to be discussed about it, to be discussed essentially, just a few short thesis. It is problematic with this law to go by principle take or leave because not letting everyone participate in the creation of the text of this law you automatically remain without significant support. Or the option was for MPs from other political parties to participate in proposing this law, because there is essentially a good will for different forms of hate speech in BiH to stop. I'm sure you offered Mr. Osmanović, for example, who said several times in the media, here come with the text so that we can talk about it, as we said in the SDP, as the chairman in several media acts specifically emphasized and said that people, let's talk, let's put on paper everything that is problematic to anyone in the BiH state, so that we can talk about it, then maybe it could be the law in the emergency procedure. This is by chance or on purpose some formulations that are absolutely unacceptable, which in public, I think, were first spoken by my colleague Zvizdić, specifically mentioning this formulation of "the idea of genocide". Then when you put on or leave for the idea of genocide, what's the idea of genocide, then leave it. The second thing, you've proposed a separate law, this was supposed to be an addition to the Criminal Law. If, for example, we were to propose measures or laws relating to traffic safety, that would mean that we would have a special law on belting, a law on banning the use of cell phones, a law on long lights, a law on vehicle correctness, a law on banning going through red, so what would our legislation be like if we were to propose for all special laws. I understand that it is a problem for you to suggest the addition of the Criminal Law where it is a place of this law, of course in a different text, because you should recognise the INC's law on the denial of genocide, but it is completely wrong and wrong message sends that everyone should then propose a special law for something he would like to propose in Criminal Law. So, creating legal uncertainty by stamping a huge number of laws that need to be part of a single law is also unacceptable. And finally about the essence, where there are also unacceptable elements, um, I'm not going to talk about it now, because we're talking about whether or not it's urgent, but these are some elements that make an emergency procedure unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11060	The word has the chairman, Zvizdić, please. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11061	Thank you very much, once again, I welcome all present representatives and MPs. I must immediately say that to me personally it doesn't matter what letter this law is written on, but it's actually the essence of content, so to be this law and I'm going to say why I think it's an unacceptable emergency procedure, and it's unacceptable because of the content of the law itself, so I'm going to say why the content of this law itself is unacceptable. I also think in my opinion the bill that we should consider today is actually a continuation of denying the convicted crime of genocide in BiH, because genocide in BiH has been committed, it has been internationally ruled and it is an undeniable fact. I therefore strongly reject any compromise and, of course, attempt to be neutral in defining the concept of genocide, because there is no and there must be no unilateral or political interpretation of the concept of genocide and therefore there is no idea of the representation of genocide. The idea mentioned in Article 3 of this bill is, in my opinion, a classic example of the minimisation of genocide crimes, because international law, as well as legal theory, knows no idea of genocide. Genocid is the biggest war crime that has its definition, has its characteristics, has its sanctions, which is almost always the most severe sanction that exists in international law. The Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide, which we have signed and ratified as a BiH State, defines genocide as the intention of total or partial destruction of one national, ethnic, racial or religious group through the killings of members of the group, a serious violation of the physical or mental integrity of members of the group, intentional submission of a group of living conditions that should lead to its complete or partial destruction, measures aimed at preventing birth within the group and the forced transfer of children from one group to another. So, as we see genocide is a very clearly defined crime, but it's actually just one aspect of the legal theory of genocide. There is a legal practice that regulates the crime of genocide through special court cases and therefore allow me to read as a matter of fact a copy of the verdict from which it will be quite clear why neither an emergency procedure should be accepted nor a law with such a text should be adopted at all. In the ruling, Mladić Tribunal states -- the Council finds that the accused had the intention to eliminate Bosnian musliman from Srebrenica by killing men and boys, and by forcing women, children and parts of older men to commit genocide, persecution, extermination, murder and inhumane acts of forced relocation, the Council found that the only reasonable conclusion was that the defendant intended to destroy Bosnian musliman from Srebrenica as a significant part of the protected musliman group in BiH. Therefore, a genocide took place in Bosnia in theory and practice, and it is very important that we all read the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of the Genocide, the UN tribunal's verdict to understand what it is. The genocide in Srebrenica was at the same time proven beyond any reasonable doubt as to what the greater standard of proof is right. So, it's... it's a fact, so I firmly believe and responsibly argue that this legal text is actually a new denial of genocide, and in some ways an insult to all victims. It's actually the tenth stage of genocide, and that's the denial phase. I think this law is just the tenth stage of genocide, because it is trying to reduce the established facts and judgments of international courts, trying to cover up the truth, and it is a very, very dangerous intention, it simply cannot go through in a democratic society like BiH, in some autocratic society, perhaps it is possible. I would also add that lately we have the eleventh stage of genocide, which is the glorification of genocide. So if we don't stop this tenth phase, who's going to give the kids an example and explain that someone must never happen again to decide to kill more than eight thousand men and boys because of their name, their faith and their ethnicity? 19 Also muralized war criminals, shooting at returnees, desecrating religious objects, are all elements that can be defined as potential glorification of genocide crimes. In order for that not to happen, we need to set an example for young people and all future generations to tell the final truth, to admit what happened and to go towards catharsis, and after that, to reconcile and increase trust. As our good mothers of Srebrenica and Žepa say, it will not bring back our loved ones, but it will be such a satisfaction. According to this, this law would be the tenth and eleventh stages of genocide, therefore, denial and glorification of genocide. I suggest we go to the first stage of collective and individual catharsis of the people and finally admit the truth, call things a real name, not give some kind of philosophical qualifications and abstract qualifications about some idea of genocide. Believe me, it's a real and huge insult to all the victims. That's why I invite you to consider this exposure not as a political stance, but as a struggle for truth and justice, as a struggle for international law, as a respect for the victims of genocide in Srebrenica, because the responsibility for crimes is always individual, not collective, that, I never had any dilemma. However, as one great German philosopher says, I quote - of the four types of responsibility only political responsibility is collective, and that is the responsibility to which in a political sense we should condemn all those who have committed crimes as members of our people, because if we glorify those who have committed crimes on our behalf, then we are also defacto accomplices in crime and we and only then have collective responsibility. So I suggest that we actually go to those solutions that will relax relationships, raise the level of trust to a higher level and allow us to keep going on and on and on with confidence processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11062	Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11063	I support and agree with the discussions of my predecessors, first because of the fact that this is, therefore, given as a lex specialis, and we know which law lays down criminal sanctions, it's only a krivični law, and of course we can't touch the essence here anyway because it's not clearly defined here what is considered abuse and I think that with such formulations, therefore, there would be arbitrary interpretation and selective application. I hoped that colleagues would offer the law, their version of the law on the ban on the denial of genocide, since they do not recognise and say it seems that the anti-constitutional action of the High Representative, therefore, is not recognised by the proposed law, or, therefore, established and published by the High Representative, so we would really have a chance to discuss here and eventually find a common solution. But I do consider this a kind of insolence, to be offered a law that, beware, prohibits the abuse of the concept of genocide, and we have not passed a law that prohibits the denial of genocide. In order to ban the abuse of concepts, I guess we should first establish a law that prohibits even the denial of genocide, which has not been done in this House so far, and then we should talk about some other things. I will read here the Opinion of the Association of Victims and Witnesses of genocide, therefore, the Association of the Movement of the "Mother Enclaves of Srebrenica and Žepa“, which I think are the most called upon to give their opinion on this law and they say that the proposal for a law on the prohibition of abuse is a concept of genocide itself to attempt to abuse the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crime of Genocide, they call on representatives in the BiH Parliament to reject that proposal, stress that they amend and supplement BiH's criminal law, which has brought a high representative in BiH unequivocally edit this area and provide protection for each individual and so on the collectiveity. The aim of the amendment of the law was to remove the publicly declared responsibility of the people and to clearly highlight the responsibility of 20 individuals or groups who joined together to commit crimes. Amendments to the Criminal Law, imposed by former BiH High Representative Valentin Izcko in July 2021, states that the law is in force as provided for in Article 2 on a provisional basis until the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts it in the same form, without amendments and without additional conditions. So, they call on Parliament to urgently adopt the said law, because without the adoption of the law, any debate in the Parliament on the subject of denial or abuse of the word genocide, let alone the adoption of some other laws that treat the genocide committed in BiH. I think this is all said and there's nothing to add here.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11064	Thank you. Honorable representative Čolo, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11065	Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues are discussing the procedure, the emergency procedure, but I can see that you are all entering the measure of the law, and I will allow myself the right to enter the metrics, because the metrics also depend on our determination of the procedure of this law. I also believe that prescribing a crime in a special law is not good in the direction of preserving the legal certainty and the BiH rule of law, because crimes should be found in criminal law, and in special laws only exceptional. I think this crime, as prescribed, is quite vaguely prescribing disposition, i.e. The crime scene is about abuse of the concept of genocide, and in the very disposition of the crime, it's about the idea of genocide. As Mr. Zvizdić said, I also do not know the idea of genocide, I know the crime of genocide and the very institute of genocide that is so precise in the UN Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide, which Mr. Zvizdić read. I think this criminal act violates the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights, which speaks of freedom of expression. Freedom of expression may be limited, but only by law in a clear and unequivocal way, which is done here, but is not done in a clear and unequivocal manner because the formulation of a criminal offence is inaccurate and leaves room for arbitration in the application of this law by those who will apply this law, which are judges and prosecutors at the state level. In order to limit this fundamental freedom specified in Article 10. European conventions must be necessary in a democratic society and therefore there must be an objective and reasonable justification. I don't see here any objective or reasonable justification for such a definition of a crime and I don't see it necessary in a democratic society. The removal of genocide from public discourse is not necessary in a democratic society, on the contrary, what has been established by the judicial verdicts of international courts must be used in a democratic society and no one can be prohibited from freely interpreting the views that have been made in the judgments of international courts. What Mr. Zvizdić just quoted from Ratko Mladić's verdict, it would, in the future, be a criminal offence if this were to be adopted. So no one should quote, say something contained in the judgments of international courts, judicial courts, and believe me, I can't support this legally, because I don't think it's legally justified to prescribe a criminal act like this, which is contrary to Article 10. European Conventions. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11066	Thank you. Dear Representative Stevandić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11067	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this is a certain topic that we will not agree on even if we adopt this law or some other law, as we do not agree on the imposed law that the High Representative tried to impose, and he is in Republika Srpska declared invalid, so this is not a subject that we can seek some kind of consent, but is a topic that we can carry out some kind of desecration, a topic in which we can calm down, especially in such a difficult time, passion and insult, and that will be an identical setting for each individual and every nation. And I think that for the first time, every nation and every single individual has been treated completely equally, and don't think that there's anything wrong to say about Jasenovac and anything, it can't, we'd close one species to this, to say, this, the sphere of mutual accusation, the rise of tension, passion and the exploitation of tragedies, to say, and maybe a political, and maybe someone, to say, extrapolitical, which is equally evil or worse, the spectrum in which the peoples still, to say, divided, anyone can, uh, anything that honors him, and that was the intention of this text that was proposed by the SNSD Club and the Serbian Club. Without prejudice to anyone's personal feelings, I must tell you that now if I were to call in Banja Luka the genocide of some commanders who publicly say that Srbin should kill you in this area where I was born and where my Bogoljub Stevandić, who was killed, and Anđelko Stevandić, who was shot with a sniper, that if I were to talk to those people open on TV about it, it doesn't matter, because... if I called them genocide I would now be sentenced to some punishment in Republika Srpska... because that law was adopted in Republika Srpska. I don't mean to do it, and that law wasn't passed and I wasn't dealing with it, we're all wearing our eyes, our traumas, but we're wearing some obligation if we want to live together, either side by side, not to give up the lowest possible passions. When we had problems with Inc's law enforcement, we, as some colleagues said at the beginning, did not go into scale and never discuss the very measure of the law but the way the law was passed. You all know that the Venice Commission has also said that the laws are passed by competent bodies, they are parliaments, not individuals, and that we are not in the Middle Ages, but that we are in the 21st century. You also know that we have had the opportunity to propose from, colleagues and Serbian MPs from Republika Srpska, that we propose INC's law here in a similar way as today, as an extraordinary item of the agenda, to bring it down by entity vote and completely destroy it and banalise it, that we have laws that we entityally disputed, and it has in the Official Messenger. But we thought that it might be some further escalation, so, as we say, once again count to ten, so we went to something where it's nice, and you all read it, I believe, regardless of the interpretations, who speaks or writes otherwise, make publicly available texts, images or any other representation of the idea of genocide, disdaining or exposing to the public rose of BiH, Republika Srpska, Federation of BiH, the Brcko District, etc. etc. as well as a group of faces and group members who have their own belongings based on the color of the skin, the nation... What is anti-bossan, anti-Serbian, anti-Croatian here, what is disputed that anyone using the word genocide will disrupt international relations, offend someone, call someone, uh, genocide? Well, I guess it's a deescalation. We can't bring, we can't, we're people we can't change The Hague tribunal's verdicts, it's a matter of history now. When she was a colleague, Čolo called for Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights, we cannot say that 22 will be limited from one side to the other. The Federation lawyers, not to name, have said they have a problem with the law cannot defend their, uh, what is called, defenders if they are Srbin. Is there more discrimination? So this isn't a matter that's easy to understand, I don't want to encourage some difficult debate, I don't want anyone to realize that I'm provoking anyone, I absolutely have a pite for all the victims, wherever they are, wherever they are, I have an understanding of the historical context of all the judgments that have been made, and I also want those that haven't been made and I have, of course, my own personal and political attitude that I won't impose and where I'm willing to take a step back, but that you understand that we are fully equal in this text, we treat every individual, ethnic group, people and everything else. Quite the opposite of how we're referring to whether individuals are guilty, but we're targeting entire nations. I don't think we've done anything that, as someone said here, is rude, nothing that is hypocritical and that we haven't done anyone any harm or insult. We here, gentlemen, are not going to agree on historical specifics in the future, not only from the last war in BiH, but perhaps also from World War I and World War II, and it is very easy to use any, let's say, opinion or data to target and limit our possibility of a common future. I know that between the two villages there are different opinions, if through one, I don't know, a stream passes, and the other there are a lot of forests, so there are regions in BiH, and cantons, and the Federation, and Republika Srpska have a number of differences that are not just, let's say, geographically it's not only ethnic, it's not only national and religious, but there are differences in thinking, differences in perception, and I don't think that they should be tickets to some future trenches. I refuse to participate in this in the sense that we are doing ourselves evil again and going through what we've been going through, and here we had the chance the other day to bleed here, so we avoided it on Ukraine's issues, where surely we're not deciding anything, and whatever it is we're doing is going to get fuel and it's going to be much worse for us. I think that if we pretend that even in this difficult time, we have some common orientations in the future regarding peace, development and respect, that you will understand this text. Of course, even if you understand it and don't accept it, we will understand it, but what I ask you not to respect our intention to do anything inhuman, incorrect or rude, but that this is intended exclusively for the possibility of a common future where no one will be targeted, no one will be offended and no one will be... nor will any judgment be abused to target the entire peoples. Had it not been for the stories and public stages of various officials, not to mention that I would not have caused any controversy, surely that we might have waited a little while with this, but you see any future disturbance of whatever happens and out of BiH here is beginning to stir up, say, this impatience and brings us back into a position to use and abuse everything that everyone, which is available to anyone politically, uh, disqualify, national insult, or to honestly hit the foundations of what we in Republika Srpska consider our own, our future and our freedom, which is Republika Srpska and its right to work together with the Federation, the Brcko District, that together with three peoples and two entities participate in the future not as an object to which someone determines something, but as a subject who together respects what is possible and works together. So, I understand the criticism, but I repeat to you once again, that behind this is the most honorable and noble intention regarding desecration and mutual respect, and of course we all declare ourselves that no people are guilty, but in real life it's very different. I'm sure this is a contribution that in real life we have that all people are equal, all nations are equal can't be discriminated or targetd this way. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11068	Thank you. Nermin Nikšić, non-compliance with the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11069	Well, Mr. Chairman, let's just see if we're discussing the essence or the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11070	Here, I'm sorry, you're right. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11071	I mean, not just you, it's not just about, so I also intend to discuss it, but... we know what the subject is.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11072	We are discussing the urgency of the procedure, and I will pray and the next
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11073	... and then let's stick to it, not everyone, everything we've heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11074	...discussants to look back on, I, why they think it's important to adopt an emergency procedure. Representative Nešić, please have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11075	I thank the chairman. If you could just a few colleagues, I have a few questions for the legislator of this law and I'd like to be answered if that's possible. Is the SNSD's proposal unforced by the law imposed by Valentin Incko? As we know, Valentina Incka's law is still in force. Have you agreed with your partners from the SDA and HDZ to support this law, or is this law, or is it just an alibi for you to return to BiH institutions? Republika Srpska's National Assembly has already adopted amendments to the Penal Code, which criminalises Republika Srpska. I can tell you from here that I will vote in favour of this law, that this law is not disputed to me, but I find your intentions controversial. I can conclude from the discussion that you did not provide support for BiH Federation MPs. I ask the question – what will you do after that? Obviously, this bill serves you only to return to BiH institutions, to justify your being here today and to manipulate the people again in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11076	Thank you. 24 And the honourable representative of Osmanović's discussion, and then we go to the vote on an emergency procedure request, and we have Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11077	So I'm joining here to discuss my colleague Nermin Nikšić, if we, if it just means a debate about an emergency procedure, then there will be a debate. Okay, I'll just say a few things then. Dear colleagues and colleagues of this Law on the ban on abuse of the concept of genocide by emergency procedure, for seven months you have not come to this Parliament, it has been quite enough time to propose this through regular procedure, to conduct discussions here, discussions, certain amendments, and indeed we do not see any reason for you to do so in this way. The order of moves that is generally known when it comes to the laws passed by the High Representative, which is that first in the same text should adopt one and the other home and then we can approach the amendment and supplement it. But here, you've decided on this procedure, so we'll see how and in which direction it all goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11078	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11079	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, first of all, I'm obliged to, here, take our position, first of all, on the urgency of the law procedure that has been proposed, but here are a few sentences, despite the fact that I'm probably going to take part in what some colleagues are and protested that it's not going to be measured, it's just maybe impossible. In fact, all the colleagues who talked and the law that was imposed on this bill, I think, spoke to me in a way that we here in Parliament are the ones who re-judge those, crimes or genocide. So the court ruled, and whatever you're telling me here, whatever the law on stories and impressions on judgments is doesn't mean anything, so the court was appropriate and decided on what it decided and who it refers to. So I'd like to avoid it if we're here to re-judge what the court has already ruled. So, the court judges by the law of criminality, some colleagues have spoken or by the laws of war crimes, and it has ruled, so I don't know why, uh, now we're creating a name here as if we're going to annul the court's decision that already ruled out, so there's nothing of it. The other thing, one of the colleagues already said, therefore, that a similar finding exists in the part of BiH, it is in Republika Srpska, now I don't know what it means, so now you can cross over, even if we don't bring this to me today, move to another city and be prosecuted there by something that's being said, here, in this proposed law. And the third most important, most important, therefore, the thing that I wanted to talk about is that I agree that this could have gone into amendments to the Penal Code and I agree that perhaps some of the words in it are not clear enough, such as "idea", which is the word "idea". But I want to respect what my colleague Bursać said first and foremost, and what some colleagues have said, that they want to create a situation in which we can return to the normal work that we need and how we need as bread dried in this House in the situation in which we are. So, this law 25 doesn't make anything, nor does it touch the law imposed, so you're obviously, you see the provisions. If that's true, if colleagues need a certain understanding, if their colleagues need it, I've been saying it five, six months ago, some help from us from the Federation, I'm in favour of supporting her, so, really, as she told no one, she doesn't bring anyone into a special position. It seems to me if this is an act of something that will lead us to a normal work of this Parliament, therefore, and nothing changes what I have already said at the beginning of the judgment of the courts, but that is how our behaviour in this topic is arranged, I am therefore to support and to make it, if it really means it, and so it is said as far as I understand it here. If that's not the case, and if we don't understand it, if we understand it quite dramatically, how Mr. Zvizdić said it, and if there is now an academic debate here about the concept of genocide, about who did it, how he did it, so the court has said everything and I don't see that we need that kind of debate here today. With all due respect to the victims of that, everything that happened and the court's verdict, I don't need any law at all, and I never abused it, and I hope I never will. I don't hope so, I'll never abuse it. I don't need to comment on it. So in this context, I suggest that if we have strength, we need normal work, we need a good relationship as much as possible, we need, therefore, a correct relationship between us, if that's what it is, then I don't see any reason not to support it, if it's something else, then I have no words, so just let it be what it has to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11080	Dear representative Lepić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11081	I, my correction of the wrong allegation refers to the finding of my colleague Lovrinović that the thing here is that we will again judge something. When it comes to genocide, it is undeniable that judgments by international courts have been reached, but the problem lies that no politician from Republika Srpska has ever recognised the rulings of the international court, except, of course, Milorad Dodik a few years ago, but here we are witnessing that he has changed his mind. So that's what this is about, first thing to do is to pee and say that it is, the greatest achievement was to say that a terrible crime was committed by some politicians from Republika Srpska and so that's the fundamental difference. We are talking about abuse of concept, and we are not talking about whether the genocide committed is recognised by colleagues from Republika Srpska. So that's what correcting my wrong quote is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11082	Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11083	Well, I won't answer any more, so if anyone calls back, even if he insults me, I won't answer for this again. So, obviously you don't understand me, does that mean that if I don't admit that the verdict isn't valid, then the verdict of the one who's convicted is that he knows where he's going to be and where he's got the place to do it and who made it. Whether I or you or I don't know one of us in one of our own vocabulary or someone's thinking, it's just like that, it doesn't bind anyone, it doesn't bind anyone, the court has reached a verdict and it has to be carried out and executed. That's what I'm talking about, so 26 of this is just a problem between us, creating a problem of further cooperation, working, trying to do something, I don't know, so I just don't think we understand each other, but here we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11084	Okay, thank you. Let's stick to it, let's focus on the agenda, shall we, we're now discussing an emergency procedure request. zastupnica Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11085	Well, I'd like to refer a little bit to what Mr. Lovrinović said if we don't admit the verdict. I would like to remind a little of the UN resolution on state responsibility for violations of international humanitarian law and violations of international imperial norms, these South norms, the crime of genocide is a violation of the imperial norms of international law. The recognition of the crime of genocide is the obligation of the state, all states are obliged to recognise something that has been found to have been committed in the judgments of international courts. So, confession is not something I want or will not admit the crime of genocide, recognition is a commitment stemming from UN resolutions. So, to admit the crime of genocide and what else stems from this responsibility of the state apologized to the victims, and that is the obligation of the state to apologize to the victims for the committed crime of genocide. We don't know if we'll ever see someone apologize for the genocide committed, but we have to admit it, and it's an international standard, what it says in judgments is necessary and has to admit.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11086	Thank you. Dear Representative Softić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11087	Mr. Chairman and esteemed colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. I had no intention of talking about this subject, but as my colleague Stevandić said, I counted not to ten but to 100, trying, therefore, to leave out my discussion on this difficult subject, but here after this count I feel the need to say something. First of all, I want to say that I don't mind any colleagues who don't stick to the agenda, because we are talking about the urgency of the procedure, this, since we have a need to hear the real reasons why this law is put into practice, which are the essential reasons why the promoter has initiated to propose this to us today and after hearing all these reasons and explanations about this current law, I think that fellow Nešić is the most correct one, because somehow the fact that, after eight or nine months, we are sitting here for the first time in full, and that probably those who have boycotted the work of this high house needed an entry topic in order to discuss it here in this place, without talking about the reasons or what led to this Parliament being in one difficult and long-term crisis. counterpart Nešić said he needed this topic to justify his coming to Parliament's session, I listened to the reasons and everything that was said about the desecration of the situation in BiH and this famous count of up to ten, etc. And I really can't help but think that this topic is put before us today just to sort of justify a return to these parliamentary benches. You know, if we were living in some neutral Switzerland, we'd probably have made sense of what we're talking about today, and we could, therefore, figure out a long and wide-ranging idea of genocide and 27 of the very essence and everything that this law is about, but I personally think that the Proposer has chosen the fastest possible theme to return to this House, because if we were living in Switzerland, we could talk about the idea of genocide, but we live in a country where genocide happened, so 8372 names and names died in genocide that was established by the International Criminal Court. We, therefore, do not have today's debate, neither the law of ambition nor the annulment of judgments, nor the relativization of them, but I really think that this is the extra burden to be pushed back into these parliamentary benches and before us to decide on it, because if there really is a good intention for desecration, I think it is best to avoid this topic and not talk about it. I was present as the vice president of the club at a session where he was a respected member of the College, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, where both Mr Kojović and Mr Magazinović begged him not to make this law a lex specialis but to enter the Criminal Law and to express their willingness to support such a solution that would be within the scope of what we are talking about today. It's probably given up because the outcome of all of this is known in advance. The second thing, the very essence of the law that has been offered to us cannot, of course, deny any international judgments, but it can lead us to a certain kind of dilemma whether this means that tomorrow if we call upon the International Court of Justice in The Hague and we find that these 8372 people died in genocide, does this mean that we can come under these criminal sanctions. It's from this text that's proposed to me really vaguely. So, we live in a country where genocide is burned, we live in a country where this genocide has been established by international judgments, and I would really like to ask the proponent to withdraw this law so that we can continue working on those topics that are vital to the citizens of BiH today, and about our history, about these topics, which are really difficult, which are painful for all of us, it would be best that we don't talk here in parliamentary benches for a while, but that the courts and those who are responsible for it decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11088	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Nada Mladina, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11089	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Our club president has expressed the position of the Social Democratic Party Club and I, of course, agree with everything he has put forward, but if we are talking about whether any of the proposals will go by emergency procedure, first of all, I am not in favour of this proposal going by emergency procedure. Secondly, I am not in favour and absolutely not in favour of the issue and the idea of genocide, and the particularly committed genocide in BiH is making any concession in order to, behold, colleagues return, which is me, I am glad that they have returned to the institution they belong to and in which we are obliged to be present and to talk together. This bill, proposed today by emergency procedure, can, in my opinion, be just one of the parts of the law on the ban on the denial of genocide that we will bring together in this Parliamentary Assembly, simply by no means different. I wouldn't explain it further, it's clear to all of us, so we need to understand that genocide has been committed, we need to be aware that it's not a collective responsibility, but it will be collective responsibility if the perpetrators of war crimes continue to be glorified and the law of banning genocide is not respected. If Switzerland has it, why not bring it to Parliament, this state BiH? Only then can we talk no, don't talk we'll always talk, but together 28 we need and it's a shame that so far it hasn't been done, but it had to be imposed in Criminal Law by a high representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11090	Thank you very much. There are no more reported, now we will, there will be a distinguished representative Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11091	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's a few just, a lot of incorrect formulations have been made, I'll try it for a while. First, we never left the Parliamentary Assembly, nor have we got anywhere to go, but, as I said in my opening address, we have defined and redefined our decision based on the conclusions of the National Assembly, and so we will do both in the future and in this context and in the conclusion of the National Assembly, it is, among other things, proposed this text. As for this philosophical mile that some have been called upon and tried to bring this formulation into that context, I would also ask myself here publicly, if indeed from some imaginary world here many come and pretend that they have never heard that some entity here is called genocide, that some residents, and from the most political level, are called genocides, etc. So I wonder if we really live in the same reality. As far as you're concerned, even though the text of the law, I hope, I'll have a chance to talk about concrete solutions today, as far as this wording is concerned, I don't know if you've also noticed in public that there's nothing called genocide here, whatever you think we're referring to scientific, scientific data, court practice or so, don't you think it's going one way to devaluation it all. So, this is exactly the term "idea" completely consciously used here, out of all possible definitions of that concept I chose the following: that it is a mental idea based on real, but sometimes on imaginary facts, but the law tends to prohibit abuse of concept. So I ask you, here, whatever the statement of urgency is now, to read the text again, because I noticed that many of you are completely in another context thinking and drawing conclusions on this whole thing. So here I will still use this few seconds to ask for a break before the plea, because the club is not complete, and the application is Mr. Radmanović's, uh, prior to the plea, and I, of course, use it on behalf of the club to seek a break before the emergency statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11092	Sure, we'll also hear the correction of the wrong quote by Agent Arnaut, and then we'll agree on maybe a little longer break that you can use for lunch or your obligations, etc. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11093	Thank you, Chairman. Correction of the wrong allegation to Ms. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać from her first discussion, when she said they did not propose this as an amendment to the Criminal Law because they did not want to quote the Official Journal in which the high representative's decision was imposed. Now I don't know, uh, about consistency. So, Mr Lazar SNSD's Prodanović SNSD, Mrs Krišto of HDZ and Mr Hazim Rančić of the SDA in the past term of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposed a bill on amendments to and additions to the BiH Election Law and quoted neatly in the proposal for a law "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 11/06, which has been imposed by a high representative by the BiH Electoral Law, through a case-by-case play of smooth amendments and additions to the law. Now, I don't understand, I think, if your colleague, together with your coalition partners HDZ and the SDA in the last meeting, was willing to quote in the proposal of the law "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 11/06 What is now the change of opinion if it is only about how the law is passed and not about the content of Inck's law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11094	All right, let's make a deal with the esteemed MPs, club presidents, it's 14:50, so ten to three, is it okay if we meet here at fifteen to four, to use this as a break for any need, lunch, etc. So, I'll see you here at 3:45. [[PAUZA]] I ask MPs and MPs to register. We'll start in a few minutes. We have a quorum, I suggest we get started. Let me ask Mr. Đonlagić to take his place, please. All right, let's get back to work. We have reached the point where we need to declare an emergency procedure request in relation to point 3, the request of representatives Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać and Jakov Galić to consider the proposal for a law on the prohibition of the use of the concept of genocide by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-195/22 of 4. 2. 2022. I'm asking the MPs to come forward with a request for an emergency procedure. So, out of the 31st for 31st, there are no objections and abstentions. We have a general and entity majority. Therefore, a requirement for the law to be considered by emergency procedure has been adopted. We can reopen the debate if anyone wants to. Just to get back on screen. Since most of the MPs in the debate on the emergency procedure already had their own discussions in some way, I do not expect a large number of people reported, but here we have, the distinguished representative Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać and Mr Osmanović. Novakovic-Bursac, discussion. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11096	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests. I will say a few more words specifically about the content of the law, and I hope that I will remove a little dilemma or explain to you what I said in my first address, that really behind this proposal, that there is only a good intention and a desire for at least one of the topics to be properly, which is being opened to us in public, to be properly regulated. So, before you, there is a law that aims, as his name tells him, to legally regulate the abuse of the term genocide and everything that can come out of this abuse, in terms of fostering hatred and impatience directed towards any group or territorial whole. Who wants to be a little objective and a little fair to himself but also to other peoples I don't think he can, because there's no reason to be against this law if he really reads it carefully and understands it correctly. We know and we do not have the ambition to solve all the problems in this country with this proposal, but it certainly aims, among other things, to avoid the freedom of opinion or the possession of attitudes on a matter, to prevent and, if necessary, punish the abuse of the concept of genocide because we believe that the extent of abuse is the concept of genocide in BiH, as long as denial or any other crime has an individual location and little though, we must admit, the narrow reach of negative action. This law, which has been carefully read, does not offer any definition or is determined by it precisely what genocide is, and what is not, or what is not, or should not be qualified, but exclusively intends to prevent the abuse of the concept as such, regardless of whether or not anyone has an idea, or an idea because there have been disputes on that term based on scientific data, on judicial practice or anything else. We believe that all possible crimes, including genocide, should be dealt with by judges, prosecutors, lawyers and scientists, and each of them, as a representative of their profession, should be held accountable for their moral professional and scientific credibility and should not be prevented from doing so. There was a dilemma, so let me explain, the proposal has been very clearly defined which action is the subject of this law, so I will quote it - whoever is speaking or writing or otherwise making publicly available texts, images or any other representation of the idea of genocide demeaning or exposing to the public Rose of BiH, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District of BiH, as well as a group of persons or members of a group that is determined on the basis of race, skin colour, religion, origin, state, national or ethnicity. It is also clearly defined when this action is a criminal offence, therefore, when it is done in a way that could encourage violence or hatred and certainly that an appropriate punishment is provided. For a conditionality, citizens who do not perform a significant function, from 6 months to 5 years, but of course, and we are all aware, that encouraging violence and hatred is a necessary condition for the start of that act, which gives special weight when a public figure or politician does so because the consequences of such claims are far more extensive and more difficult, and for such persons a punishment of at least three years is foreseen. The proposal, you see for yourself, comes from the principle of individual responsibility, prevents the imposition and promotion of potential collective responsibility, prevents the potential stigmatisation of a group or any collectiveity. So this law prohibits the abuse of any historical event in a way that blames or insults the collectiveity or territorial integrity, which is, you'll all agree, and the civilization's position. It is important to stress, too, that by applying this law, no one is placed in a more favourable or subordinate position, not to mention certain historical periods or events, contexts, there is also no meaning about the nation or religion, unlike some attempts that have set a certain time point as if before, and even afterwards, the world did not exist. This law, too, is very important to emphasise, does not dispute or restrict freedom of opinion, expressions in court proceedings, scientific and professional discourses until the time when someone started to degrade 31 and impose the principle of collective responsibility. So this law doesn't deny anything, but it doesn't impose anything. This law seeks to depolitise the legal qualifications of an event, and assuming that some people are guilty of a crime, this law prevents individual responsibility from being transformed into collective through public speech and action. I'm still going to say that there have been attempts to declare that this law wants to degrade or deny something and I feel the need to express my personal attitude towards all victims, especially some serious and monstrous crimes. If there were any better fates so that our territory is common and in our neighborhood, for our families, and I dare say, and by the Serbian people whom I belong to, there would probably not be some huge terrible events like those that happened in Srebrenica, but also those that happened in Bradina, in Sijekovec, in Ledici, etc. I don't want to, and I'm never going to let myself have a drink that I feel really personally in the depths of my soul and all of my being, and I don't want to have to drink to victims by building hatred or by anathemizing anyone else. I don't want to, either, and I'm threatening to abuse victims for political purposes and put them in the wrong context. The truth is, and we all know that some people have abused both their power and their positions and have done and have unfortunately done hard and terrible deeds toward other people. And no healthy man, I will dare say as a doctor, healthy mental or sanity, will minimize crimes, but I call on you that as far as we can and as much as we can and reason and feelings allow us to put everything that has happened to us and what is happening to us as far as possible in objective frameworks, to have a rational and objective approach to our past and to try to gather around some healthy and rational projects so that we really try to build a better framework of mutual understanding, respect and as a basis for making long-term better solutions, and of course these short-term life and everyday lives of all citizens in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11097	Thank you. Dear Representative Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11098	Thank you, Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members. Today's bill of law, which bears the name of the law banning the use of genocide, as my predecessors have already said, could in some way and understand that we did not have a period of 1992-1995 and that we are here today to discuss what genocide is, what is the concept of genocide, etc., but unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues who are proposing this law, in our country, BiH, at the verdict of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia founded by the United Nations, took place the greatest war crimes, the crime of genocide. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, proposing this law, in our country, BiH, in a smaller Bosnian-Herzegovina entity, in Podrinj, the city of Srebrenica, following the verdict of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, took place genocide. It's something we have to face. All your attempts to conduct a debate over the concepts of genocide cannot be taken seriously or has been sufficiently defined by this bill. This bill must determine whether the ban on the use of genocide in the case of holocausts or the ban on the use of genocide in the case of Ruanda, or the ban on the use of genocide in the case of Srebrenica. You have to accept the fact that we're talking about genocide today. You must accept the fact that the largest court in the world established by the United Nations is the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, in which the largest experts sat when it came to international law and made this decision. The sooner 32 you face that truth, the brighter our future will be. It is unacceptable, it is unacceptable that people from Republika Srpska's military and political life in the period 1992-1995 who were convicted of genocide are given names to student homes, streets, etc. It's something that's unacceptable to the entire civilization world. Since you've been running away from facts since 1992-95. I'll read a few things here. The first conviction in which the crimes in Srebrenica were characterised as genocide by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia took place back in 2001. In the case against former Republika Srpska Army General Radislav Krstić. He was first-degreed in 46 years in prison. That's the facts. The prison for genocide in Srebrenica was also sentenced to life sentences by Ljubiša Beara, former head of security of the Republika Srpska Army's Chief of Staff Zdravko Tolimir, former assistant commander of the Republika Srpska Army's General Staff, Vujadin Popović, head of security of the Drinski Corps of the Republika Srpska Army. In March 2019, a court in The Hague sentenced Radovan Karadžić, former Republika Srpska president for genocide and other crimes committed in BiH in the period 1992-1995. And the latest genocide verdict in Srebrenica before the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Courts in The Hague was passed on 1106.2021, against Ratko Mladić, the commander of the Republika Srpska Army. It is the fifth life sentence sentenced to the International Court of Genocide in Srebrenica. I will also remind the following, on the website of the Srebrenica Memorial Genocide in Srebrenica, through the verdict of criminal courts, has been cited by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for Crimes committed in Srebrenica, seven include verdicts for genocide. These are facts that need neither to escape nor to escape. They should be accepted, distanced from such politics and build a future for us and for generations to come afterwards. The denial of genocide must never be accepted because acceptance brings great suffering to the victims. Denial is the last stage of genocide that is often considered a second murder and that lasts for a long time, since a physical crime itself has been committed. When it comes to this bill, this bill is not a substitute for, as we say, Inc's law, but is actually directed against the implementation of this law. He effectively protects the entity Republika Srpska, a group of even individuals who can be accused in public or before the genocide court, responsible for genocide, and who we have seen there are plenty of them in both the military and political wartime entities Republika Srpska would become untouchable by applying this law, should not be called for what is an indisputable historical fact and this is not an honest bill proposal when it comes to genocide and punishment for all those who have committed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11099	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11100	Thank you. Honorable chairman, co-chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of MPs. Well, here, at the very beginning to say that I think this is one provocation for the Bosnian Herzegovina public, especially for the victims of genocide. In the introduction, the legislator of this law, or the representative who explained it, expressed itself completely incorrectly. She said several 33 false allegations that this was a last war, that it was a tragic conflict, that something had happened to us, that we had a fight. This was not, or, what, no tragic conflict, it was Mrs Bursać's aggression against the neighbouring state aided by domestic traitors to a sovereign, independent, internationally recognised state of BiH. In this aggression there were terrible crimes and there was genocide and one of the fellow MPs said – we will never agree. We have nothing to agree on, courts that are relevant, which are determined by the world's highest institutions such as the United Nations, have ruled that genocide has occurred in Srebrenica. You may disagree, but it's a fact, it's a state of action and watch now, completely wrong approach to forget genocide. So this law is nothing but a ban on speaking about genocide, a ban on talking about something that's been ruled out, and that's the wrong approach. I advise you to admit it was genocide. You know when there will be happiness in this country, when children are at school in Prijedor, Zvornik, Bijeljina, Visegrad, where a crime took place, when children there learn that a crime took place, that 3,000 Bošnjak and Hrvat were killed in Prijedor. It shouldn't be hidden from children. What kind of man would I be if you didn't admit that there was a crime in the Kazan? Only a crazy man or an immoral man can say that there was no crime in Grabovica, or in Ahmići, without talking about Prijedor, Visegrad, cities across BiH. When you admit it, when you say it publicly at a pay phone in this House, then we can talk about other things. You have gone completely the other way to protect what has been done dishonestly and unfairly. Therefore, of course, I will vote against this law and it is a shame for all those who have proposed this law and if it was an introduction, as counterpart Nešić said, or an excuse to return SNSD representatives to this Parliament to have an excuse for the electoral body in the smaller bh. I think it's dishonest to the entity, that it's unfair. There could have been some other excuse. To play with the concept of genocide that has been committed, which has been ruled, is the greatest shame of whoever suggested this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11101	Thank you. Nenad Nešić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11102	Chairman, I guess I'm an MP, not Nenad Nešić. Maybe you don't know which page you're on, and then you call us that.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11103	Here, you've got the word. Don't comment on me, I'm not the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11104	I'm asking you to represent me as you are, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11105	But don't make any further comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11106	You won't limit me to what I'm going to say. Mr. Zukan Helez, since you mentioned me, right here in plain and clear terms, I absolutely support this bill. One nation and its institutions of Republika Srpska cannot be called genocide, genocideists. Normally, I resented 34 SNSD colleagues how they suggested this and asked them not to make a play for the people here, especially the people of Republika Srpska. I'm glad you admit some crimes. And we in Republika Srpska don't deny any crimes, respect everyone's sacrifice, but we ask that our victim be respected as well. We cannot allow anyone in Republika Srpska, especially the people of Republika Srpska to call someone here genocide, and the institutions of Republika Srpska. And during the cove of the pandemic was well remembered by your statement when you said that we were supposed to get cruise missiles at the respirator's place. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He, Zukan Helez, said it. So much for your peaceful politics. We know who you meant when you talked about cruise missiles. You don't need a cruise rocket to East Sarajevo, and I haven't heard from you that you apologized for that statement, which is the least I expect. I'm a man who stands here for peace, for agreement and conversation. Three sides, each victim deserves respect no matter what nation he comes from, every tear is heavy and not to remind me of the chairman, this is what I end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11108	Dear representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11109	It's okay now. I only agree with my colleague Nešić in one way, that every victim is a victim, but I am correcting the wrong assumption where my colleague says we do not deny any crime. The crime of genocide in Republika Srpska is denied and denied by the highest officials of Republika Srpska. On the other hand, we hear there have been monstrous crimes, we hear x times to say terrible crimes, etc., no one has ever come across the mouth that it was a genocide, again I say except Milorad Dodik, but in the meantime he's changed his mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11110	Thank you. Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11111	Mr. Nešić, I have not heard in this House, at least in this assembly, that anyone has said that one nation, any, the whole people, is genocide or so on. If there's a statement out there somewhere, it's something else, but I'm really no MP here on either side, and I haven't heard it from any political option. So there's no need to make it up. As for genocide, Mr. Nešić, Ratko Mladić, commander of the Republika Srpska Army, was that called, sentenced to life imprisonment. Not that he played the marbles so he missed something there, meaning he killed, mass murder, persecution, rape, Radovan Karadžić, president of Republika Srpska, sentenced to life before the relevant court, so it's not Zukan or anyone in this courtroom, it's facts, it's facts. 35 And as for rockets, so I think at least 50 states of the world have cruise missiles, why wouldn't my country, BiH? It's not an atomic weapon, and it's an atomic weapon, and that's what countries have in the world. Yes, I'll repeat it 100 times, I wish my country had cruise missiles, that it had planes like Serbia and Croatia and that it had all the weapons like Serbia and Croatia. Finally, I repeat for the hundredth time in this House, in 1997, in Vienna the so-called Vienna Agreement signed by the sovereign independent states of Serbia, Croatia and BiH, a balance in arms. Today, there is no balance, Serbia and Croatia are arming each other, and BiH has a standstill in arms. We also know why and for whom and for whom I will use all my capacity, both human and intellectual and every other political, to ensure that my country is equally armed with Serbia and Croatia. And I repeat, I would be delighted if BiH had cruise missiles. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Of course, in BiH's history, it's never been an aggressor, we all know that, and they would serve only to defend And I repeat that for the thousandth time, we will never attack anyone, but we will never let anyone attack us. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here, now I read, two hours ago, a representative in the Republika Srpska Assembly re-announces aggression. If anything Bošnjak there, we will enter, we will defend the Serb people and there. That's how the speech was. And last time. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that would not have happened, BiH should be armed according to the 1997 Vienna Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11112	Thank you. Representative Nešić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11113	I thank the President. About your capacity and human Mr. Zukan Helez speaks enough of the BiH Court's verdict to present false evidence, although for the sake of the truth and for the media, I must say that it is not yet fair, it speaks of you. The BiH court thus ruled, and we will see if it will be judicial. As far as you're concerned, this is all about you and your policy. Today when gas costs $3600, when oil barrel is $126, when we don't have flour, when we don't have wheat, when we have an ongoing crisis in BiH, you're talking about some planes, tanks, cruise missiles. Unlike you, we from Republika Srpska have neither the desire nor the need to have rockets nor armored transporters or planes. We have a desire to develop our economy, to help our farmers get regressed fuel. I don't know if you listened to Serbian President Vučić last night when he said that with the help of the Serbian state's subsidies, he would maintain the price of fuel for farmers at a certain level. They won't let that price go up, so they can secure a normal crop. If you were a man of peace, reason, you would be here today talking to me about how to feed this people, if we take that Russia that is the largest exporter of wheat is under sanctions and probably won't be able to get the wheat out of there, that Ukraine that's fifth in the world after wheat exports. We need to talk today about how to feed this people. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And you're talking about planes and rockets and everything. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This speaks of you and your politics, Mr. Helez, and if I were you, I would have fun with this ruling by the BiH Court of Justice. Thank you. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 36
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11114	So, with the discussions we've moved away from the agenda, I remind you of item 3 of the request for, regarding the proposal for a law on the prohibition of abuse of the concepts of genocide, and I ask you to stick to the agenda. Any further deviation from the agenda to agree together, I will take away the word to the MP, so don't be angry when I do, if you really fully deviate from the topics that are on the agenda. Zukan Helez MP, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11115	So, Mr. Chairman, quite the correction of the wrong quote. The Court of BiH has not ruled, has nothing to do with it, so two people had a fight on the street, I was a witness and it is the Court of Municipal in Bugojn and it is a first-degree verdict. And as for my morals, which you were talking about, uh, the traits, I don't have like you, Nešić, building in Sarajevo, don't drag me into the ears of East Sarajevo criminals like you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11116	Let's get back to the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11117	There, I'm done, I'm back...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11118	Thank you. Don't continue this topic, if it's not about the genocide story, don't. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] But you can't because you've already had two corrections to the wrong assumption, the third is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And here I would really without a fence and sincerely want to believe in the good intentions of the promoter, and I'm not questioning it at all when we're talking about a concrete law. Of course, unfortunately, the path to hell is often paved by good intentions. I do not need this law, as my colleague Lovrinović said, because I have never abused or intended 37 abuses of what was happening in the past, but I also do not run away from it, I have always found and called things a real name, as I also called those facts that have been established by the International Court of Justice's judicial verdict. Here, when it suits us, then we call upon... a strong verdict, and when we have a judicial verdict, then we don't admit it. I want to very clearly underline... no moment and I never want to even it out and it's not about collective responsibility, it's not about accusing a nation, but the fact that the crime of genocide has been committed, there are those who are convicted and there are legally established facts and judicial judgments. I liked it, we liked it or anyone else here, so it's just that someone's gonna deny it won't change that fact. So, what a little bothers me is the fact that we're asked to accept well-meaning, and then we hear in the discussion that in Republika Srpska, an illegal decision has been taken that has been rejected by the Law on the ban on the denial of genocide, which is strange, which is illegal, because there is no legal force, but you are referring to it, and you are asking us to accept that, yes, well-meaning and therefore to determine ourselves. I would even have an understanding of the need to pass one of these laws if I had succeeded or if I had heard that there was an understanding and acceptance of facts, and a face-to-face with the truth by the promoters. And here's what I'm going to try to do. As a member of the Army of the Republic of BiH, I apologize to all those who have been committed by members of the Army for their crimes, for their losses, for the damage and for all the things that, human lives, have disappeared, that we do not now, not list anything. And no one in this room normally accuses anyone in this room of committing a crime, at least I didn't hear it, but why it's hard to accept and apologize for the crimes and genocide committed by members of the Republika Srpska Army or the joint criminal enterprise and the crimes committed by members of the HVO. Because when we accept it, when we face the truth, then we can turn to the future. I can't get away, a few days ago I sat down and commented on it on the Constitutional Legal Commission, only a few days ago we had a proposal from my colleague Zvizdić about introducing a crime into, and amending and supplementing the Criminal Law on Violence Violence Violence, the reputation of the BiH state, the flags... and we had a discussion, and no, the principles of the law are not supported because there are some people who say they don't like this state so perhaps they could answer. Here, uh, let me correct my colleagues if, in the light of this law, we protect the dignity of the state, the reputation of BiH, in order to prevent it. So, just to try to have certain principles and stick to, uh, the principle, with a really duty of pacifier to all the victims, therefore, no matter what the victims are called and no matter who committed a crime, that we should really start to truly face what happened in BiH, that after that, we leave this history behind, that we do not deal with it, and that we turn to solving the future that is happening, not only in BiH but also in the world, is not promising at all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11122	Thank you. I give my word to President Nenad Stevandić, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11123	Thank you very much. The point of the agenda was the law, the bill of law, but since the matter being processed cannot be easily reduced to that point of the agenda that it must go far, I completely understand that it reacts emotionally, but I don't understand that it causes any, to say, debate or hatred, and I don't understand it. For me personally, or if I'm talking about genocide then is Jasenovac and Stara Gradina, there have those tables, you know, eight hundred thousand, six thirty-eight thousand, 130 thousand, so that when you add up that number and there were all the ambassadors and the former and present, not the current, former high representatives, all the ambassadors and no one brought it into question, I have there, to say, uh, who to light a candle and from relatives, etc. Some of them ended up in Mathausen as members of the Liberation Movement. Me, if you're gonna talk about genocide, I'm gonna have to start with that. But since this law does not speak or speak of genocide in Srebrenica, neither in Jasenovac, nor in any other municipality, or in the region, in Europe or in the world, this law is the best intention that everyone is treated the same, that no one is mortgaged. This law does not talk about who will buy respirators, who is cruise rockets, this law does not speak about whether Republika Srpska is like this, whether we love BiH and this and this, whether it is a well-organised Federation, whether the Brcko District, this law does not talk about it, talks about equality in the treatment of all people, people, entities, and the Dayton Agreement in whose reading it must know that the previous war is not characterized as aggression, but as a tragic conflict. Dear colleagues in Republika Srpska have been passed a law in which I must not and anyone else call the Bosniak people an ugly name, BiH genocide, genocide, nor any canton, of course, Serbian, or Croatian people, and whoever does so will be sanctioned. In the Federation of BiH or if you prefer BiH, you can call any people you want ugly names, genocide, you can characterize them, characterise them in any ugly way related to the previous war, and you will not be punished. These are the systems that should be the same, and I ask you to separate it from the story of the victims, we're talking about whether we're mature enough not to burden each other, not to insult, and not to go back to what we disagree and where we've all been victims. If you take the percentage of every nation in relation to the number of people who have lost their lives or have been killed you will see that this percentage is also for Bošnjak, and for Hrvat, and for Srbin to vary to 0.7%. It is quite the same, but we do not argue that such a crime as happened in Srebrenica has not happened elsewhere, but it has happened differently, with other murderers and other victims and every municipality can present it and it is a new way of fighting, discussing, not being emotional, but also in this city where this Parliament is missing 150 thousand Srbin, according to what the late Slavuj, the camper from Silos, wrote, between 8.5 and 8 and 700,000 people are being led as missing in this city. And if we go into that bidding, into numbers, it won't get us anywhere, you'll stick to the UN tribunal's verdict, we'll stick to something else, and we'll fight senselessly and rhetorically, don't give Bog any other way, and the only solution is that we have equal and rational treatment. Then I can not mention my brothers when someone mentions theirs and say we have all problems and these are topics that we won't be able to agree on, it's quite clear. This isn't BiH from the '90s. For years and years in my class and everywhere they were monoethnic, let's say, communities, I hear my classmates today, no matter where they are, there were all nations. In my class and probably your children are monoethnic communities, everything is completely different, we have most monoethnic weddings, we have most monoethnic celebrations and birthdays, and our political views are tied to that structure of BiH that is no longer Leopard's skin, but come on, how, not offensive, but those cows that have half black, half white, etc. It's a time that requires our rational approach, so we don't get hurt again by taking advantage of any tragedy. And I don't want to convince you that I'm right, I just want to tell you that 49% of BiH territory or 100% of Republika Srpska territory thinks about it this way and if I should or any of my colleagues bring some fire or some ugly words, I'm ready for it, but I also know that 51% of the population on the other hand or a little less maybe territory is thinking or, including a couple of Croatian cantons, thinking like he said, I don't know, Mr. Helez. I appreciate that, and I am fully aware that I cannot change that, as you cannot change the perception and decisions made by Republika Srpska, and this cannot be helped either by a high representative, or by media hatred, it can only help each other if we treat each other equally, if we are not offended and if we do not use every emerging situation either with Ukraine or tomorrow by someone with China, anything, America, if 39 is not used for each other's calculations. We can so live people in peace, I'm interested in peace, I've been to war, I've been to a lot of funerals I've seen a lot of things, nothing good has happened to anyone, this is a hot time, this law is an attempt to desecrate and treat every single person and people equally and nothing else. He doesn't deal with Inc's law, he doesn't deal with each other, as I would say, with legal views of whether or not the evoropski Concentration in article 10 allowed someone to discuss the number of victims in Srebrenica, whether it's borderline or not, whether it's allowed us in Republika Srpska to have our own position or not, we're not dealing with that either, we're dealing with the prevention of stupidity in the future, and this law has only that purpose, there's no point in guiding Mr. Osmanović, that this one, as it is called, has, so you want me to list the other officers of the Fifth Corps Army of BiH who burned my property there, so I won't have the list just going to beat up here. And they also have those judgments, and these people who have been convicted, uh, the army, or the Armed Forces of BiH, have gone to the mesars, put what is called, these newlyweds, and that, all of us have people, we know it all, we can't change each other's views, but we have to live in peace that our children don't fight in the future. I don't claim to give a lecture, I don't pretend to change anyone's consciousness I just want you to understand that all the people where we come from, where we live, think this way that if you, I don't know, here in any way make us say what you like, we won't change anything, and we can't say what's outside of the perception and feelings of the people in Republika Srpska, not just Srbin. And we also understand that it's both here and let's skip what divides us, we'll discuss it at some other time, even the judgments. But this law is beyond that, it's designed to create equality and desecration. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11124	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Although Alma had called before, I don't know why she skipped, but it doesn't matter, before, the first discussion. Agent Arnaut's discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11125	Thank you, Chairman. So you see when the clubs that, or the presidents of the clubs who proposed this law announced in the media that they would seek a ban on the name of the people or entities of genocide media statements by most people in this room from both entities went in the direction that no one sees anything controversial, at least I never use such a dictionary or discourse and it doesn't even touch me in that sense. However, prohibitions and quintic sanctions involve amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, a single crime is simply not treated by specific, or lex specialis laws and from everything that has been said today by the proposing representative, indicating that they have chosen this route just so that the law does not pass and includes elements that far exceed what they have announced in media statements, means that the purpose is to prohibit the appointment of the people or entities genocide. Here is the question and the crime of genocide itself, that's what my colleague Zvizdić was already talking about, so I won't repeat, uh, but in any case what you suggested in both form and essentially completely, has nothing to do with what you announced and what came across relatively positive comments in the media by, I say again, minority of all people in this room and precisely because of these positive comments I think you have decided to offer something that you know is unacceptable. And then that explanation that you did not offer amendments and additions to the Criminal Law so that the legislative sector would not refuse you, because you in principle refuse to call on, or include the number of Official Messengers referring to the law imposed by the high 40 representatives, I have already quoted that Lazar Prodanović, together with Mrs. Krišto and Hazim Rančić, proposed amendments and additions to the Electoral Law in 2016. But here's the deal with Criminal Law that same year, 2016. Sredoje Nović sent amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law, and in the preamble, he neatly called for "the Official Messenger". 54/04, which published the additions to the Criminal Code imposed by the High Representative, which is your favorite Pedi Ešdaun. Not only did this stay on Sredo Novića a year earlier in 2015, the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in the procedure were officially directed by Dušanka Majkić, Milica Marković, Lazar Prodanović, Nikola Špirić and Staša Košarac, who called for the "Official Messenger" No. 54/04, in which I have already said, I have been imposed by High Representative Pedi Ešdaun on the published amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. Therefore, this explanation that you have not sent amendments and additions to the Criminal Code because, in order to avoid calling on the Official Messenger in which the imposed decisions of the High Representative were published, they do not stand, because if they were what you would do then, but would not, they would not call on this Official Messenger concerning Inck's law, but would call on 54/04 concerning Ashdown's amendments and additions. Or we wouldn't even call on the official messenger in which the INC changes were published, but not on 54/04, but it's inexplicable if you didn't call on 54/04 why Sredoje Nović, Dušanka Majkić, Milica Marković, Lazar Prodanović, Nikola Špirić, Staša Košarac, this is the very top of the SNSD. Therefore, there is no doubt that after you came across positive comments in the public when you spoke of banning the name of peoples or entities genocide, you decided to send in both form and essentially something you purposely wrote to be unacceptable. Therefore, your motive is not to protect any people and any entity from calling such terms but to cause a further dispersion in these benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11126	Thank you. Honorable representative Alma Čolo, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11127	Thank you, Chairman. I still think that the action of this crime, as prescribed, is inaccurately and too broadly set and that it leads to, leaves room for arbitration and different interpretation and to lead to legal uncertainty. If you want to ban the use of terms as, here, I don't like it coming out of my mouth, but when someone says that Serbian people are a genocide people, it can be finely prescribed by Criminal Law and said any people in BiH will be called genocide people will be punished by prison from to to and be incorporated into the Criminal Law of BiH. So I don't think that such a wide-ranging provision can be accepted, I really can't vote for it, especially because it's not clear to me, because it says who everyone is, here's how it stands -- who speaks, writes or publicly makes available texts, images or any other representation of the idea of genocide that could spur violence and hatred towards BiH. I don't know now that someone publishes a picture of the genocide committed in Srebrenica how it can spur hatred and violence against BiH when BiH was the victim of that genocide and the people in BiH. So, I don't think you've put this in a good way, I think there are better ways, and here I am ready if you want a working group to form to do additions to the Criminal Law and to ban the name of any people by genocide and anything else you think you should, and to prevent the challenge of racial, religious, national hatred in public space. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11128	Thank you. We are slowly approaching the end of the discussion. So, the representative Stevandić corrects the wrong allegations, and let the representative Begić prepare for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11129	Dear Mrs. Čolo, I won't, I'm not the man who wants to charge you, but you read one sentence, so you skipped two, so you read half a third. For the sake of truth, Article 3 (1) – who speaks or writes or otherwise makes publicly available texts, images or any other representation of the ideas of genocide demeaning, thus demeaning, or exposing to the public Rose of BiH, the Republic of Serbia, the Federation of BiH, the Brcko District, as well as a group of persons or members of a group who are determined on the basis of race, skin color, religion, origin, state, national or ethnicity, and in a way that could encourage violence or hatred directed against BiH, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH, Brcko District, as well as such groups of persons and members of that group will be punished by imprisonment from 6 months to 5 years. Very taxing, and you only read part of the first sentence and then you finally said, uh, this, we can take a stenogram, I want to tell you that what you said didn't just happen. Every nation, every entity, BiH, ethnic... absolutely everything and things like this are in the laws of other countries, so this is not exactly the invention of us from Republika Srpska, we watched as other countries did it, but here you may be by chance, I apologize to you, but for truth's sake everyone has been treated equally.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11130	Representative Begić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11131	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman, respected members of the College, respected media representatives, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly administration. These are really difficult topics and it's always hard to discuss on these topics. Many of us also have very vivid memories, have personal very negative experiences, but I think some of our colleagues have said that we are in difficult circumstances, and I'm afraid we are guilty of these circumstances ourselves. I think that genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity should be talked about, in the first place, in a way that we all reject this kind of procedure and what's very important is this kind of system and that kind of policy, with full dignity towards the victims. In that sense, and when it comes to the proposal of this law, we do not have war crimes and crimes against humanity. War crimes and crimes against humanity also include a terrible enforcement operation, and we here don't have to agree on the law, its contents, or its name that I will refer to later, but we would have to agree on facts, so if we can't agree on facts, then at least we could agree on judicial facts, facts that are set out in the court procedure. Finally, there are courts both in individual disputes and in disputes that arise, unfortunately, and in the case of the most serious crimes under international law, including the crime of genocide, where civilized people accept simply what the courts have ruled. 42 When it comes to the name of the law, when it comes to the matter treated by this law, and given my position, you will allow me to have the right to my own position, to talk about genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and how they would never repeat themselves in these places again, I think that, first of all, it would be worth the law, or perhaps a unique law on the culture of memory in these areas, and in my opinion, our first obligation as public officials, we would also have the responsibility here, that we often, in a spoken public word, know in some way to produce, let me call it the easiest possible vocabulary, very negative consequences on the ground, bartering such or such attitudes, hatred, and also inciting certain things that we should never, in any way, have had to happen, and we do not have any worse experiences here. So, the law on the culture of memory of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity in these areas, and then, within that law, add perhaps a ban on abuse of all these crimes or events in order to cause ethnic, racial and other hatred and intolerance in these areas. I never understood either, nor said that any nation is a genocide people, there are no bad peoples, there can be bad policies, there can be bad political leaders, there can be bad representatives within institutions that come from a certain people and these representatives depend a lot. We don't need to remind ourselves of the causes of the crime-free law against genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, because of the constant denial of the crime of genocide right now. So, there are certain things that are in the realm of humanity, some moral norms, but yet given the weight of the topic that is here today before us, I must tell you that as a man, I am quite satisfied with the way we discussed this subject today, it points to a degree of responsibility and points out that in the coming period, we may be able to bring attitudes closer, but I do not think we should be silent and cross what happened in the 1990s, and what the highest judicial authority is about to take a stand and it should be our memory culture, it should be our obligation to make a clear distance and make a vow that such a thing will never happen again in these places. Here the nations are bound and bound by blood, bound by godfather's connections and family ties, I'm sure there's no one here that no one in the family who comes from the order of all three constitutive peoples, from the order of others, and in that sense we should behave in that way. Sometimes it seems to me that this action, in its own way often knows, knows how to point out fellow Lovrinović, that we often act separately, that everyone comes with some of their proposals. I think it would be good, we're here, we're in Parliament, we're in the same building, we're in the same building, we're sometimes meeting, we're talking, we're getting past these things, I can't believe there's anyone in this room who would justify everything that happened in the 1990s, at the end of the day none of these people who designed these policies and implemented those policies in one system and organized way how international courts and ruled. Thus, no one here has any obligation or obligation to defend such people and such policies. And I today, at least today at this session, didn't even get the impression that anyone is doing it, and I think that in the next period we should go along, taking into account, first of all, our commitment to our children, according to future generations, according to someone mentioned funerals, funerals, dames and weddings, in order to create an environment within which we will go to our children's weddings, not funerals and jazzes, that we have an obligation to sit down, to talk, and to propose together certain acts that will reconcile things. I think that we are very close to some things, but that this separatism often in action is lost in this separatism one more step that needs to be taken to bring about some document that would really be the basis for building a better future, for building better relations and ultimately to regulate relations with the principles of democracy, the principles of rule of law and mutual respect for every man in this country. 43 I thank you, and I hope that I haven’t been too long, I had a need, here, to say these things, and here I hope that from tomorrow we will be able to approach certain problems together and solve certain problems together, and for good, let’s forget those of us sitting here for the benefit of our own. children. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11132	Thank you. zastupnica Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11133	Thank you, Chairman. I really have no intention of deepening the misunderstandings that he clearly has and that are visible from these previous discussions, but I really have to look back on some things. I'm surprised, as I'd say I'm not going to use a bad expression, but really this argument by Mr. Arnaut is to the point that I can't believe what he's referencing to in order to try to discredit something, that seems to be their way of doing things in that club that, I don't know, insinuate them and imagine what our intentions are, ideas, they're doing, they're repeating it, and they seem to have directed their actions into some supernatural and surreal activities. Anyway, Mr. Arnaut, the law that you mentioned and its imposition in 2003 and all that was happening in the judiciary is one of our motives as political parties to act exactly as we do. At that time, colleagues are filled with faith and fine promises that such imposed justice will indeed bring some results in this society for the benefit of all including reconciliation, including equal treatment for victims, including a fair relationship with all crimes committed, but unfortunately I am also talking about war crimes, but also general crime and crimes, but as we all witness, there is nothing of this desert dream. In action we have such a disproportion, such a brutal relationship in terms of convicted crimes in relation to the victims which, unfortunately, I must say, according to national origin, is a fact. So, When someone refers only to judgments, I have to tell you respected colleagues that this is really for us because of scientific access, and because of the numerous evidence, it's not just enough argument. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I'd also like to say, he denied, that is, correcting Mr. HelezStevandić wrong quote, but I need to say something, I'm glad and I believe they're being admitted and recognized by many citizens and Sarajevo and the Federation, regardless of the nation, crimes in the Kazans, but I have to say. For you, gentlemen, these are crimes, for you are officially committed this crime against the citizens, while here from the presentation of fellow Helez, crimes in Prijedor have been committed against the Bošnjak. I think from that finding, we see from that approach where we are and why we are now where we are and why they are to us. and why we must insist on passing such or evil laws. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11134	Thank you. No more logs, moving to agenda number four, 44 Ad. 4. A request by representatives: Snježane Snježana-Novaković-Bursać, Nebojša Radmanović, Obren Petrović, Sanja Vulić, Dragan Bogdanić and Ljubica Miljanović to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-244/22 of 11. 2. 2022. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion. Now I'm going to open a debate on an emergency procedure request and ask those who take the floor at this stage to talk only about their relationship with the emergency procedure request. If the law is passed, then you will have a chance to discuss, discuss, etc. So don't talk about the measure of the law at this stage until it's decided what procedure it is. Representative Bogdanić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11136	Dear chairman, members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, present guests. I'll stick to this suggestion of yours. According to Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly allow the laws formed in simple ways, i.e. in a simple way, to be considered and adopted in one reading, and therefore the Club of Members of the SNSD proposes a law supplementing the Tax Act to an additional value in an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11137	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I suggest we move to a vote on an emergency procedure request. Therefore, we are pleading on an urgent request for an emergency procedure for a proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act to an additional value in accordance with Article 133. Please make a statement. Of the 35 for the 29, there are no against 6 abstentions. So we have a general and entity majority. The proposal was adopted to consider this proposal by means of an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Representative Begić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11138	Dear colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to laws that don't fall within the scope of the profession that I do, I usually like to listen to other colleagues whose profession it is, so that it gets closer to us clearer, especially my colleague, Pekić, I hope that he doesn't mind that I call it this publicly, but, here, reading this law, I realized that he actually potentiates social sensitivity, to potentiate the reduction of the burden on citizens. Given the difficult situation in which the citizens of this country are located, all the circumstances currently taking place when it comes to both the global political and economic scene, the situation in BiH, I, here, had 45 intention of really supporting the introduced different values, the rate of value added tax. In the meantime, however, we have received a proposal that is even more socially sensitive, proposed by Mr Šarović, and it is only because this time I personally, and I believe the Club of the Democratic Front will not support this proposal that came in this agenda, but we will support the proposal proposed by Mr Šarović simply for reasons because he is even more, so to speak, in the interest of the citizens and in the interest of the existence of the citizens themselves. This is a social democratic measure, a measure that has full social sensitivity in it and, therefore, just because we have a proposal on the table that even better regulates that area in terms of citizens themselves, their existence, we will not support this law, we will support Mr. Šarović's proposal, but in any case congratulate my colleagues on these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11139	Thank you. Dear Representative Bogdanić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11140	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the point of this proposal was certainly that in these times that are difficult and certainly in the next period that they'll still be complicated to make through proposals, and here and perhaps through motivation to others that they might also offer a higher rate of tax reduction to additional value, we have defined ourselves, meaning that we propose a reduced rate for certain products, i.e. good medicines, flour, bread obtained from all kinds of flour, milk, dairy products, edible oils, edible fats of animal and vegetable origin, salt, sugar, homogenised baby food, and where here the VAT rate from 17% would have dropped to 10%. Realising that this way too will cause some disturbances in terms of tax collection, i.e. additional value tax, but in order to compensate for the increase in rate or to suggest a higher rate for a certain number of goods and products such as high-quality wines, alcoholic beverages, high-quality cigarettes, cigarillos, luxury perfumes and others, other products from this range of services, clothing and footwear from fur and skin, jewelry and related products, watches and parts thereof, top electric and optical appliances, luxury vehicles for the transport of faces on earth, in the air and on water, art, collectors' articles, antiques, pyrotechnic products for fireworks, cigarette lighters, pocket, stone and others..., luxurious inflow of feathers, weapons. All this, given the time we live in, in which our citizens live, the situation that changes from day to day will probably not be enough to maintain the quality of life so far, especially the quality of life of social categories. All of this will require even more at all levels of government to deal with the standard and especially the standard ones of the most socially vulnerable, so when we make decisions, we need to be rational knowing that we may also reduce our contributions in some positions in various budgets from local to common institutions and thus make it impossible again to achieve some perhaps social giving through so far, through current budgeting. And so, here, I ask you to consider this, this proposal of ours, and to see if he is well-targeted, properly set up. If there are better suggestions, let them certainly be adopted, and let's first see what we're going to do and how we're going to get one or more suggestions. I say, I repeat, it is good that, here, we from Republika Srpska compete to bring good, that is, through our proposals to the citizens of BiH as a whole. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11141	Chairman Zvizdić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11142	Thank you very much. About this bill of law, I'm going to talk briefly about a few things. Therefore, this Law provides that at a reduced rate of 10%, medicines, flour, oil, dairy products and other basic lives of food, and that at the same time, luxury goods are taxed at a higher VAT rate of 22%. However, out of the reasons, the very harsh interpretation of the law, we cannot see what the effects will have on the budgets at all levels of government and why that rate instead of 10 would not be, say 5%, as proposed in the law proposed by the respected representative Šarović. We also do not know whether this law will be a solution to growing inflation, especially given that the deadline of its application is practical by the end of this year, and in a macroeconomic sense it is a very short period for any fundamental change and relief of life and standards of citizens, especially given that inflation will not disappear overnight, but for its regulation it needs a longer period of time and a set of economic measures and interventions of all levels of government and of all levels of the BiH state. Some economists, of course, believe that this law will not give the right effect, will not stop inflation, and that is one indicator that also requires hearing the opinion of the profession. Therefore, in my opinion, it was necessary to collect opinions from relevant institutions starting with the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, Directorates for European Integration, etc. It is also important, of course, to think of the profession from the segment of the Association of Employers, trade unions, consumers from both entities, etc., because this is an extremely important law that must have a real analysis of the effects of the economy and budgets on all levels of government, as well as an answer to the question of whether this will be an adequate response to inflation that we have at this point. There is, of course, another aspect, which is the fact that this law has included everything that needs economics and economy at this point. I remind you that I have earlier proposed a supplement to the VAT Act in a way that allows for the shift of the VAT payment deadline from 10th to the last day of the month. I still think it's quite an appropriate measure, such as, of course, a good measure and to reduce the daily tightening interest on VAT payments. So, if these were adequate measures to facilitate life in the economy, and this would have a positive impact on citizens' standards. For such a thing, I even got the support of the Association of Employers and Businessmen from both entities and Brcko District and it is totally and completely incomprehensible today why this law was brought down in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, especially since it was at the time of the most negative effect on our economy and the stand-up of citizens who produced the pandemic of Kovid 19, and this would be a great incentive for the economy which confirms the positive experiences of European countries and countries in the region that have applied such practice. Now, of course, the time when we have global challenges and market disturbances, especially because of the effects of the pandemic, due to the growth of energy in the world market, because of Russia's invasion into an internationally recognised state of Ukraine. Therefore, the reduction of VAT at this point in time on life supplies is an important measure, but the question is whether it is sufficient to help citizens and businesses in real terms and therefore such changes to VAT law had to be more comprehensive and, of course, include deadlines for paying VAT from the 10th to the last day of the month. And finally, there's another aspect that I can't, not to mention this opportunity which, here, I'm going to call it political incorrection even though I could use some more difficult expression. So, the political inaccuracy of SNSD MPs now proposing a law by the same procedure that I did in 2020 when I asked for a shift in the VAT payment deadline from the 10th to the last day of the month. However, both homes, both in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples 47 SNSD representatives, are the reason for the breaking of the law, which I have proposed, cited Article 14. The law on the indirect taxation system under which the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is responsible for establishing a policy proposal in indirect taxation for implementation throughout BiH, where policy is determined by the Council of Ministers. Now I ask the question where is now the BiH Council of Ministers in this proposal of the SNSD's Club of Representatives. They did not even deign to ask for the Council of Ministers' opinion, but MPs do. I ask the question – where is the Board of Directors for indirect taxation now as the only authority that, as they were then called, determines the policy of indirect taxes in BiH? His opinion must again be sought by the MPs, not by the promoters. Of course, I understand the reasons why these provisions were then called for, but here I find it a little unclear how the principles changed so quickly and that it is quite ok to propose law without the Council of Ministers and without the Directorate for indirect taxation. Of course, I do not dispute this procedure of proposing this Law, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is why I supported it, because MPs sitting in Parliament have a great deal of right to propose laws, it is their right, it is our primary task, because we are sitting in the legislative authority and for that we are elected by citizens, but I want to once again underline the inconsistencies of some policies here in the Parliamentary Assembly which we remember and, therefore, as I do, and when it suits me, then, of course, I can violate all procedures and call for some provisions of law, principles, legal practice, a positive practice, and if I do not fit then, of course, I will break all of that. I will propose such a law without any procedures, without consent, without analysis, without consultation, without the opinion of the Council of Ministers, without the opinion of the Direct Taxation Board, and I will say that it is quite ok, and what was said a year and a half or two ago, it is as if we should forget. But fortunately there are records, stenograms, I didn't want to say this for long, and I've taken out a few quotes from the MPs, these legislators of this law from the House of Representatives and the Peoples to quote them here to see what it looks like when someone else proposes a law that would help the economy, but it's not allowed for some obvious political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11143	Thank you. Mr. Kožul has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11144	My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I find them quite clear, understandable, and justifiable reasons for proposing these laws. Given the jurisdiction we at the state level have the only tool or the only option within the indirect taxation system in the short, medium- or long-term impact on economic processes in the crisis, it stands. Also, it is not in any way after 17, 18 years of application of the Law in the tax system on additional value taboo topics to discuss all aspects of this Law, or of fundamental changes or cosmetic changes to that Law, and by introducing differentiated rates, I would say, not a cruel but a radical amendment to that Law, and we really cannot do so in an emergency procedure regardless of all the reasons. This Law is a systematic, basic, fundamental law and it is precisely why it has specifically transformed within itself, installed a series of specific procedures for any amendment to that Law and I would say, and for a reason. Look inside, when I'm talking about both point 4 and point 7 of today's agenda, there's no need to talk twice. Take a look at both proposed laws in two places and mention the implementing rules that will be passed by the Directorate for indirect taxation, and there is no time limit within which these implementing rules will be adopted, and when you speak, and I have spoken these days because of 48 of these laws with the people of the Directorate for Indirect Taxation, they also warn of human, personal, and of the spatial and especially of software, software limitations, for the express, quick application of this Act if we adopt it in this way according to this procedure. So, all of us who follow this matter somewhat, and I think the Proposer of this Law knows that it is not possible to make this radical change of this law in this way to implement it quickly, and we have again the Law that, at least one of these two laws, is a temporal character. This is indeed a law worth talking about in this way, but we must do so in accordance with the procedures prescribed by that same law, carefully with one quality and, I would say, a serious, expensive and not so short preparation for introducing differentiated VAT rates to us. I will say more personally what I think, otherwise, with all the additions of the Law on Value Added Tax and the special application of this Law over the last 17, 18 years, we all have to admit which, in some ways and we know this matter and who we know less, that this Law has also entered financial stability in BiH, and a certain far greater financial discipline than before the existence of this Law. And when you mention the word stability of any kind in BiH is rare, so what I'm saying, financial stability, is not so insignificant. Here, I really invite you not to do any more harm than it does in this way, so that what's done is done doesn't endanger or spoil it. And that's why I think that, as far as these laws are concerned, these amendments should be considered whether we are doing these laws in one of those prescribed procedures and doing so in a way that competent institutions that are concerned, which deal with indirect taxes, value added taxes, and we are certainly going to get good solutions in such a way and we are going to get enforceable solutions. What we have may be good solutions to this situation, but at this point in the short term, they are not viable solutions and that's the problem with these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11145	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11146	Thank you very much. Here, let me get a little attached to my colleague's Kožul. So, you saw that I was restrained by an urgent, urgent procedure, and you heard a part of the explanation Mr. Kožul was talking about and we were considering at the club. So, here, just a few things that are said to be referred to because I'm not some special expert in this area, but I think what Mr. Kožul said is all standing and perhaps seemingly in the first wave seems to be that intervention in the VAT at this point in time would be in this very neural situation, perhaps never before, perhaps once in 2008, that it was more similar, but I think this one is even worse for a variety of reasons, um, is the question if and let us intervene in this way at the price of how it will be used, do we have the mechanisms to follow it all? And in the end of what kind of offer will actually be on the market for goods and services, are we going to have something to actually pay the VAT, now it's all a question and all this requires these analyses that Mr. Kožul was talking about, and this, colleague Zvizdić said, Chairman Zvizdić said, talked about some of the things that happened before when he proposed, I don't think the circumstances were the same. However, I have spoken before, so here I was quoted by someone today, that our separatist approach to solutions throughout this entire mandate and brought us here, so here we are from HDZ, a little bit of an invited team to hang out and be nice to the public, and here we are proposing some initiatives. But I remind you, therefore, throughout this entire term, we have been buried by both this House and the Council of Ministers, and we have actually done work for each other, or we have not done any work for which we have been invited. And now that, here, 49 comes back to us as a boomerang, so, if we were to be in the tension of power, of creation in this crisis situation to do something and to do something, and of the Council of Ministers and of us, we were simply blocked because of previous points and because of everything we talked about before. So we just haven't worked since the very beginning so that we should still function. So just today, I'm saying something about holding a session, so every new session, we have some new stranger, some new approach, some new way, some new initiative, and we simply and those plans that we adopt, because you send to clubs, so Parliament can adopt that action plan, all of it, there's nothing to plan, there's nothing to talk about. So, we've said everything about this and that law that the SDS gentlemen have proposed, we will, of course, be clear, I've said my position. I think the Club will also have an opinion on this and, indeed, it is very questionable how this works if we bring these provisions and how to come to a solution, that is, how to help citizens. So, here, and we, today we've proposed a law we'll see if you'll follow us, here and we'd a little help the citizens how they like to say, that is, to be, what they say in public, recognize as those who think about citizens, but there's no system. I'm sorry, but I have to say it, so there's no system with anyone. And neither did you, Mr. Zvizdić, nor did we have any analysis of where we are, where we are, what we're going to get tomorrow, and whether it's going to be progress, or if it's going to be an even worse fungi that we're going to get into. I'm sorry to have to say this, but that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11147	Thank you. Representative Bijedić, discussion. We're going a little faster, it's getting cold, we have to work faster.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11148	It's on. So I would like to point out that, first of all, I support this one view of the amendment to the law but given these differentiated rates proposed by the SDS Club, I will discuss this second proposal, of course 5%, and not this of 10%. So is it possible to differentiate the VAT rate as foreseen here? I think it's possible that it's real and that it should have been introduced much earlier. However, I have a disputed procedure for two reasons. First of all, for a differentiated rate, it is of course necessary to make changes to the tariff positions to be done by the Directorate for indirect taxation, to precisely distinguish what the tariff position is and for such a single procedure is necessary for at least two weeks to do so precisely in order not to follow in the tariff in the harmonised system used by the Indirect Taxation Administration which is based on the Brussels Agreement in order to avoid misunderstanding. Secondly, what is needed, of course, to do parallel work, is to change software, so-called ASYCUDA, which is located in the Indirect Taxation Office where all this new data should be agreed that when each customs duty is done, clear and accurate data should be obtained. Of course it is, I say all in some two maximum three weeks can be completed, but there is another problem that the legislators here probably did not accidentally or intentionally treat, which is that this way we should think carefully about protecting domestic producers. So the domestic producers of these goods that are under the reduced tariff system of 5% or 10%, whatever rate we accept, hopefully 5%, will find themselves in a very unfavourable position. For such domestic producers, for such procedures, there is another duty which is called prelarmans and for the introduction of a prelerman to precisely these goods which are required here, the prelermans are not, of course, bound to tariff, tariff and price and invoice value, this is a fixed amount, for which it would take at least three to four weeks to determine this correctly and 50 would thus protect domestic producers of these goods, as domestic producers that produce certain goods up to a ton cannot be competitive with importers who import up to 100 or 500 tonnes. In this way, they would be brought into an equal position. So, in addition to the differentiated rate and the changes in software, you should consider and see how domestic producers would be protected by prelerms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11149	Thank you. No more reports, moving to agenda number five, Ad. 5. A request by MPs: Saša Magazinović, Nermin Nikšić, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02- 1-298/22 of 9. 3. 2022. So, first we'll discuss an emergency procedure request without reference to the content of the law itself, if it is adopted, then we'll open the debate. Representative Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11151	Thank you. It's hard to talk about the urgency of the procedure, not reminding you of 2017 when this law was passed, but here, let's leave it for discussion. So, the news recently posted in the media that the fuel would reach the price of four stamps per litre has caused a huge panic, so we saw a reaction, so we saw a denial of that news, and then a few days later all the media, a few days later all the media reported that actually such a scenario could happen. We are not solving a global problem today, nor are we able to do it, but we are trying to do something with this law for BiH citizens under the circumstances they are. Transporters of goods and passengers have long indicated that we will be in this situation as well as representatives of the Association of Businessmen from both entities. The information from the distributor also says that oil and oil distributors are also talking about the possibility that prices will continue to rise, that the global market is the way it is, that even for oil and oil derivatives, space is narrowing down, and that the situation when it comes to alarmers, and the time remains for the authorities to react is very short. That is why all this is urgent when it comes to our reaction as Parliament but also other levels of government in different ways using the many tools available to them. I'm going to say one more thing why this is urgent, not about citizens' money, but it doesn't matter, this is one of the measures that we're going to protect at least a little bit the mental health of citizens who think, quite rightly, that in this whole mess absolutely no one cares about them, that no institution has made any concrete move. People are surprised, these lines that formed for one news story in the media remind people of the pre-war period when, among other things, the images that remained recorded and in the memory of the people, the lines at the gas stations. I believe that by adopting this law today, primarily an emergency procedure, and then a law, we send a message that is positive, which will not solve economic problems for everyone, but wants to reduce the fuel price of 30 to 45 fencing depending on the type of fuel, but also send a message that we sitting in this room are responsible and we want to show it. Support for this law and this measure exists not only from 51 citizens, it is undivided in part of the BiH state, but also from entity prime ministers, Mr Višković and Mr Novalić. Each of them, each of them expressed it in his own way, Mr. Višković said that the Republika Srpska government was ready to urgently introduce an action to lift the excise duty on a certain period of time, and Mr. Novalić, who probably woke up from a dream, from a hibernation, in a way that he said that he was considering proposing the abolition of the excise duty even though he was first incompetent, that is state jurisdiction, and another thing, such a measure had already been proposed for eight days when he said it, but the support of it was unquestionable. If we adopt an emergency procedure, I will remind us in further discussion of how we have come to this excise, and also to say a few more information that unfortunately are not very great but are in favour of having to react urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11152	Thank you. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, and because of, let me say, the temperature conditions we have in the O.R., I'm shortening the time for discussions for five minutes. Representative Bijedić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11153	Thank you. So in any event, this proposal should be seen as an intervening measure which is commendable at the moment when society is in the economic crisis in which ours is and with, of course, with undetectable consequences that can further supply oil and oil products can produce problems in this society here. Commendation to the promoter above all, that this is the first time that I am in public discourse and in the media and I say in Parliament that someone clearly knows the differences between excise duties and tolls. I've never really had a chance to see and congratulate the promoter before. This is good, and it should be noted that excise duties are, in any case, something that goes directly into budget spending, that loans are financed from this, i.e. international obligations of this country, agencies, institutions, salaries, contributions, etc., and that the toll goes to special, goes directly to building infrastructure...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11154	We're in an emergency procedure, and then we'll enter a measure of our own, where it goes to a part of the excise. Please, we're just pleading for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11155	In any case, we support an emergency procedure because emergency and intervention measures need for one of these types, for this kind of state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11156	Thank you. Representative Bijedić was last. So now we'll get to the point of requesting an emergency procedure. 52 Out of the total 33 – for 28, against 3, abstention 2. There's a community, there's no entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Shall we repeat the vote? Okay. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11161	Just a few sentences about how the law was passed. At the time, the head of the EU Mission, Wigemark, was the bearer of this activity. I remember that session well when we worked until 4 a.m. and when we were against the introduction of excises in different ways, first of all by Wigemark, much less by political opponents with bh. political scenes have been characterised as enemies of BiH's development, as someone who opposes building road infrastructure and highways in BiH. Why? Because first of all, his main argument for the introduction of excise and fuel collection between 30 and 45 fencing was that this money would be used to build highways. Analysts have calculated that within three years of this period, only in three years, and the period is much longer, 3.6 billion were collected. For that money, two highways could have been made without foreign borrowing, but that didn't happen. Of course, the excise money didn't go, as we said then it would happen, where it was used, as counterpart Bijedić said, to fill the budget. Wigemark left, did his job, left dead cats in the freezer, and us with more expensive fuel, with a excise that, here, and that we should have introduced, could have been much less. Today, the situation is such that it is a measure that we can and unfortunately 53 must implement, so for a certain period of time, the budgets must give up that part of the money and it is not only in BiH. If you look at the region and the world, all measures are being taken. My colleague from the club, Nikšić, will also talk about one measure we intend to propose in the next period but we simply need to be in this difficult time solidarity. The state or all budgets record their record amount, and it is a regular phenomenon that politicians appear on television and praise that they never have a bigger budget. That would be great if they brought that money from home and put it into the budget so they could have some credit for it. However, the huge amount of money in the budgets comes from VAT for reasons because they have gone wild and because much more money is being raised from citizens and these record budgets only mean that the record amount is taken from citizens. And it is not only the abolition of the excise measures that we can take to at least mitigate the effects of an economic crisis that is global, which we cannot put our finger on anyone in BiH and say it is his fault, but we can point our finger at many in BiH and say it – he did nothing to reduce the effects of the crisis. That is why I believe that, in addition to what we, on our part, will do as we can as a state Parliament, we should also appeal to entity governments that have much more tools to use, and it is not only a restriction on the margin that has been mentioned recently, that they are acting too. If we are solid, if at this point we ignore the political differences when we talk about these things and the needs of citizens, because I am sure that there are carriers that support both the position and the opposition, both left and right, but they have the same problem, in the same way we should treat this problem and try to act together. I invite you all together today to lift the excise duties and see together what else we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11162	Thank you. Representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11163	I feel the need to bring a few facts here just about oil prices and to remind myself that a few days ago oil reached, the price of oil reached $138 per barrel, the highest in the last 20 years, and fortunately over a day or two, it fell to about $121 to $122 per barrel. I will also remind you that the record fuel price in history so far has been $145 per barrel, so already, the world has been approaching this record price since 2008. There are some estimates that say that in BiH the processes would be as normal as the maximum price of fuel should be 2 stamps, which means that with this suspension of excise duties we will not reach that price, i.e. there are still some measures that will lead to price reductions. At this point, the oil company, therefore, records exceptional profits. And I would also remind myself of the fact that OPEC countries have committed to increase production by more than 2.5 million barrels, but they are doing it on a spoon, a little by little, at a monthly amount of 250 to 450 thousand barrels, but here it is expected that in about six months, they will reach that level of price they are committed to and that, eventually, prices could begin to fall. I will remind myself that regardless of what we are not in the European Union, but that the European Commission, therefore, was thinking precisely about the measures to be taken, that it means to adopt a draft plan towards which Europe would become independent of Russian fossil fuels significantly before 2030, that Energy Kadri Kadri Simson stated that in the remaining weeks of this winter Europe has enough gas, but for the following year, reserves have to be added urgently, 54 are then presented to regulate the prices of state support, taxation, etc. So, of course, the European Union is also dealing with this issue and therefore confirms the possibility of regulation of prices under exceptional circumstances. This is what I needed to say because our Council of Ministers, as well as many times so far, asleep, sleeps a winter dream, I think it was already time to wake up, March is a month, they haven't responded adequately to either the migrant or the cove crisis, and here we see that absolutely nothing is done even when this crisis is at stake. In this regard, I will propose one conclusion, under which we are therefore requesting, therefore, a House of Representatives: That the Council of Ministers of BiH should, within 15 days of the adoption of this conclusion in the parliamentary procedure, send a set of measures to overcome the current economic situation resulting from the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. We see both the surrounding countries and how they do their plans and determine what it is they can do for their citizens, and our Council of Ministers is doing nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11164	Thank you. Here, let's move on, please, I urge you to work faster, to make the discussions more concise, if that's possible, it's already getting cold, is it, it's almost six o'clock. Representative Nikšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it would certainly be much, much better if such measures were proposed by the Council of Ministers, proposed by the Executive Authority, but unfortunately we are all witnessing that this is not the case here. When a man sees a country in an environment doing so in neighbouring countries in Croatia and Serbia, he feels sorry for us and for our citizens for the lack of care and power we have. It is interesting that the capacities that BiH has when it comes to oil terminals are sufficient, that we were smart and that in time we filled in or at least gave our oil carriers to fill them, to provide oil reserves not only for the former Yugoslav countries, for the countries of the former, this, that, created by the disintegration of the former state, but also for a much wider region. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and no matter what measures we will take today and what measures will surely be taken in the face of a crisis in fuel supply. I would only like here to disprove the claims that we had in the coolards today, to listen to some people who have objected to us because of the fact that this way the revenues in the budget will fall, because it is quite certain that because of the increase in prices and VAT payments, these revenues will be compensated when it comes to budgets at all levels. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues and my colleagues to support us. And what my colleague Saša said when it comes to it, we will soon come up with another measure that we also see being prepared and brought into the environment, which is to abolish 10% customs duties on imports of oil and petroleum products from third countries, because it is also one of the measures that no country in the European Union would have, but there is BiH as a member of CEFTA. So let's predict the elimination of these customs duties, because it would also be one of the measures that would certainly help our import companies to make it easier to get fuel, as well as help our population, citizens and businesses when it comes to the price of oil and oil derivatives. So, I would really ask for support, it has undivided support from the public and the businessmen, and I hope that we too will show understanding here for one such measure. 55 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11166	Thank you. Representative Bijedić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11167	Thank you. Well, as I mentioned earlier, this is an intervention measure for six months, as it stands by the promoter, with the possibility that the Council of Ministers may extend three more months later and means that this measure should be supported and the suspension of excise duties should be imposed. However, we should also think about something else, simple mathematics, which says that about a million gallons of oil and oil derivatives are imported in BiH annually, with an average excise rate of between 35 and 45 fencing per litre, meaning about 40, we come from 200 million converting marks, which will be missing in the budget. You should consider, of course, how to compensate for these funds, whether to reduce these powerful agencies that we have, which do nothing, are located at the state level, are just designed to accommodate individuals etc. But this is a real amount of missing funds in half a year that's gonna show up. And also the second question, I see that no one's been processing it, no one's mentioning it, I want to think it's an accident, of course. Is it true that the fixed margin of the importer, the oil distributor, is 25 fening per litre? So, no matter how much it costs a liter of fuel in the purchase and how much they sell their 25 fencing regularly and neatly charge. So if we're stepping into this sphere to cut the income to the institutions and what's right and they need to be done, let's see some distributors to cut their margin, that 25 fening is too much. Maybe some more funds can be cut out of that gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11168	Thank you. Representative Borenović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11169	Thank you. Well, it is clear that extreme times require decisive and rapid reactions and adequate measures, and that is why I think it is very important that perhaps the most important decision that Parliament will not doubt today is to make precisely this decision concerning the amendment of the Law on Excises in BiH, which would end these famous excises and in a certain way indirectly assist not only transporters, but all citizens in this society to make it easier for them to overcome this extremely complex, difficult and demanding economic crisis, which has affected our country as well. And on the other hand, that is one of the two reasons why we, from the PDP and our fellow opposition from Republika Srpska, have made this kind of exception, given the decision we had previously had not to participate in making decisions, but today we need to put all the difficult political issues aside and overcome the kind of political tensions that we have in a huge number of BiH and decide on a very important step, which is to vote for this law, but also that law regarding a more drastic reduction in VAT rate from 17 to 5%. I think it's a kind of commitment that puts before us the time that 56 of us are facing. I sincerely hope that today's decision of the House of Representatives will in some way initiate and that, as soon as possible, the same decision is made and that this whole process of abolishing or eliminating the excise duty, which the excise duty carries with it into the price of fuel, liters of fuel, finally enters into force and that we finally have the possibility to at least 30, 35 or 45 fencing as much as possible depending on the type of fuel, to reduce the price of a litre of fuel to the final consumer. That's what citizens expect from us, and I think it's extremely important that we get this job done as soon as possible. We've spent a lot of time today, chairman, you're absolutely right about some things they might have been able to wait for, that have dragged us away from these primary economic issues and measures that need to be quick and efficient, and on that side I expect us to finish this debate as soon as possible and finally vote, and not only to reduce the price of fuel through the elimination of excise duties, but also to vote on that better proposal to cut the VAT rate from 17% to 5% so that we can also influence this wild-ass price that takes so much toll that it has really become out of control. And lastly, I find it amazing that we live in a country where we see the government absolutely not doing its job and that all those who say that silence, reluctantness, not doing the Council of Ministers, executive structures of government have become unbearable. In a country where the government is not doing its job, the High Representative imposes very sensitive legal solutions, it is quite logical and justified that MPs try to solve the accumulated problems in the society in which we live and on this side the obligation and responsibility of the MPs in this House to be visible and to give certain effective results in contrast to, I must say once again, the authorities that have hardly done anything concrete during this term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11170	Thank you. Representative Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11171	Well, here's what I'm going to say about this law, at least we had one situation that we only have when our colleague Šiljegović presents his report that we are all in favour, it's an interesting situation today in Parliament, this one, but there are specific circumstances, so that's probably why. So, it would be better, I would be happier if this law had been discussed in a regular procedure, because this is a complex law and that, if we had obtained it from the executive and I agree with it, but here are the circumstances specific, so we have inputs from all the public, so to speak, we have inputs from both entity levels in terms of this, and probably just because they were unique in accepting an emergency procedure. And this law is really urgent, but if it wasn't simple to go into emergency procedures and if we got it from the third try, we had three variants of this law, so it's not simple. And I will now propose in accordance with Article 133 of the Technical Nature Amendment which removes one small mistake that has been made in this last, third repair of this Law, I think it is very important, so here listen to me briefly. So you got that amendment in writing. So, what I welcome is that the legislator has defined as a temporal law, but in this proposal, he has defined only Article 1 of his law as a temporal, Article 2 which is closely related to Article 1 and as regards the abuse of vine oil... code in this way, in this way, the formulated law as we have obtained remains permanent. Therefore, this temporal of six plus 57 three months in this way concerns only numbers which, which refer to excise duties, and which do not concern Article 2 which speaks of matters which are causally related to Article 1. That's why we're like a club in this technical amendment, to call it that, therefore, an amendment that is in line with the possibilities set out in Article 33. The Rules of Procedure moved that temporal character to a specific Article 3 of the Law and it refers to both articles preceding and Article 1 and Article 2. I call for you to accept this one amendment, because it really affects the law to be fully clear later in application, not to remain unclear and it is unclear in one completely wrong way.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11172	Thank you. Representative Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11173	A colleague, Kožul, is absolutely right, it is a technical correction, in this Article 2 the word “accise” is changed by the words “money” and remains that, conditionally speaking, the penalty for which the amount is unchanged, but this would seem much more beautiful and if the others are acceptable in this regard technically, this one is indeed irrevocable.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11174	Representative Osmanović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11175	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with all those who have pointed out that all these amendments and additions to the law, and the Law on VAT and the Act on Excises should have been done by the Council of Ministers, here today we have neither the Chairman here nor the Minister of Finance and do so in co-operation with the Department for indirect taxation. In view of the situation that is happening in Ukraine, we have seen that, when we propose this Law, which was proposed on February 24th, we already have an increase in oil and oil derivatives that cross these 35-feng excise duties. Given this cold, too, when it comes to this very joke, I'm just going to suggest one conclusion on behalf of the SDA MPs' club. The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is tasked with delivering a detailed analysis of the effects of the Law amending the Act on Excises in BiH from 30.11.2022 and by 10.12.2022 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11176	Thank you. Agent Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11177	Your Honor, I'll be brief for the reasons you've stated. I'm one of the co-proposers of this law, and I don't think at this point we could react faster or more urgently to citizens' problems like this Law. We know that the collection of energy generates the addition of all other life-forms, and I think by reducing 58 of this fuel price by 35 to 40 fening, it will stop as much price increases as it does. And the other thing that is very important here, I think this is a unique opportunity for us to be as divided as we are here, to move away from the war in Ukraine, to move away from the Election Law and many other things that we cannot agree on, to show the citizens that we are ready all together for the benefit of all of us in BiH to declare this important law and to show one synergy with the citizens and all political entities in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11178	Thank you very much. No more reports. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. A request by legislators: Nikola Lovrinović, Borjana Krišto, Predrag Kožul, Darijana Filipović and Mije Matanović to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-371/22 of 8. 3. 2022. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion. I'm opening a debate on an emergency procedure, but only an emergency procedure request, if adopted, then we'll open a debate on the law itself. Kožul, discussion, representative of Predrag Kožul discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11180	Well, I'm going to concentrate in this one first on the matter of urgency and this procedure. The law we have proposed here meets both the conditions set out in Article 133 of our Rules of Procedure and the urgency, and simplicity. The urgency is quite clear to us, for the same reasons as some other law today he is, uh, concerned with where we are really in charge, the question of the twenty and some thousand people who receive salaries from BiH institutions. You've all probably got a letter from the National Police Officers' Unions the other day, and we're all very aware that very long wages haven't been changed in, although they've been reduced at the level of state institutions, you're all very aware that those subsistence officers and civil servants of the lower rank have very little salaries and when we compare them to their surroundings, to the Federation and the Canton of Sarajevo, and they're all here somewhere. That's why I think it's this way. The simplicity is reflected in that in a very simple way which is socially sensitive, this, we have resolved the issue of a certain salary increase, but not to all the employees of BiH institutions but only to those who really have a slightly lower income, you know what our coefficient is, and we have kept this increase at a level to a 3 coefficient. I don't need to explain it to you any further. I call on us to support this emergency procedure, to pass this law which is simple and in application and this, to, if the emergency procedure is supported, I will say something about the very essence and, as a matter of fact, the details of this Law. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11181	Thank you very much. Agent Mandar, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11182	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the law is proposed by emergency procedure, the SDA Club will support this procedure because we will come up with a solution in a quick and efficient manner to increase salaries for civil servants and that of professional associates, more professional associates and professional advisors, then an increase in the salary of soldiers, sub-offices and officers, in conclusion with the rank of brigade, and police officers, from police officers to the final act of senior inspectors, and employees from lower professional training to a self-response of a higher school preparedness. The increase is done by increasing the coefficient by 0.2, which in practice means increasing the salary for those categories by 95 KM with the current pay base. The reasons for the increase are also contained in the fact that the salary at the state level is less than the salary at the level of entities, cantons, municipalities and cities for the same categories, that it has not been increased to friends for many years, that the base has fallen from 535 to 475 KM, that officials, police officers and tenants leave state institutions. Once again in the end, we support an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11183	Thank you. Representative Begić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11184	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as well as in previous cases of excise proposals and the introduction of a differentiated VAT rate, I would like to congratulate the promoter on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11185	Thank you very much. No more reports. We're pleading for an emergency procedure. Of the 35 – for 34, abstention 1. We have a general and entity majority, a requirement for the law to be considered by an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 133. Now I'm opening a debate about the law itself, I hope there won't be a lot of reports, we've heard everything about this law. We have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, no, we have, we have, we have, we Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11186	Yeah, I have to do it again very briefly, so I'm going to appreciate all these reasons you're talking about. So, a colleague of Mandra's already read the essence of this law, I'm not going to repeat it. So, the reasons are very clear, inflation, increased cost of life, a crisis of different kinds, and what we have already mentioned about the salaries in BiH institutions, we know that, in most of these institutions, they are employed, that this applies most to both the military and the police and all of them, uh, primarily to the furniture and one part of the civil servants. So, we went up to the level of an expert advisor, from cleaning lady, courier, to the level of expert advisor's going up to a point of 0.20 which implies an increase in salary from about 100 to 130 or slightly more marks, so, depending on, 95 marks is the base, depending on the length of the job, depending on one good part of these people has one supplement on the salary, so that's about that increase in sum it's cca 30 million marks, so far more than, far less than what, we took 400 thousand marks possibly from this previous Excise Act. One addition, so, with this one, I think you're going to get it on the bench now, and we have a proposal for one conclusion, so, by increasing wages at this level, we don't want to minimize it, nor do we want the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance's initiative, which has been discussed in the Council of Ministers, unfortunately not yet realised, in terms of enlargement and fundamentals. Because this increase of a hundred and some marks for all of these people is not enough, therefore, we hold that, through the increase of the basics, another step can be made in due time, and I will read to you a very short conclusion, which says: The Council of Ministers is in charge that within 30 days of the adoption of this conclusion, and on the basis of the analyses and budgetary projections carried out, it makes an appropriate decision to increase the base for the calculation of salaries employed in BiH institutions. So we have not defined the figure here, therefore, based on projections and analysis of the corresponding increase and since this activity in the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance has already begun and in some ways been rounded up, I hope that, based on this conclusion, it will also be brought to an end eventually. We were also forced here to, for the sake of clarity of the law, adopt one technical correction in accordance with Article 133. Our Rules of Procedure in a way that we are the amendment that you received or did not receive, but here I am, short, going to read it. Therefore, in the Law amending the Law on Salaries, which we are talking about, Article 7 is amended and reads: “This Law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger and shall apply from the first day of the month following the entry into force of this Law.” So we've defined this part of law enforcement since the first month in order to avoid these technical or some sort of programme difficulties in calculating wages if it sits somewhere in half a month or so. Therefore, a very clear and technical change and I call on you to comply with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure and we accept this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11187	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11188	With regard to the conclusion that Mr. Kožul has just proposed, we will be able to support it only if the proposing changes instead of standing – for employees in BiH institutions, to stand – for civil servants and tenants. So, there's no talking about raising the basis for elected and appointed officials, don't play with it, introduce a small door to raise salaries for MPs, ministers, directors, etc. Therefore, here I call on all my colleagues to reject this conclusion in full unless the promoter changes it to make it clear that it applies exclusively to civil servants, not to all the staff in the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11189	Thank you. Dear colleague Krišto, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11190	Thank you very much. Here I have listened carefully to all these discussions and, of course, I am glad that we have one kind of, I would say, almost general consensus when it comes to these kind of measures that are being proposed, so we are, and when it comes to this law, this is whose proposings we have, we have heard what is affecting and what has moved us to let one of these laws into the process. In fact, all these inflationary movements in BiH that are highly dependent on the import prices of food, oil and oil derivatives in the last few months have been growing dizzyly, and yet everything else, so it's really reflecting negatively on income and affecting the living standard of the population, so we're offered this. And since I am, I will no longer explain it since my colleague has said enough and we have heard some of your proposals through an emergency procedure, and also through the contents of the law, I have only come out and followed other laws, in the previous and excise cases, since my colleague Saša has proposed to go to the House of Peoples by emergency procedure, I also propose a conclusion within this section of the 6th agenda of this session today, that Parliament's House of Representatives directs the draft law on amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider and adopt by an urgent legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11191	Thank you, colleague. We don't have any more logs. We move on, we move on to agenda number seven, Ad. Seven. Request by agent Mirko Šarović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-378/22 of 9. 3. 2022. So the debate is just a request for an emergency procedure at this stage. Are there any reported debaters? 62 So now we'll get to the point of requesting an emergency procedure. Of the total 36 – for 30, against 2, abstention 4. There's a general and entity majority. We have accepted that this proposal for a tax code on additional value is being considered by an urgent legislative procedure. Now I'm opening a debate about the law itself. Is anyone picking up? If no one answers, since we discussed the previous law, we move on. Agenda point number eight, Ad. 8. Continuing the procedure concerning the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01-02-1393/21 of 7. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure: MPs Predrag Kojović, Denis Zvizdić, Nermin Nikšić, jasmin Emrić, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Aida Baručija, Nada Mladina, Zukan Helez and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, number: 01-50-1-377/22 of 9. 3. 2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11196	What would Mr. Nešić say? Mr. Zvizdić was the only one who spoke, so it can only be directed, so the correction of the wrong quote, to what he said, but I won't detail. So it wasn't said here as you said, but it was said that this moment the state wasn't what it was once signed for, that's what it was said, and not how you said it, and we said right there that you signed it, because we saw it yourself that you did it, but that they can't be the same relationships and parameters. But that's what we're going to discuss if today falls another time, we're not going to take up time today, so you weren't correct when you said that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11197	I've just quoted everything that's been said, but here it may be, looking for stenograms, but there will be an opportunity on the Commission to discuss this again. No more reports, moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2020, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01.02-04-1-1412/21 of 8. Seven. 2021. The House College has appointed the Joint Commission for Human Rights as competent. The Joint Committee delivered its opinion. She accepted the report. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to agenda number 12, Ad. 12. Special Report on the Efficiency of Legal Solutions in the area of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01,02-37-1188/21 of 30. Nine. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11201	I thank the Honorable Chairman. First of all, I welcome and feel very useful that the BiH Ombudsman institution has produced this special report on hate speech because unfortunately we witness daily in the entire public space and very often in different forms of communication the presence of hate speech and radicalisation between individuals or groups based on hate speech. The hate speech unfortunately has a fertile soil in BiH because of our recent past and postpartum, and it is therefore very important to perceive this phenomenon as a potential security threat and to prevent it in every way so that this deviant narrative is contained and treated in every sense. Each of us, particularly political representatives, has the responsibility to combat hate speech, and it is therefore inevitable to support this way of special reporting on this malicious and dangerous narrative that is being generated daily by political and other initiatives and we can freely say, pollutes the entire media and public space. It is commendable that the Ombudsman's institution is in this context and in this difficult time when, on the scene of destructive policies that literally and unscrupulously include the seeds of hate speech in public space, focused their work and action on hate speech and made recommendations that included the necessary actions and actions of our institutions to reduce and combat this deviating social phenomenon. In this regard, I will briefly refer to the content of the Report – it concerns a small number of registered objects related to hate speech, the introduction of the Ombudsman states that it is only two or three cases a year and that the cases are open according to official duty. I believe that this does not correspond to the practical state in which BiH literally chokes in hate speech, and in particular this phenomenon is expressed on social networks and in an online space where there are no borders, and all sorts of free and available media are abused in different ways by spreading hate speech as a virtue which unfortunately takes on sympathy and which our society already suffers from in a more advanced and very worrying phase. Also, I believe that the Ombudsman institution should have asked the VSTV for information on the number of cases related to hate speech before the BiH courts in order to have a clear and complete picture of the processing of hate speech in BiH. As several examples of official duties are mentioned in the report, it would be good to state and how they have acted in these cases, how a selection of actions is conducted because in a large number of cases they are not being handled at all. In fact, it is not clear what is essential to react according to official duty, or why some cases are processed and the largest number is not treated. I also think that more proactive action by the Ombudsman institution is needed in terms of and concrete condemnation of hate speech in certain cases where hate speech can significantly cause damage in society. In an analysis of domestic legislation in the report, it is concluded that at the level of BiH, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District, provisions that 66 explicitly refer to the ban on hate speech via the internet are not contained in the way it is regulated in the Criminal Law of the Republika Srpska Entity. So I think it would be useful for the institution to process that finding in a way that we are fully clear whether this is the problem with processing and sanctioning, since we see that there are no recommendations in this direction for amending and supplementing the Criminal Law. I think the key question is assuming that the legislative framework is good why we no longer have procedural cases related to hate speech, or what is in our existing system of obstacles and brakes that we do not have visible results of deterrence from hate speech. Finally, I would like to point out that I support the recommendations contained in this report but because of the importance of the recommendations proposed and of course I propose a conclusion which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within 60 a plan for the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations from the Special Report on hate speech in BiH and to submit for consideration to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11202	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11203	I must admit that I was prepared for this part of the agenda, but it seems degutant to me now that I would say just a few words about what the subject of the agenda is, and this is a report made by the insolent and I, as well as my colleague Emrić, consider it a really good and good starting material that we can talk about it and of everything I mean on that subject is also a part of what Mr Emrić said, that with us this mechanism, that phenomenon, as he said, as he called it here the Ombudsman, therefore, the hate speech is incredibly widespread, so he crosses all the borders, all the borders cross. I know that, or I'm not sure, do people who use it, especially on electronic networks, on portals, know that it's even three months to three years? Simply or we don't tolerate, not just us, MPs, but anyone who communicates with each other on these portals or various e-mails, addresses, etc., either they're not aware of it or they're so encouraged, so now you're starting to get messages on the official e-mails of that kind that even resembles, which are on the edge, so to be a criminal act, or there's some sort of belief of the person who's talking to you. So, for example, a public e - mail agent, an official e - mail who wants to communicate with citizens, you end up getting something that is quite counterproductive. But now I'm just going to say a part of it, that somehow I would encourage us to think about it if we read this report and there might be some opportunity to talk a little bit more about it in some earlier phase of Parliament's session when we have enough attention, but we seem to be doing a lot here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in the House of Representatives, but I think at other levels of different parliaments and MPs and e-mails to make that hate speech in the media something that, I don't know what to call it, that it's considered cool, so that it's a simple way of behavior, so you've all seen in your emails what you're told. It's amazing, therefore, that it's amazing that agencies that follow the work of electronic media, printed media, do nothing, prosecutors do nothing, that no one, what Mr. Emrić said does, you have so much, such hate language that it's terrible. But how can we not, therefore, when in the absence of arguments on various matters we call each other criminals, criminals, eventually fascists, therefore, because we have no argument. So when we discuss each other's certain things, so here's 67 and today part of it was, we use these epithets that don't mean anything, except that they're warming up the atmosphere in public, it doesn't mean anything. The fact that we tell someone that fascist ideas, that they represent such, such divisions, here we are talking about what might be interesting to me about the Electoral Law, the constitutional court decision implemented, we here when we say from HDZ that we are asking for it to be carried out, then we are being accused of division, and ultimately it comes to fascism, to fascism. The lack of arguments about it brings us, remember the debate about... remember the debate, here, about the excise fees, remember any debates in the past term and in this, so these were the pressures, I don't only know if they want to talk about, from the threat of how you're going to vote, how you're going to discuss and what you're saying, but now I'm saying, we're doing it ourselves, unfortunately. I wish that at least when we're discussing arguments here, that we don't glue those epithets and give cream to those who abuse it later and for which I can be held liable, but that's what this is about. Finally, in order to avoid further debt, I would also like these recommendations from the scope of this report to be acceptable, but I propose another solution, and I suggest that these proposals become our conclusions. So, in writing, I'm going to deliver that to you so that these are conclusions and that they have certain additions to those recommendations that I wouldn't read to you. Let's say that certain recommendations introduce deadlines that some bodies have to form, take some actions, and you can read it here so I don't read now, not take the time, in writing I'll give it. I suggest, therefore, that these recommendations become our conclusions, that we accept the report, and that we turn these recommendations into conclusions with these amendments that I have suggested if they are acceptable to you. So now you may not be able to comment on them because you don't have them in front of you, but here, I'm going to direct this to copy, there's one five, six, so it wouldn't be clear to you, in one sentence, I'm adding deadlines, something, not to convince it. There, thank you very much. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11204	Thank you very much. Representative Magazinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11205	First of all, I congratulate my colleague Emrić on the discussion and I fully sign it. I'm sorry it's a session like this, and we can't focus on this subject maybe in one appropriate way that she deserves, and that's not how we're discussing today, and maybe sometimes there's a feeling that we need a thematic session on this subject. Only colleague Lovrinović mentioned some of these e-mails we're getting, I'll just read you a few sentences from an email that I recently received. I've been thinking, since there's a lot to deal with, whether or not to report it, but here we're dealing with some other topics, so we're going to see what the fate of this email will be. He says this - this is the age of freedom of the Croatian people in Herceg Bosnia under which we Hrvat stopped to defend our Croatian people from our enemies, especially the Serbian people. The Serb people are to order an enemy to the Croatian people in Herceg Bosnia. Then he says, among other things, when the aggression from your Serbian brothers began, who is my Serbian brother, who is in the blood of killing, burning and trampling with the pagan Serb boot of my home country of the Republic of Herceg Bosnia. That's what SNSD colleagues were talking about, and the rest of them, as one people can't be called genocide or given any specifics. It says here, in this e-mail, that in the blood of a nation there is killing, burning and trampling. So, these things that come to e-mails, in different other ways to many of us, I fully agree with my colleague 68 Lovrinović that there are too many and that there are elements of criminal responsibility and that these things should be reported and made BiH institutions respond, not only against those that we call Internet warriors who hide behind keyboards, most often do not have a loop name and name to show, but it is easy to find, there is no problem. And when a single-digit number of them are punished in relation to what they are doing, and according to the laws of the BiH state, a huge number of others, small mice hiding behind keyboards, they will crawl into their holes from where they came from and we will decontaminate the Bosnian hergic society a little bit. Once again, congratulations fellow Emrić on the discussion, and I invite all of us to consider having a theme session on this subject in due course.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11206	Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11207	Well, so, my colleague Magazinović said something, he read us an email, and I didn't want to go into that kind of story, and here we are, and recently you've heard a little bit in the media that I'm thinking about handing it over to the D.A., but when I was talking about us, about our responsibility, about what we do and what we do, so what you read, here I'm just going to fill it out, so your colleague's statement from SDP, Vojin Mijatović, was on the show, so I asked the prosecution what they did, who said that the negotiations were held in the middle of the Usta flag, in the show directly that Hadžifejzović was caught what he said. This is a colleague, who is a party member and of course that probably the reaction followed this way, you couldn't expect any different. I do not justify it, therefore, and I congratulate you if you initiate the criminal responsibility procedure, so be it, but I have asked the prosecution what has been done in this regard. It's a hate speech straight, on a direct show and not only that, it was so ugly to watch, so, calling for unrest, I don't know who was watching that show, let her look at it, the Central Log. It was so ugly... I don't know what happened to him. So it's amazing how we're using just because he didn't go down non-negotiation, I don't know what his reason was, that you can imagine that Hadžifejzović remained a founding team, how much a man foamed on that show. So, you went down to talk under the Ustasha flags in the middle where they... What kind of story is that, what kind of conversation is that, what kind of topic is that? So, that's what I was saying, that's exactly what I didn't want to talk about, but, well, I got a little offer from my colleague, Magazinović, even though I'm not defending this one at all, and I'd like to file a criminal complaint against the person who wrote this email to him, because I have such e-mails of a variety of nature, various messages. There, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11208	Magazinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11209	In short, any hate speech cannot be justified by another hate speech. Any crime committed anywhere can't be justified by another crime. When we talk about hate speech or crime, there is no point and "but", there is a point, and we can talk about everything individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11210	Thank you. We're out of logs, moving to point 14, point 69 Ad. 14. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2019, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-2070/21 of 15. 11. 2021. The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent. The Commission delivered its opinion, accepted the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2020, applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-2175/21 of 13. 12. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11217	Just a few sentences to encourage MPs to adopt this initiative. It is, in fact, an obligation for BiH to comply with this law with international standards. The law has not yet been harmonised even though it was in the Council of Ministers' procedure, certain institutions have not agreed, although the law is offered in accordance with international standards. Here, we see and here the Commission for European Integration has not supported it, so we don't know why, why and how, but that we need to have this law that is in line with international standards because we see so far that according to certain issues, the Agency has applied selectively and differently, in particular, here when it comes to the examination of diplomas, so let's say at lower levels like the Federation or some cantons, absolutely not reacting, and when it comes to my initiative at the state level or initiative in Canton Sarajevo, let's say that it is not in line with the law. So, here, I just wanted to explain what the problem is and that we should have as many laws as possible in line with European Union standards and, yes, that's why I called to encourage Members to adopt this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11218	Thank you very much. We're out of logs. We're moving to point 20, Ad. 20. Consideration of the Parliament's Damir Arnaut initiative, which is asked by the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to initiate the procedure for amending the driver's license Regulation (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, number 9/19), with the aim of abolishing Article 24 which regulates the obligation to replace the driver's license for persons changing their residence, issue: 01-50-1224/22 of 9. 2. 2022. The House College has appointed the Commission for Transport and Communications as competent. The Commission delivered its opinion and adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Representative Arnaut, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11220	Thank you, Chairman. So, here's the deal. It is an initiative required by the Ministry of Transport and Communications to amend the driver's license Regulation which is currently defined that the person who changes residence is in addition to the change of ID card and change of the CIPS register, mandatory and change the driver's license, that card, which costs 60 KM. The driver's licenses are usually valid for 10 years. There are situations where after a year, after issuing the driver's license, people are forced to pay 60 KM to get a new driver's license and I am proud to launch this initiative at the request of citizens. He sent me an e-mail, pointed out this problem, I started an initiative. I am also very pleased that, in addition to the Commission's positive position, the representative of the Ministry of Transport and Communications who was present at the Commission's session agreed with this initiative, he said that the Ministry has also supported this for the second time that the Ministry of Transport and Communications has given a positive opinion on my initiatives concerning these problems, which are 72 really related to the problems that citizens face on a daily basis, and I, uh, want to praise the Ministry's approach to these issues. They obviously recognized that there were problems and they were willing to change them which was not always the case before, so I really want to commend the Ministry of Transport's approach. So, a simple one initiative, changing, is asked by the Ministry to change its rules, the Ministry is willing to do so and I urge my colleagues to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11221	Thank you very much. We don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 21, Ad. 21. The conclusion reads: "The House of Representatives asks the House of Nations to adopt the bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, and at the same time to end the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement", Proposers: MPs Predrag Kojović, Denis Zvizdić, Nermin Nikšić, jasmin Emrić, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Aida Baručija, Nada Mladina, Zukan Helez and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić, issue: 01-50-1-377/22 of 9. 3. 2022. We have placed this point in today's session, and we will be able to plead on the conclusion if the proposed legislation is adopted. I'm opening a debate about it. No Niko's answering, I'm closing the debate. And we move to the final point, 22, Ad. 22. The conclusion reads: "The House of Representatives informs the European Union Delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina that the House of Representatives adopted the bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, after adopting earlier the Proposed Law on Public Procurement, that it has forwarded them to the House of Peoples with an emergency procedure request, and that it asks the European Union institutions to approve the candidate status for membership in the European Union," Proponents Predrag Kojović, Denis Zvizdić, Nermin Nikšić, jasmin Emrić, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Aida Baručija, Nada Mladina, Zukan Helez and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, number: 0150-37-37-7, which reads: 3. 2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11224	I thank the chairman. Well, you gave me the answer now, I was about to ask -- how do we know the laws would be passed if they weren't in this text that you read then -- and you gave me the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-09-0.u11225	Thank you. So we've exhausted all the agenda points of today's session. We're left with a vote. It's 10 to 7. Is 7 and 15 okay? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. I'll see you at seven and 15 at the vote. [[PAUZA]]
