ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11283	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we work, if you're okay with me opening the 28th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which begins with an anthem. Ladies and gentlemen of today's session, the absence was justified by MP Dženan Đonlagić, we note that another number of MPs is missing, but have not reported their absence. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] When it comes to guests, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zoran Tegelti, informed him that he would not be able to attend the session. In accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, ask MPs questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Šemsudin Mehmedović to the minister of justice, Nikola Lovrinović, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mirko Šarović, the Zukan of the Council of Ministers, Denis Zvizdić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Damir Arnaut Foreign Ministers and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, chairman of the Council of Ministers. These announcements were submitted to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to the member of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Article 168. I remind you that we have a direct TV transmission in accordance with Article 167. Rules of Procedure for this agenda item. I give the word to Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, two minutes of question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11284	Thank you, gentlemen chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, my question concerns the Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that is to say, have all formal and legal assumptions been made that the rulings of international criminal courts that have become law enforcement are recorded in the criminal record in BiH? I don't think there's a need to explain it, but in writing, I delivered the Minister and the Reason, but if we keep in mind that those who are sentenced to years of imprisonment and who have served sentences in prisons all over Europe and the world, they can appear today as equal candidates for any function in the election that follows, that's one thing. And secondly, I am sure that there is an obstacle for those who have been convicted in certain and administrative matters in BiH, so I call on and ask the minister of justice to pay attention, i.e. to inform the 2 public whether they are enrolling in criminal records, if that when it comes, if not for what it is not and when it will be over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11285	Thank you. Answer sir, Minister Grubeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11286	Dear President, distinguished members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, respected media. The act of the Office of the European Union Special Representative in BiH has asked the BiH Ministry of Justice to initiate the process of entering and keeping criminal data from powerful verdicts for persons born in BiH and BiH citizens who have been issued by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for whom I will use the International Court of Justice in further exposure. Following the adoption of that act, necessary analyses have been carried out and it has been found undeniable that there is currently a legal obstacle to resolving this issue, firstly because the International Court's Rules of Procedure, nor the Mechanism, nor other normative acts of this body define this issue, and neither the relevant laws in BiH define the question of who should take action to obtain final judgments from the International Court of Justice or the Mechanism in order for the data from it to be entered into the criminal record. The Council of Ministers, after considering the information, concluded at its meeting on 02.06.2020 that the Ministry of Justice is tasked with proposing, with the competent institutions of BiH, entity and Brcko District, the correct definition of the rights and obligations to address this issue and the preparation of the text of the agreement, i.e. a memorandum on the issues of surrender and the taking of judgments by the International Criminal Court to regulate the transfer and take of data from the condemning judgments of the court, which reads on BiH-born citizens and persons for recording in BiH's criminal record. The working group was formed on the basis of the Council of Ministers' conclusions by the Minister of Justice, held several meetings and prepared a memorandum proposal to specify the form, an annex of the memorandum with the information needed to enter the Mechanism into the form, and on the basis of which the competent authorities in BiH, in accordance with their regulations, would enter data into criminal records in the place of birth of convicted persons. Following the agreement of the text by the members of the working group, the text of this important document will be submitted to the Register of the Mechanism for Consent, i.e. the opinion and any suggestions which would be specific to each proposal. After the publication of the Mechanism's register on the prepared text, this bilateral agreement will, in accordance with the BiH presidency's decision, be delivered to the conclusion procedure. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11287	Thank you. Mr. Mehmedović, commentary. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11288	Thank you very much. Thank you Minister for your response, but when you want to do something not to do then form a task force or commission to deal with it, here, as is, unfortunately, the case with our Council of Ministers who formed this task force that needs to be solved, and it is a very simple solution, you've been contacted, it is only necessary to amend Article 1. The rules on criminal records and the problem solved, but it is obvious that there is no desire, no will to resolve it quickly, given all these more burdensome political problems within BiH. But if that's the solution, here, we'll wait and see, but I'll be free to remind you, if it takes every month, to solve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11289	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Nikola Lovrinović, the issue of the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11290	Good afternoon, nice greeting to my colleagues and colleagues and everyone present in the hall. So, I've announced asking a parliamentary question in oral form to Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers who, as far as I've heard, has apologized that it won't be today, I don't know if he might have put someone in charge, because I've made this very early on notice, so I hope he might have hired someone to answer me. And this is about, in early May, you know that throughout Europe, there is a celebration of Europe's Day, and even of the month, whether, on May 09 and as a representative, but also as a man who is chairman of the Committee on European Integration, I wanted to do little, not to say wake up but to offer, so the Council of Ministers to implement some of the conclusions that we have made long ago, and as regards this day, and dates, and events, so the question is – What is the Council of Ministers of BiH, uh, what decisions have been made to allow for the future marking of Europe's Day? I would like to remind you that at the meeting of 10.06.2021 on the Commission's proposal, which I am leading, in the debate on BiH's status on the European path, we have proposed a conclusion that was made at the time: the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to make within six months, so I speak 10.06.2021, the necessary decisions that would allow the BiH Council of Ministers to mark Europe's Day in the future. I was trying to ask myself if there were any activities, if anything was being prepared, if anything was going to happen, I didn't get any quality information that would suggest that something would be done about it, except for something from the DEI, but I think it would be finally time and order to pay attention to that day in a convenient way, if not in full capacity this time, it would have to happen and I think that these activities would have to be started. So, here, I expect an answer to whether there are any activities, since by then there are 15 more days. I don't know if there's anyone today, uh, scheduled to give me an answer, if there isn't, here, then I'll suggest something to after that. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11291	There is no Council of Ministers chairman, no response.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11292	Is there anyone outside the Council of Ministers to give? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11293	Niko one's answering.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11294	Okay, well, if there isn't, then, I, uh, there's nothing left to do but, of course, get a written answer to this for the next session. But let's go to the side of the answer that I'm going to get, rather than wish this my question today of the offer of fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, the chairman and others, to do something to prepare a certain event, a convenient event to mark Europe's Day which, I said, is early May of the month. I hope they do something, and they have resources and agencies and ministries and this DEI at the end, so here's what I expect to happen and expect, of course, a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11295	Thank you. The next MP, Mirko Šarović, is not there, should be asked by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, is not there either. The word has been made by MP Zukan Helez, the question is for the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11296	Thank you. Dear Chairman and Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the opportunity to say that I am very pleased, Mr Radmanović, that you have returned to BiH's institutions after those hard positions, to build this country together, because we do not have others. And this particular question that I'm going to ask, uh, is being touched by the unhappiness and the departure of people from this country. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, and concerns the BiH census next year. So in 2023, it ends ten years from the census, and in every country in the world at the beginning of every new decade, the first year of the new decade, the census is held. There's a lot of reasons why I'm setting this up, and it's just a demographic wasteland in BiH, and I'm just going to take a few facts out. According to the 1991 census. BiH had 4.4 million people, according to the 2013 letter, so twenty-three years later, BiH had 3 million and 550,000 inhabitants. So, during this period of war and the post-war period, 18 years after the war was restored, some 850,000 people were lost. However, estimates of these services dealing with statistics, statistical institutions, in the last ten years since the census to date in Republika Srpska are estimated to live only between 700 and 800,000 people, in the Federation between a million and a half and a million and seven hundred thousand, all together in BiH today saying that it lives between 2 million and 2.5 million people. So, this government, this 5-term coalition, has managed to drive BiH citizens out of the country more than a million, than all the war events and all the period after the country's 18-year renewal. I will only list a few more cities where there is a real demographic wasteland, where there is a very, very negative natural growth, and where there is an exodus of the population outside BiH, it is Tomislavgrad, Ljubinje, Kalinovik, Han Pijesak, Rudo etc. You could name it. So there are no municipalities in BiH that have a positive rate of natural growth, which means that in all municipalities more people die or leave these municipalities than new children are born in these municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11297	Thank you. There is no Chairmanial Council of Ministers. Next question, MP Mr. Denis Zvizdić, also chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11298	Thank you very much. I welcome all present and respected MPs and MPs. My question concerns BiH's accession to the World Trade Organisation, I don't think it is necessary to particularly explain the importance and importance of BiH's presence to this extremely important organisation, the World Trade Organisation, namely the numerous benefits that BiH would have in the economy sector, especially in terms of easier access to foreign markets under equal conditions. Bosnia and Herzegovina is now ahead of other countries when we talk about joining the World Trade Organisation. In the previous Council of Ministers' mandate, a very important and quality progress and progress has been made, negotiations have been completed, bilateral negotiations with almost all other countries with which the necessary consensus was to be reached and negotiations completed and protocols signed, and now it is only a few more steps for BiH to finally become a member of this important organisation, and a key decision on the quality of oil and liquid fuels, which is still on the agenda today. So here I call on MPs today to adopt an initiative that would finally adopt a decision on the quality of oil and liquid fuels and satisfy this last key condition for BiH to join the World Trade Organisation. Since I see that there is no Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman, that I do not go out again, if no one is in charge of the Council of Ministers to answer this question then I ask that it be delivered to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11299	Thank you. The next question is People's MP Damir Arnaut to the foreign minister before Mr Arnaut gets his word, just to read the notice we got now that the session started. The announcement is by Mrs Biser Turković – I would like to inform you that I will not be able to attend the 28th session of the House of Representatives because of previous commitments and official travel to the United States. Mr. Arnaut, you have your word. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11300	Thank you, Chairman. To conclude that Mrs. Turković attended a meeting of the House of Representatives only one time, when she was appointed, and the second time she entered this hall when a joint session was held – poslanik and delegates asked the Council of Ministers to answer, and then she left earlier, and this was the first time that Dom had received written notice that she would not come. I saw in the media yesterday that she had a meeting with a congressman one or a senator, so we'll see all the effects of her journey, if any, when she gets back. In any case, my question referred to a relationship, i.e. moves taken by the foreign ministry towards the Russian Federation due to aggression in Ukraine, I did not expect to get some long answer because I do not see from the funds of public information that the minister has taken any steps towards this issue, including according to the country's diplomats, the Russian Federation in BiH who may be dealing with activities that are not in line with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. It is, of course, fully in line with Minister Turković's statement -- that Russia, I quote, is a happy country because it has Sergej Lavrov as foreign minister. I have not yet seen that Mrs. Turković has explained her views or, which would indeed be appropriate, she has fenced herself from them and I expect an answer in writing, and I also expect Mrs. Turković's dignity to appear before the dom who named her at least once again in this term, therefore, after that appointment of hers never again appeared before the House itself. As I've already said, I expect an answer in writing and I'm asking the College to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11301	Thank you. The word is by Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, also the issue of the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11302	Well, here I am truly sorry that we are very rarely honored by the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who, I think, always has obligations when the sessions of this House are. My question concerns the fact that I did not receive a written answer to the parliamentary question – Who is finally competent to remove illegally placed tables and other symbols and markings at the border crossings of BiH against the Law on Border Control? So my activity about this is going on, here, for almost a year, because it started on 17th, 2021, and unfortunately in our country, after all, here's a year of activity we don't know and it's undetermined which institution it is whose obligation it is to do so. So, the Ministry of Communications and Transport appeared to be incompetent, the Department of Direct Taxation, the Ministry of Security also provided the answer that the law and the regulation did not set it exactly, and here, to put it this way, at the end of the ballad, we don't know who would remove illegal tables and other symbols, I emphasize, flags etc. from border crossings, which are contrary to the Border Control Act. We see that this activity continues and that absolutely no one is referring to this Law, and I would really ask that a written reply be sent to me as soon as possible, because then the Council of Ministers will probably know who is in charge, since 7 of the three institutions mentioned in the Law on Border Control, so these two ministries and the Directorate for Direct Taxation have been declared incompetent.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11303	Thank you. Mr. Šarović came, although we have already been through this, that period when he should ask a question, but if you are ready, Mr. Šarović, for this matter, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you can now have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11304	Thank you, Chairman, and I apologize for the delay. My question is verbally the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and it concerns the current crisis in particular, meaning not only the pandemic, but also the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, and we have the fact that inflation is mart-mart this year and last year almost 10% or 9.1% as far as I know, that at a monthly level more than 2.5%, that basic provisions of life have been significantly collected, that the living standard of the population has been compromised and my question of the Council of Ministers – What has the Council of Ministers taken, what economic and other measures has taken from its jurisdiction to reduce the effects of the crisis, which is globally not only Bosnian hergic, when it has discussed the Council of Ministers, what measures has contributed, and what will these measures, and what will these measures and on what economic, would I say, and the living flows and standards of the population? If, of course, he can answer now, if not, then a written reply is delivered. Here, Madam Chairman, thank you, and once again, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11305	Thank you. There were five total questions for the chairman of the Council of Ministers who are not here for legitimate reasons, but we will try to get questions and answers to deliver. We're moving on to the agenda. From previously delivered, the following agenda points have been removed from the previously delivered material: Point 16. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 22 of the discussion of Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's parliamentary initiative, which is imposed on the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that within 90 days, it corrects the price of the fee paid when giving up Bosnian Herzegovina's citizenship and is in line with state fees in the region at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights. Point 5. The request of MP Adil Osmanović to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Public Procurement Act under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. 8 Point 17. Information from the BiH Public TV System Management Board on the consequences of BHRT's financial blockade. They have been amended as follows: point 6. Proposed law supplementing the BiH Criminal Law, the proponent: Mr Denis Zvizdić, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. Point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, MPs: Adil Osmanović, Halid Genjac, Alma Čolo, Safet Softić, Šemsudin Dedić, Nermin Mandra, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Edin Mušić, Edita Đapo, Saša Magazinović, Nermin Nikšić, Zukan Helez, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija, Damir Arnaut, Predrag Kojović and Denis Zvizdić, a shortened procedure with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is also negative. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. In the meantime, we received a written proposal from Mr. Arnaut. Here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11306	Thank you, Chairman. This has already been, was an attempt to include this in an emergency session that wasn't held due to a lack of quorum. Therefore, taking into account the new and completely unfounded practice of the House of Peoples, represented by Dragan Čović and Dušanka Majkić at the previous session, it is necessary that special approval of the House of Representatives be given to the MP who was the legislator of the Law in the House of Representatives, when the House of Representatives adopts that law and sends it to the House of Peoples for adoption, so that he can only be present as a proposing if it is explicitly the House for that authority. This was not the case in the previous meeting, I, as a proposaler at the House of Representatives, lifted white bread, abolished fees for commission work, introduced the right of the ambulance to the vehicles of politicians escorted, etc. etc. And in every individual situation, I have no problem with the House of Peoples showing up as a proposing and no one has challenged it. Mr. Čović, therefore, completely unfounded, not referring to any specific member of the Rules of Procedure, did so in the last session of the House of Nations. Mr. Bosić, who was chairman of the House of Representatives in the previous meeting, has been very argumentative to point out that he was wrong, however, the railway between HDZ and SNSD in the House of Peoples is such that he does not even give MPs who were legislators to address them. I therefore propose to include the agenda item – House of Representatives' decision: The House of Representatives shall inform the House of People that, before the House of Representatives, it may attend the meetings of the House of Peoples, the committee of the House and the Joint Committees any MP who has been the legislator of a given law in the House of Representatives or another MP appointed by the House of Representatives. This only affirms the long-standing practice in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and removes the self-will of Mr Čović shown at last regular session of the House of Peoples. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11307	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please. Please include Mr. Lovrinović and exclude Mr. Arnaut. Okay, okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11308	Yes, thank you. Mr. Chairman, therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I have come here to try one way to conclude that, therefore, I am creating one assumption about one of our future work on respecting the Rules of Procedure, and it concerns points concerning the second round of voting. In fact, we have today from the 32nd point until the 88nd round of voting, so you've now found a name for these points, before it was reports, and I can say that I prefer this title, so you know what it's about. However, in earlier practice, we received written reports from the College when we discuss in the second round, or we decide in the second round of voting on points that did not receive a sufficient number of votes in the first round of voting. Unfortunately, before one or two sessions, Mr. Zvizdić introduced a new practice in which he did not deliver written reports, therefore, from the College on this, about trying to agree, therefore, on the second round of voting. Come on, it's not a problem when there's no deal, so when there's no deal, it's usually going to be in the second round of voting, but how the MPs will know that if the College agreed on a point, then there would have to be a written report, in any case, I prefer there's a written report. Well, I don't know how to report to the 32nd point or any other one behind, because there's no possibility of discussing those points since we've just finished voting, if I'm good with the Rules of Procedure, so I've come to the agenda and I suggest one conclusion which would, in some way, build a Rules of Procedure or at least introduce us some sort of order in the conduct of this written report, and the conclusion could be voted at, say, 32nd points... in the agenda when the session is finally voted. The conclusion would be: The commission of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives Committee is in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives must provide a written report on the agreement to adopt a agenda item for which there were insufficient votes from the entity during the first round of voting and before voting in the second round. So, I propose that conclusion if it can be, and I think it is difficult for the agenda, but at the 32nd point, it can be tried to adopt as a conclusion, therefore, in order to sort of supplement the ambiguity in the Rules of Procedure which currently exists on the need to deliver a written or non-delivery report from the College after the vote in the first round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11309	Thank you. I have a proposal for Mr. Lovrinović to make it easier for us today's work, to have this proposal sent to the College, so we will consider it at the next session or put it as a point or inform what we have done, that we do not burden today's agenda with this conclusion, if you agree. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11310	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11311	Thank you. We only have one proposal to supplement, no more reports, it's a motion for a decision read just now by Mr. Damir Arnaut and you've got and we're pleading on him. Therefore, it is necessary to prepare for a vote on a proposal to supplement the agenda by a decision proposed by Mr Arnaut. Of the 37 present – 21 for, versus 7, abstentioned 9. The general majority has, the entity majority doesn't. [[/consultations of the College.]] Okay, we'll leave for the second round for the next session. Thank you. I find that we have a agenda in front of us that has been established by the Expansive College, which has not even been observed, and I believe, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it has been adopted. The agenda is next. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11315	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. I have an observation at the 27th regular session, item 3 where the Democratic Front Club voted against, but in a copy of the vote on this agenda point, it is seen that under my name is "yes", so I would like this to change. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11316	Thank you. Mr. Niko Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11317	Thank you. So I have a comment on the 27th session, I don't know which page, which page I'm not numbered here, so says the sentence – Nikola Lovrinović under this point had an observation that was not related to the content of the minutes. Therefore, I propose that the following text be deleted and replaced by the following text, which refers to the obligation of the College of the House of Representatives to submit a written report on the agreement for agenda points which did not have a sufficient number of votes from the entity to accept them in the first round of voting. So, it would say then, the draft text would read – Nikola Lovrinović under this point had observations, and then this next thing I said, and it refers to so. I think you're this, if this was recorded in tone, and this is going to be able to, uh, install it in the record, so this doesn't sound ugly to me, which isn't bound to me, as if it was a lame story, the truth wasn't tied to the dot itself, but it was a story, is it, so I suggest that it be complemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11318	Thank you. No more reports, it's about mistakes that can be corrected, because technically, although they change the essence, I suggest we do it in the next report and notify the House as a whole. Thank you. I'm closing point one. Point two, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received In accordance with Article 170. The Rules of Procedures to this session and initiatives in writing asked MPs: Nermin Nikšić three questions; Borjan Krišto five questions; Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic asked four questions, three initiatives and asked for an emergency on which no questions were provided; Nikola Lovrinović two questions; Damir Arnaut three questions; Saša Magazinović six questions; Aida Baručija asked 14 questions, and requested a reference to the urgency for questions to which no answer was provided; Edin Mušić two questions; Branislav Borenović two questions; Edita Đapo and Branislav Borenović asked one question; MPs: Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Edita Đapo, Dženan Đonlagić, jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Šemsudin Mehmedović also addressed Doletiv. To this session, the following questions were answered: Aida Baručija's questions were delivered two answers; Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's question was delivered two answers, Borjana Krišto question was delivered four answers; Nermin Nikšić's two 20 answers; Damir Arnaut's two answers; one answer was submitted to Nikola Lovrinović and Branislav Borenović's question. Any comments on the answers received? Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11320	My comment refers to the response, in fact to the failure to respond from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, stating that the answer was delivered to the Council of Ministers Secretariat and that the answer was received, beware, in 07.12.2021, and until today, therefore, the answer was not discussed at the Council of Ministers' meeting. This is about an eclectic violation of the human right to the work of Mrs Altumbabić Zineta, which I have already spoken of in front of this House and which has led over 20 years of battle to resolve its working status. So here we are witnessing as much as we have actually forgotten, conditionally speaking, on a small man whose rights have been violated, although I believe that every citizen and citizen of BiH who fights for their rights are great citizens and citizens, so is Mrs. Zineta. And with, I wouldn't, I don't really know how to call this, this is an explanation why I didn't get an answer, but the answer that was attached to the Council of Ministers was delivered by the Ministry of Communications and Transport, and I'm once again amazed by the haughtiness and in fact by avoiding the topic of which and the answer to the tax question, which is – Why didn't the Ministry of Communications and Transport crash at the conclusion of the Council of Ministers, which is that the model of resolving the working status of Altumbabić Zinete? Therefore, that conclusion was reached by the Council of Ministers and never received an answer, i.e. no model was given to resolve its working status. What I would also like to point out is that in this attached response, which has not yet been discussed by the Council of Ministers, I have been given all possible reasons, but no answer has been given as to why the model was not given. Secondly, the rulings from some earlier periods are mentioned, and there is no mention of the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling that the executive procedure must be terminated when it comes to Mrs Zineta's working status. So, I am here asking for a decident response – why is there no model for resolving working status after the decision of the Council of Ministers, which was reached on the basis of the request of the Commission, the Joint Commission on Human Rights and why is the Constitutional Court's decision not being discussed and why is it not resolved on the working status of Mrs Altumbabić? So here in this case even in her address Mrs. Altumbabić tried to find some kind of agreement with the Ministry of Human Rights, she was also ready for certain alignments, etc. However, this is indeed, indeed, I think, one of the precedents to fight for working status for more than twenty years, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, and it is not followed again by the commission, nor by the Council of Ministers' conclusion. So I demand that my question be answered decadently – why is it that, at the conclusion of the Council of Ministers, no, why no model is given to resolve this issue and why the Constitutional Court's ruling, which is not mentioned at all in this response, and which was the reason for what we have done so far, begins with the decision of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the conclusion of the Council of Ministers, etc.? So, in 21.12.2020, the lady addressed the Joint Commission on Human Rights, meaning over two years the Council of Ministers has been silent. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11321	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nermin Nikšić, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've received answers from both banking agencies, and as far as selling Sberbanka is concerned, I'd like to thank you for the answer, I'm sure the others will come. In the meantime, I got word from the ASA Bank administration and explained their position, of course my question had nothing to do with them or the New Bank... even then I said that when the sale came, I was glad to strengthen the domestic banking sector. Now, I'd like to comment on some answers from both agencies. Both agencies are mainly calling for a law allowing them to sell banks in order to preserve the stability of the sector without the knowledge and approval of the owner or any third party. However, as said, sales are made under market conditions, taking into account the equal treatment of all interested parties and there is a dispute. The federal agency mentions a conversation with 12 banking groups, and the Republika Srpska Agency is not that. I'd like to see these other offers in order to ensure transparency. And here I can understand that it also belongs to some domain of business secrets, but it cannot be inaccessible to the aberrations that are responsible for examining the transparency and legality of the whole process, if it is already not available to the public and to the representatives. So, if these data cannot be made available to the public or at least to us MPs, then I call and expect them to check and examine the competent agencies. The Federal Agency's reply states that, in addition to the price itself, the Agency took into account other parameters that would ensure the continuity of investment in the bank and improve its business. Experts who contacted me about this sale claim that this is impossible in this case, but let them follow the Agency on the occasion, both of which, in the realisation of the contract, i.e. the competent authorities that need to control the legality of the work of everyone, including the banking agency. The governments, of course, did not respond, so I am interested – Was the Federation Government involved in this process and what did they do about the adoption of Sberbanka by the Union Bank? The agency said the government knew everything, the Union Bank had the opportunity like everyone else, and then immediately there are restrictions that the Union Bank's only bank seems to have had to take care of, and it concerns investment in the financial sector and acquisition of ownership shares in other banks. The European Union's recommendations are only recommendations, not something binding that we can see for example from the acquisition of Sberbank by state banks in Croatia and Slovenia. It is not likely that EU members do not make their recommendations binding, and that they are binding on us. Of course, I didn't think that the money from the sale of bonds was used for the purchase, but the answer is that the sale of bonds was initiated earlier, so the buyer could offer peacefully the price which, in some cases, corresponds to the amount of bond sales received. In the end, we know that the New Bank bought Sberbank in Banja Luka, we learned that in the Federation the buyer of ASA Finance, not the ASA Bank, and that ASA Finance and ASA Bank are different business entities and there are clear restrictions on the relationship between these entities. And to the very end, there is no answer and I insist on it, no agency has answered about the possible consequences in the case of the claim of previous owners, who, in that case, assumes the responsibility of the state or new owners. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11323	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did get one answer, and I'm still waiting for a few answers, not to repeat them here and not to say it, and the answer to the question I got is from the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Naima, in 28.01., while negotiations were held in Neum or talks in Neum about the Electoral Law, I accidentally witnessed one show on FACE TV where Mr. Vojim Mijatović and I had experienced, I mean stress, and I wasn't such a cowardly man, as the man performed on that show, what he said and what he said, so, without being interrupted. Some of the colleagues sitting here with us were on that show, uh, while, therefore, it lasted, it was such an outburst of anger, hatred, to me, therefore, and all the inappropriate treatment of the Penal Code and I have nothing left but to ask the Prosecutor's Office what kind of legal consequences they have for that kind of behavior. And I thank the BiH Prosecutor's Office who received my inquiry, so the question and they said that, therefore, they did not do anything because, I understand, they did not follow, have no information until they received it eventually from me and from someone else, but they replied that a criminal record was ordered to establish all relevant facts and circumstances in connection with that event, and I will be informed of the way the case ended after the prosecutor has taken the final prosecutor's decision. So, I thank the D.A. for the relatively quick answer and I expect, therefore, that I will get, as they promised me, the final answer that will happen with this case, but I really, really don't know how to show it, here, to say the simplest and least regret of such one, such an expression in one show while they were talking down there, yes, I don't know which one of you was able to follow, if it wasn't some look at 28.01.2021 how the gentleman, so also a colleague, so if I don't cheat in one of the county, amazingly, so what kind of excuses he allowed himself and what he said at the ether at that point and how he acted on the show that I can't believe that it happened at all. I thank the D.A.'s office one more time, and I expect answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11325	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11326	Thank you, fellow chairman. A warm welcome to all colleagues and colleagues of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, all respected members of the Council of Ministers and all those present. As far as my question is concerned, it is actually about our daily testimony and the sudden rise in prices, so we can say that lately prices have actually been wild, not only in terms of basic life supplies and oil derivatives, but in fact others, other products and services, but also in view of the fact that prices of certain products in the last 23 years have increased over 50% and even up to 100%, I have asked the Ombudsman's institution for the protection of consumers in BiH and the Federal Office for Inspection Affairs. My questions were about whether there was an abuse by economic operators, so when prices and margins were formed, were there complaints from citizens, what were the citizens' complaints and what did these institutions actually do on these issues to ultimately protect the end-user in BiH? What I can say, first of all, is that I have received a reply from both institutions and I thank you for the answers they sent, and it is evident from these answers that the institutions have done in the past year, or until this moment, until I have received an answer somewhere around 1041 complaints in the last year and in this, including complaints from the seekers, that the price increase, from this answer, is not only caused by changes in the market but by a large part of the desire or will of traders to achieve an extra margin. Of course, because of the irregularities identified by the institutions, they have also issued criminal orders, which will, of course, be subject to review in court proceedings if, of course, business entities decide and think they are not criminally responsible. But what I'm saying is, since this is an important issue and concerns all those who are in this difficult situation at this time, I would like to say that the Federal Department of Investigation Affairs, as well as the Institute of Protection, of course, are working within their responsibilities, but from this place I would like to call on all other competent institutions to make a maximum effort and, of course, to comply with their legislative capacity to protect the final contractor, who is actually paying the highest price of these disturbances on the market right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11327	Thank you. Mr Branislav Borenović arrived and applied for a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11328	Thank you. Here, I want to take this opportunity to make one comment on the parliamentary question that I have asked, which I think is more urgent than perhaps any other question that these parliaments have been discussing for years. At the end of March this year, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Staša Košarac of the Council of Ministers, who is so invisible that we forgot what these people look like, announced a pompous import of 30,000 tonnes of mineral fertilizer into BiH from Turkey, 25 thousand tonnes of KAN and 5,000 tonnes of NPK fertilizer. As a man and as an MP, I think and all of us here need to support this initiative and consider it precious to our agriculture and warlords especially, if this crisis in the world is particularly manifested in the production and price of mineral fertilizer. Aware of the fact that warlords and farmers today pay almost 210, 220 marks per meter of fertilizer, that's 100 kg of fertilizer, and that a year ago that price was four times smaller, about 50 marks per 100 kilograms. Trained by a very poor experience of obtaining vaccines directed by this invisible... Council of Ministers, please ask for information on specific deadlines for the supply of mineral fertilisers, given that spring seed is largely in progress and that the use of mineral fertilisers has its dynamic and optimal storage period. I think it is very important that the farmers and the public inform about the deadlines for the delivery of this fertilizer, or whether the agreement covered this year's sowing or perhaps the Council of Ministers meant next year. Since it has been so pompously announced that as far as I understand it, it should have been within 24 days in BiH. More than a month has passed, no sign of the Council of Ministers' announcement that 30,000 tonnes of fertilizer from Turkey to BiH will come. And I repeat, we're witnessing that the price of every day is getting more and more wild or they've reached some record levels and they're not falling at all. Today it is, i.e. Before Easter, the price of flour, the bag of flour was almost 40 KM, oil was over five converting marks, the price of fuel was about three or slightly more than three converting marks, and thanks to this government, primarily to the people of the SNSD, who destroyed the excise duty on fuel and thus prevented the fuel from paying for almost 50 fening for a longer period of time. I must say that I am very unhappy that the Council of Ministers ignores the answer, not giving an answer to such important questions and questions, and by the day of today I have not yet received, the chairman, the answer to the question when this promise, which was finally made more than a month ago, concerning 30,000 tonnes of mineral fertilizer, which on 28 March 2022, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Staša Košarac announced that without any customs duties in line with the contracts that exist with Turkey, BiH will be available. I repeat, there is no answer, there is no information, all of it goes into some kind of oblivion and it happens not only with this promise, but with a number of other promises of current authorities that do almost nothing to help citizens in such a difficult economic and every other time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11329	Thank you. No more comments reported, closing point 2. Point three, Ad. 3. The request of MP Mirjana Marinković Lepić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-505/22 of 31.03.2022. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion. Before I open a hearing in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, and taking care of the extensive agenda, I'm cutting the debate short for five minutes. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11331	Well, here, let me just explain about the emergency procedure, and of course I reserve the right to further debate on this law. In fact, this Law meets all the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure regarding an emergency procedure, which is that it is indeed a high degree of urgency, since we are on the verge of an annual period in which we are really experiencing fires and other elemental disasters. And secondly, it is, therefore, simple and therefore meets all the conditions for an emergency procedure. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11332	Thank you. There are no reports. We're pleading for an emergency procedure. 32 present – for 18, against 11, abstention 3. The general majority has, there is no entity majority. We'll get along later. There's no Mrs. Krišto. We're approaching the short-term vote... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, it's not adopted, we have a second round of voting. I'm sorry, Mrs. Marinković, so no, she can't. I'm finishing point 3. Point four, Ad. 4. MP Nikola Lovrinović's request to consider the proposal for a law on the entry of membership to the constituent people, the national minority and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-529/22 of 05.04.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in front of you, colleagues and colleagues, one proposal, which a colleague Marinković just said, is simple with a few articles, which, though, I must admit, solves one serious matter, which, in my opinion, has not been solved for years. So these are issues that burden us and may not be regulated by the Dayton Peace Agreement itself. In fact, you saw today at the introduction to the agenda, when I was talking about the items delivered from the College when in the first round not some item of the agenda passed, and then, therefore, the lack of a precise provision in the Rules of Procedure leads to us or individuals from us, depending on what they behave in the Parliamentary Assembly, taking the right to interpret or conduct a session as they will, it is only an example. So a lot of questions that aren't regulated until the end or drawn, which is said to us, and even when they're drawn they're challenging, under the allegation, between us problems, this, and doubtless, can't be solved sometimes, and let alone when they're not exactly expressed enough then just do whatever anyone really wants. When it comes to this subject, which I have proposed under the urgent procedure, I must say, therefore, that I am in particular in this mandate, and may have had to resolve this before, it may not have been necessary for me to wait and give a chance, therefore, to make a possible agreement on amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law which would have resolved the question of legitimate representation and perhaps in some way resolved this issue, even though it would not have resolved it again, because this Law therefore provides for two possible situations in which these data are being proposed in the Law, which is in the employment and deployment of BiH institutions and therefore in the participation of election lists in the electoral process. My colleagues from the club have had and have patience now, and here you see these two days that are happening, therefore, with the proposals of the election, the amendments to the election law, that I too have had the chance to have patience for such a thing as waiting for Godoa, but I seem to be the first to give in and I no longer have the patience to wait for it. I have no patience because, therefore, we are directly threatened by those who need it the least, that we will be taken from the House of the Peoples. So these are situations which, in particular, I prefer that part of this Law relating to participation in the electoral process, that, therefore, it is said there, in the sentences of certain colleagues and representatives and envoys, we will be kidnapped by the House of Peoples, that we will be punished. Therefore, there is no point in any more inaccuracies that are in the Electoral Law, or even in the Constitution, so that they are abused, especially after 2000, when the Election Law is imposed and certain amendments to the Constitution are imposed. Therefore, I, therefore, propose and only retain myself, Mr. Chairman, right, I am now saying this as a legislator of the Law, that later I may participate in the debate, if it is, since it is an emergency procedure, because of all of this, and because of the upcoming opportunity to discuss it and to go into the electoral process, that we would still come to the situation that this fact is no longer being abused, so I was, therefore, personally, no, no, it is not the club, to propose this Law to solve this matter and to at least partially prevent abuses when it comes to a national plea when it is, therefore, a national declaration in the process, therefore, an electoral process, or participation on election lists. So that's why I'm proposing an emergency procedure, it's all on a voluntary basis, as you can see, it's regulated for these two situations that I've cited, there's no reason for the bile that, uh, which, in public has spilled so much, but now I'm not talking about it, which may have been encouraged by some colleagues sitting here unnecessarily. So, this is all something that is already being implemented in both entities and other situations, but here I suggest that this be resolved once, and by an urgent procedure, primarily because of this part concerning the electoral process, not because of the second part when it comes to deployment and employment in BiH institutions. I hope we have an understanding, a legal solution, and that we don't leave the possibility of this being misused anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11336	Thank you. I'm sure all MPs know the Rules of Procedure well, but I am obliged to remind you that we are talking about an emergency procedure, not the content of the law. Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11337	Thank you. I'm not going to talk about the essence of the law because we don't know yet whether an emergency procedure will go through, but I'm going to talk about that the motioner didn't explain why he proposed a separate law, and it doesn't complement existing laws to eventually introduce someone's obligation to make an ethnic statement in a personal document. I remember two cases where the proposal of one colleague Arnaut to sign in on a driver's license whether or not a donor is an organ donor, and other initiative fellow Member Nermina Kapetanović 27 from the SDA, it seems to me, in a mandate previously which had the support of the Red Cross to sign the blood type of driver's license into the documents, that they were treated and both have a very human character and need, were treated appropriately by the political party who today proposes to insert into our documents an ethnic commitment as a mandatory element. I think, first of all, since we're talking about urgency, that it's not urgent, and as far as I'm concerned, that when technology wasn't so advanced, which were tapes that were worn on the shoulder to mark people who belonged to a certain ethnic group in different not-so-sense circumstances, today it's done in a more technologically modern way, but essentially the same way, so that the chip that's in the ID card is listed, or puts that tape that used to be on the shoulder. So, not only is this, as far as we're concerned in the SDP, not necessarily, but it's completely in value, unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11338	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11339	I will, of course, relate to my colleagues' discussion. In fact, there is absolutely no need to pass any special law on this, and I don't think this law meets the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure when it comes to urgency, so it's not really a high degree of urgency, and it's not that simple and with so few members, that this second condition is fulfilled. We have laws, therefore, that treat both home records and ID cards and citizenship beliefs, etc., so that, if something was desired, amendments and additions to these laws were to be made, and no particular law.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11340	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11341	So, a colleague of Magazinović, therefore, you have read the Law, the data that is sought and suggested is not mandatory, so if you have read it well. So they're not mandatory, and a person who doesn't want to do it doesn't have to plead, so it's going to be registered in the home office, just can't continue to abuse the data anymore. And so these data, the intention of the law, and that would later regulate its sublaws or through the Election Law would regulate the Central Election Commission. So they'd only be used by the authorities, so I didn't say anywhere that this had to be publicly available. The data you compared with that data would be publicly available through documents to be written on. So this is specifically about two procedures, participation in the electoral process and lists and employment and obtaining functions in state authorities and nothing more. So, just a request from the authorities, so those data could be obtained. So they wouldn't be particularly publicly available, I don't know if they could be in any chip or not have to be in any chip. You have seen in one article that says that a person, therefore, who participates in the process of hiring or obtaining a post or on the electoral list, that the bodies carrying out this may request a follow-up check of that data in the home office where the person comes from. Or what he has declared before those bodies can be delivered to the home office that he subsequently enters it and that it cannot be changed in the next 10, means simply 28 is no longer manipulated. Therefore, it would not, necessarily not have to, nor would this law require, fully publicly available information if a person did not want to. So he would be enrolled in the parent books, and the identity card and citizenship is also just a possibility, therefore, that the person entering the data asks to be in all three documents, or to remain only in the home office, in the birth certificate, so nothing more. [[representative is warned on time]] And I've already explained the urgency of Mrs. Lepić, so I think that because of one process ahead of us, which is the electoral process, it would be good to get rid of that matter, at least to partially remove the possible manipulation that is ahead of us and try to stop it once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11342	Wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. I remind you of the time to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11343	We want the chairman, here's a quick one. So it's not mandatory, but you need it for the job and for the election process. So that's what the promoter said, I wouldn't add anything to that anymore. So it's not mandatory, but for the job and for the election process, you need it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, it is. And what does that mean? Who doesn't sign up, no job? This is, come on, here, not to waste time, we all know what this is about, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11345	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11346	Well, I'll try to correct the wrong quote, or a very ugly quote by my colleague Magazinović, who compared this short bill to the white strips we know who was wearing and when he was wearing and in what way. I would say, exactly the other way around, here is the continued belonging of the ethnicity, the nation, trying to prove to be a disgrace and public display of national belongings, and in this way trying to show itself as something that is backward and embarrassing, but the abuse of national belongings, and in accordance with the positive legal regulations in BiH, treats itself as something very reasonable, smart and when it is used in an election process, and it is known where it is used, whether in employment, where the legally defined question of percentage of jobs, not everywhere. Only in the institutions of the state where it is clearly defined by the existing laws of BiH while they are like this. Therefore, this law is not binding, the solutions in this law are not binding, but it is very clear why they are necessary and where they existed and will exist unless such a law exists, and further abuse of national membership. The abuse of national belongings in very 29 clear ways, and I'm here because we're talking about an emergency procedure, I'm not going to further elaborate and quote, it's very clear, and that's why these comparisons that my colleague has made here are embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11347	Wrong quote, Mr. Predrag Kojović. Here you go. _________(?) He gave up. [[no microphone turned on]] He gave up. Regular discussion, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11349	Thank you, Chairman. You see, when it comes to emergency procedures, I also mentioned this Mr. Magazinović, in the emergency procedure he put the bill into the driver's licenses if the person explicitly wants it, the donor status, means to donate the organs and Mr. Lovrinović voted against both emergency procedures and against the bill. The law even eventually passed the House of Representatives, but then HDZ delegates, among other things, brought the law down in the House of Peoples. So, Mr. Lovrinović believes that according to an emergency procedure, donor status cannot be placed on the driver's license and that blood cells can be placed on the ID card. However, there is absolutely no reason for an emergency procedure as far as I am concerned, but especially when it comes to HDZ as a proposing as long as Goran Opsenica sits before the HDZ in the Serbian seat in the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives. So, Goran Opsenica is someone who became a cantonal minister by pleading when the Hrvat took his place in the Federation House of Representatives by pleading as a Srbin. Goran Opsenica came out by the camera and said he didn't do it. Mr. Dragan Čović came out in front of the cameras and said – Goran Opsenica is a Hrvat, but they did not return the place. So, he usurped a HDZ member's place belonging to a Serb people. And nothing would have been disputed if Goran Opsenica had indeed declared himself a Srbin and stood behind it. But Goran Opsenica and Dragan Čović both claim to be a human Hrvat, but they are taking over as members of the Serb people. Therefore, aside from being a terriblely discriminatory law, the fact remains that as long as Goran Opsenica sits there is the last party to have the right to talk about such things. And now, I may be looking for a break, but just now Mr. Magazinović said, we all know what this is all about and sat down. Here I am to allow myself to perhaps finish what it is, but it is clear to everyone that Mr. Lovrinović wants to talk about this six months before the elections, then five months before the elections, then four months before the elections, to dissipate this procedure, so that there is no talk that HDZ has knocked down European laws, that today HDZ has condemned Russia's aggression in Ukraine, etc. My suggestion with my colleagues and, behold, I take it as my right to say, I have already spoken to Mr. Emrić, his idea has even been, let's make this, let's declare today an emergency procedure and bring down the law right now. Don't let Mr. Lovrinović go to the Constitutional Commission with this apartheid law now, and then on one reading here to challenge the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and to return to the Constitutional Legal Commission, because if we break his emergency procedure, he will go to regular procedure and we will continue to talk about this in August. And I want to talk about a lot of 30 more important topics at the next session, including European laws. So, please all colleagues, let's vote for an emergency procedure and let's get him down to law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11350	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Mektić, discussion. Emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11351	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues all. And therefore, without any intention to politicise the proposal of this law because I believe that Mr. Lovrinović had a completely legitimate right to propose this kind of law, but I believe that such a proposal should be observed on the one hand. That's why I personally don't think we should support this emergency procedure, and I'm going to state the reasons why. I'm not handling any political motives, nor that it's because of the election, because of employment, etc., but that it's a personal or personal card, however you like, a public document to determine the identity of a person or person. And it exclusively serves to determine the identity of a person and never, as far as I can remember, and I don't know before, 50, 60 years ago, has served for anything else. And the ID card must and should contain only data and characteristics on which the identity or identity of persons can be established, and it is precisely prescribed that the identity of persons is proven. It is, then, also has, therefore, the power of the identification document and what is taken into account as a characteristic of proof of identity. Well, that could be recognition, so sometimes it could be witnesses, public justice, etc., not to mention. So it's even said that an identity can be proven by another public ID that's provided with a photo, which can be used to say that it can be both a driver's license and a passport. Then in such situations, if we introduce ethnicity as a feature of proof of identity, every public right, uh, then it would have to be entered. I'm just afraid that with this, we don't turn in any direction and that in identification documents in this case, we don't go and we don't start adding IDs, I don't know what. Let's look at it as an identification document that proves the identity of a person, and does not contain any other documents that do not serve at all to prove their identity, but if there is an intention for such a thing, then find some other way, as Mr Lovrinović spoke of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11352	Thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about emergency procedures, but here we all got a little bit into the measure of the law, and I think that even if an emergency procedure was not accepted, and the law was released into the regular procedure, so that it couldn't essentially be improved in the regular procedure. I find this law contrary to Article 8. European Conventions on Human Rights guaranteeing the right to private and family life, home and correspondence, as personal data belong to the segment of Article 8. 31 The European Convention on Personal Data and the Protection of Personal Data is fundamentally important for the exercise of the right to the private life of each individual. In particular, data on ethnic origin have a category of particularly sensitive data under the 1981 European Convention on Data Protection. In order to process personal data, it is necessary that three cumulative conditions are met, that it is explicitly prescribed by law, which in this case Mr Lovrinović suggests that this is regulated by law, that this is necessary in a democratic society, that there is a clear and reasonable justification for introducing this obligation to process personal data relating to ethnicity. I don't think there is an objective and reasonable justification here, because the possible abuses that exist in the declaration of individuals in the electoral process or in employment must be resolved in another way, not in general that all the population of a country should declare or not declare its nationality. And the third cumulative condition that personal data could be processed and that there would be no violation of the right to the private life of each individual, that the goal that is to be achieved is that the means taken is proportionate to the legitimate objective. It means that what is prescribed by law is proportionate to what the legislator wants to achieve, which is to prevent possible abuses. I'm not sure that these two conditions have been met, and that's why I suggest that in the emergency procedure, we vote in the emergency procedure, at least I vote that way, for the emergency procedure, and then I vote against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11354	Once again, I remind you that we are discussing an emergency procedure. We all wanted to go faster and more operational, and most of us don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Zukan Helez, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11355	I thank the chairman. Look, in the previous address on the parliamentary issue, I have expressed my satisfaction that we are complete again, which we are going to do for the benefit of the citizens, this full term has been very hard for us, in obstructions, there are little results, we all agree here. And then when we come to Parliament's session, let no one resent me, then we start doing stupid things. Let anyone explain to me the urgency of this Law adequately, argued, because it says there – it is urgent to pass a law, if it is not adopted, there will be huge damage to the state, society, etc., not to mention, we all know what this is about. I don't know how non-compliance with this law would cause problems and damage to the state and society. In addition to being against it as an emergency procedure, but here, I also respect these arguments, it is our regrettable procedure in Parliament to adopt it according to an emergency procedure, so that it should be brought down and I am only interested, if we go towards the European Union, to find someone in this House a state that has such a legal solution in, uh, its legislation. And it seems to me that this is another pre-election uidurm of counterpart Nikola Lovrinović, and I don't know after this, if we adopted this, would it be on the next one, if it were written in the ID card by a legitimate representative, and then it was written by a HDZ member and there's no end there. I don't think it's that much, so much unserious that we shouldn't take this at all for consideration. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11356	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. You had a discussion about how...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11357	It's me, I think I'm right as a promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11358	Yeah, that was like a proposal. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11359	... Now, since, therefore, a lot has been said, uh, and it can't possibly fit everything in a replica that lasts as long as it takes, is it, I've, here, decided to use this to discuss, even though, as you said, it's about an emergency procedure, but we can't just avoid that fact to get into the debate and about, part of it and the metrics, and I'm sorry. So Mr. Magazinović said, he won't be able to get a job. I repeat myself again in the authorities, and I will give some examples. Mr. Magazinović, let's say, remember, I think you've been involved in the reception and the reception committee, for example, where you need to be defied from the order of three constituent peoples and then, therefore, extracts among other things what is a lawyer, has a certain working experience and belongs to someone about constitutive peoples. So...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11360	Emergency procedure, Mr. Lovrinović. Emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11361	So I have to answer, to, to, to the wrong allegations, therefore, to the bodies, to say, the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency. We also place people in all the bodies of this Parliament and the authorities and respect the '91 census. years under constitutional provisions. So that's what it's all about. Don't banalize on the employment of every cleaner here and anywhere. So we're talking about body employment and abuse of it, and abuse of lists, that's not what I'm talking about. So, if you care about it, colleagues of Arnaut and colleagues of Helez, to remain that possibility, that people, therefore, abuse their national belongings by cheating, therefore, and materially well through the mandates that behave and do not belong to them, therefore, it is a fact If that doesn't endanger the state, then I don't know what's threatening it. [[The speaker is warned on time]] Mr. Radmanović, is this a five-minute debate for me now, or is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11362	Emergency, you have five minutes but we're talking about an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11363	So I'm talking about an emergency procedure. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11364	I'm warning you twice, and you're nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11365	So I won't get a chance to, uh, vote afterwards on an emergency procedure. All right, so, Mr. Mektić, I'm just gonna answer it, no more talking. So, Mr. Mektić, therefore, entering that data into the ID card is also an alternative, not an obligation. So, by choice of the one reporting the data. Let's say, let me remind you that in Belgium there is, on a personal map, this, the language is used in different, valenian and Flemish, so people agree and thus appear. Immediately in the polling post, therefore, when he shows his ID card, he gets a ballot for which parliament will vote. There are examples, it's not a problem. But I'm not insisting on any ID or citizenship, I'm insisting on the home office. So, I don't even insist on the process, but when a man gets a mandate, then he has to prove that he's the one who introduced himself and that he no longer manipulates it. It's about that, and I agree with you that it's an I.D. and I don't necessarily ask it to be him, it's just a possibility to be listed there if it wants to be. Therefore, the malfeasances spoken of by Mr Arnaut, so what will he say, the compensation mandate, in the SBB party, left the party, so which, which is the manipulator, therefore, is not elected to this Parliament at all. What are we talking about, he's going to talk about some kind of honesty about this Parliament and everything else? Who does he represent that I only know who he represents? But never mind, thank you, Mr. Radmanović, for letting me do this much, but we didn't understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11366	Thanks for getting along. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11367	Here, Mr. Lovrinović every time asks to win at a loss, so every time he wins. 5,000 votes of my own, 4,000 votes of Borjana Krišto, your boss. Mr. Lovrinović, I mean really, you never learn. Mr. Radmanović, please, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, twice the Proposer has only to propose, to explain the bill, then there are 15 minutes, and then another time as a participant in the debate. He doesn't have the right to speak twice when he explains the emergency procedure. So, this is a total misdemeanor, the circus man here is making, wants the circus to make another four months with this, doesn't answer the question of how the Goran Opsenica is going to be, what's it going to say in his birth certificate? Will a Srbin or a Hrvat write to him? Let's vote for an emergency procedure, knock this shit down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11368	Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11369	Well, I don't know what's supposed to be clearer than Mr. Arnaut wanting to leave the condition as it is. He wants to leave the state of theft, manipulation in the election process. So, I'm not exempt from 34 me and Mr. Opsenica, and I'm also saying because of the opsenica, that's what I'm supposed to bring. I don't have to let anyone, so I don't exempt my own party, and I don't justify it, so I agree with you here, but don't give me anything I didn't say at all. This applies to anyone who serves and abuses that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11370	Thank you. No more reports, we're pleading for an emergency procedure. The general majority exists, no entity majority. [[/consultations of the College.]] I suggest an ex post consent. We haven't adopted an emergency procedure request. I'm closing point four. Point five, Ad. 5. The request of MP Adil Osmanović to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Public Procurement Act under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure: 01-02-1-659/22 of 25.04.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11373	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, fellow Members and fellow Members. I will only focus on the urgency of the procedure in this brief opening statement when it comes to amending the Public Procurement Act. We have already had initiatives to amend and supplement certain laws here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on several occasions, in order, above all, to enable our citizens and economic operators to cope more easily with this difficult economic situation, and therefore this proposal for amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act by an urgent procedure should be observed in such a way. Currently, BiH as well as the whole world is struggling with global market disturbances, and it is necessary to take emergency activities that have positive economic effects and consider without any delays. In fact, we are witnessing that almost daily labour prices are changing, changing service prices, goods, and thus facing problems that already signed contracts face sustainability problems and there is something that needs to be done so that many infrastructure projects throughout BiH do not stop and therefore we propose that this law be considered by an urgent procedure. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11374	I thank my colleague Osmanović as the legislator. Dear representative Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać reported for the debate. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11375	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will really focus only on the type of procedure, so, on the emergency and I will say, means deeply appreciating and understanding the SDA's attempt to try to further regulate the area of public procurement at such an unstable time when really prices are growing at an incredible rate and, uh, we have total unpredictability on the market, especially when it comes to realising large projects. However, by analysing the current laws in Republika Srpska's legal system, I must point to the Law on Liabilities which, of course, you all know, after the public procurement procedure has been completed under the Public Procurement Act, on stage, so to speak, the Law on Liaison Relations is entered and it is in its Article 637, which treats price invariability, for example, that works can be priced when it comes to works, can be changed if the price change is more than 10%. We here at the SDA Club Proposal, in attitude (2), have a situation to limit price increases to 5%. The question is, what's between 5% and 10%? We're going to have this discrepancy of regulations and we're going to have a problem in applying and I'm particularly drawing attention to these two laws being treated and it should have been, and so it is, extremely large, even those big infrastructure projects, etc., and we need to find a way to further regulate this, uh, but this proposal, as proposed by our colleagues in the U.S.A., introduces us into a conflict of regulations and we can't accept this emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11376	Thank you. Mrs. Darijana Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11377	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Vice President and the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. My intention is briefly to discuss the urgency of the procedure to point to a detail that may direct someone's vote on the urgency of the procedure, my personal and perhaps other colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, from this previous presentation of the Proposer, as well as reading the explanation of this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, there is a clear urgency and perhaps it is commendable that this Law is actually trying to solve certain problems with which certain entities as contracting parties face up to the realization of previously concluded contracts. However, it is confusing or becoming unclear when the proposed articles and reasoning are read, then it is evident that the matter treats contracts in Article 1, and the article two says that the Law applies to all proceedings which are essentially something else. Well, it's actually unclear whether it's a technical mistake or a failure, because it seems to me that Article 2 should have said that the law applies, not to procedures, but to contracts. So I ask the Proposer to make us grow this part, because actually if it is a mistake, then it can be changed in an emergency procedure, and if it is not a mistake, then it should be amended and it may not be good for the law to be treated in an emergency procedure. 36 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11378	Thank you. Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11379	Thank you very much. Here, I had no intention of reporting on this matter of the Law, because I also believe that something had to be done in this regard, given, here, on the basis of the Law, but here, listening to a colleague in the front, somehow some seem to have remained unclear here since it really intervenes on the provisions of Article 72 and talks about contracts, and Article 2, this Law applies to all proceedings which have not been completed before the entry into force of this Law. This provision, a distinguished colleague, is very clear to you and it opens up opportunities for some new contracts, and here today we have a situation where the bigger problem is those contracts that are now in place. So those who have been in the last year may be locked up and not realized. So the legal situation here is very clear, so this is exactly what we need to have in this emergency procedure. So in the context of what a colleague has been trying to say, let's just say, in Article 2, how to treat an emergency procedure when we can only act in terms of technical repairs. This Law should, perhaps, apply to all contracts which have not been completed, or implemented before the entry into force of this Act, and which it means before. Or, eventually throw out that it applies to all actions that are not over. So, we need to be clear about the precision, because this is not going to solve the problem for the current closed contracts, but only for those that apply, after this law comes into force. Here, thank you very much. I hope that we will have understanding because it is the interest of all of us that this situation is at least as far as we Parliamentarians can act, and that somehow there are no certain disputes on the market, etc., whenever it comes to one or the other of the parties agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11380	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. There's no emergency procedure, there's a general majority, but there's no enthetic. [[/consultations of the College.]] It's an ex post adjustment. I'm closing point five. 37 Point Six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law, Proposer: MP Denis Zvizdić, number: 01-02-1-131/22 of 24.01.2022, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11384	Thank you, Chairman. I am speaking as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, we held yesterday a session where most of the votes by the SNSD and HDZ were determined not to support the principles of this Law. I'd like to say a few words about the session itself. The Constitutional Commission session, I think it is done on other committees, has actually turned into a session where the number of votes and the number of hands is manifested, there is no argument, there is no debate whether any proposal is justified, based on the Constitution, whether it is good to go to its adoption, but it is important how many of those who will vote against are present at the session, and how many of those who will vote for the bill are present. I would say yesterday because of the lack of two MPs, two members of the Constitutional Commission have a negative opinion like this today, and I regret it very much, because this proposal of the Electoral Law represents a complete package of integrity in order to improve the electoral process in BiH, in order to improve electoral legislation. He is the result of the work and the months-long effort not only of representatives of the 38 parliamentary parties from BiH, but of experts involved by the OSCE, by the Venice Commission, by the European Union delegation. The law should define hate speech in the election campaign, should define abuse of public resources in the election campaign, should increase fines for violations of the electoral law, should regulate the issue of mandates, because we now have incompatibility of functions when individual members of the executive government, those acting as executive authorities, have received a mandate in the legislative authority. He should meet all the recommendations that ODIHR gave us – the Department of Democracy and Human Rights of the OSCE. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the OSCE, has appropriate obligations on this basis and we have recommendations given in 2010, 2014 and 2018 after the election. Chairman, I assume you'd like to say...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11385	Well, I think we're discussing the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11386	I, uh, consulted the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11387	At least that's how it should be done, and you know it well.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11388	I have consulted the Rules of Procedure, the item of the agenda is the draft electoral law with the Commission's opinion, and there is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure to discuss the draft law on the agenda. I assumed you'd put that in my notice, so it doesn't say what you're saying. Then, all of these recommendations that have been made concern the appointment of election committees, the procedure relating to the Central Election List, the accuracy and the accuracy of the data, also concerns the presence of members and presidents of election committees during the whole vote and the recommendations relating to accuracy in the counting of ballots, which has found a place in this Act by introducing an electronic identification of voters and the electronic count of ballots which, under the transitional provision of the Law, should be applied after the technical assumptions for the application of this Act have been fulfilled. I'd just say that for BiH it's a great shame, I think you've got all the parliamentarians of a dozen e-mails that support this bill, many hours it's been invested in making this law, and the American Embassy has given its experts, we've had the best experts of ODIHR, Mrs Megan Fidžerald, who's the head of the ODIHR Department was with us, he's the secretary of ODIHR, she's the secretary of the Venice Commission. These, these members are conceived in direct communication with them, but in BiH we like to say that we are smarter than everyone, we don't need someone else's brains, we don't have subjective mentality, and we here need to create our own brains and come up with solutions that the direction in which the recommendations are met. [[Embassy is warned on time]] I think it is a great shame for BiH that we failed to vote on the Constitutional Commission yesterday, any delay, of course, that it will question the application of this law in the next elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11389	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11390	Ms. Čolo, as chairman of the committee, the Constitutional Commission, therefore, presented something that neither requires a record nor knows, nor asks this Parliament to say so here from the session of the Constitutional Commission. So she spoke as president, so she said herself, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, she does not write a business obligation anywhere, nor a record to say which representatives from which parties they were for, who were against. The Constitutional Commission has brought its opinion on what it has brought. Therefore, what is integrated to you, integrity, therefore, the electoral process, and you leave the most important things and the biggest thefts beyond this proposal, those who have proposed, and also as chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and that is false national representation, that is stealing parliamentary places, that is, all that is most important in the Law you leave aside, and you prefer something completely different, so if you want to talk about the integrity of the Election Law. At the end of the call, you yourself said on the Constitutional Court yesterday that it was a proposal, if I understood correctly, if I did not, you would certainly correct me, of the three ambassadors and representatives of the OSCE, so you said, therefore, whether they were proposing the Law, so they proposed this Law and was made according to the OSCE proposal of the time, it was also done and that is why we have problems that we didn't agree on. So, you are not asked who or what or how as chairman of the commission, the second is as MPs, therefore, you have told the chairman of the commission the data which no one asks you for, nor the record knows, and I ask you to keep that in mind in the future. So the ustavnopravni Commission has done its job, made the decision it has made, and that is the case, delivered to this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11391	Please both adhere to the agenda and the Rules of Procedure and both of you have now failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11392	I said that I spoke on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, Article 113 states that the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission should be a reasoned, reasoned negative opinion, in my opinion, should contain detailed reasons why it is a negative opinion. However, here are the Commission's flat-rate reports, and this has become a practice, to just write down how many who voted "yes", as who voted "against" and passed, has not passed. In my view, this is unacceptable, for one serious law, for one serious commission, the Constitutional Commission, to create reports, because you can't even create a different report when you haven't had a serious debate, and in that debate it's not the power of the arguments that prevails, but rather the power of power, the power of power, the power of the hands, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11393	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11394	... on the second item of the agenda, but here I am one of the legislators of the Law, uh, attended the Constitutional Legal Commission, and of course we are all witnesses of what Mrs. Čolo says, that the Constitutional Legal Commission, therefore, has become a committee on which only votes are just being raised, which in any case, because of the importance of the commission, should not be so and in that sense, therefore, fully agree with everything Mrs. Čolo said, because here we only have, uh, the majority, and it is funny that, yes, to say that one law is not in line with constitutional principles, and that indeed the MPs do not know why. And also, here, as well as who knows which way so far we're talking about, here, we're not going to adopt, so the proposals that came from valid international bodies, that we're not going to adopt proposals from international experts from certain areas and that we're not going to accept some good practices that have already been established and we say we need to agree, and we never agree. Therefore, I also find it regrettable that, which is the decision of the Constitutional Legal Commission and the adoption of an opinion only comes down to predominance in the number of votes and that it is indeed one of the illogicalities, because it is true that we do not know what this bill is in line with constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11395	Mr. Nermin Nikšić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I think we made a small step when it comes to the Constitutional Commission, because today, yesterday, there is still no disputed constitutional basis. You'll all remember when we had the bill to get inside the list, that censorship from 20 to 10 was reduced, that it was then said that it was not in accordance with the Constitution. Unfortunately, I'm one of the agents who wasn't present, I've properly justified my absence, but the right to tell you has not occurred to me that it might be possible for someone to challenge the possibility of discussing this law here in the House of Representatives and, of course, to support it or not to support it as well as any other law. Unfortunately, the system in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is made so that really many things are killed on the working bodies and cannot come what we appreciate is correct and that it is good here. I thought that after some arguments, which I had heard earlier on the Constitutional Commission, we would not be able to hear one of these thoughts, but here we will correct at the next session of the Constitutional Commission, although no matter how much we are going to pour ash here and talk about what we want, it is actually clear here who we are not aiming at and who doesn't want to have fair and fair elections in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11397	Mr. jasmin Emrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11398	I thank the chairman. I am not surprised by the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, because we know that the Constitutional Commission is actually destroying those laws that are not according to the ruling majority, in this case those members of the Commission who voted against the Bill's proposal in a way that says that the principles of this Law are not acceptable to the Constitutional Commission, or that they are not acceptable to those members who voted against this Law. Now let's see what principles are not acceptable to the members of the 41 Constitutional Commission of SNSD and HDZ who voted against this law? What does the law say? In this proposal, the law states under paragraph 3 of the reasons for the principles on which the Law is based – the basic principles on which this Law rests is strengthening the integrity of the electoral process. Strengthening the integrity of the electoral process is not an acceptable principle for those members of the Constitutional Legal Commission who voted against this bill. So here's what we've discovered. But it wasn't the first time and last time it was the same screenplay, when this distinguished House adopted the amendment and addition of the Electoral Law, which also strengthened the integrity of the election process in the last term. The next principle voted against by members of the Constitutional Legal Commission is an increase in transparency. So they're not responding to an increase in transparency in the electoral procedure. What we need is transparency, and we want to keep this way of regular practice of controlling the electoral process and, of course, abuse of the electoral procedure, and those who vote against this principle of transparency know why they vote, probably know why they vote. And we are in favour of increasing transparency and helping us international experts, but the experts of the members of the Constitutional Commission of this respected House are against the transparency of the electoral process. I know that the Constitutional Commission is making political decisions, but this is really beneath every measure to explain in this way why they are against this bill that increases the transparency of the electoral process. Still, they are against ensuring fair and fair elections. The members of the Constitutional Legal Commission who gave this negative opinion are against fair and fair elections, which they have shown by their vote, which is devastating. These are the principles set out, which in the explanation followed by this proposal for amending and supplementing the Election Law and the Constitutional Legal Commission, says that these principles, or members of the Constitutional Legal Commission, to be precise, which voted for this negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, are against these principles that I have stated, which are in the light of what is devastating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11399	Mr. Predrag Kožul, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11400	Well, here I am not a member of the Constitutional Commission, I am not a lawyer either, but based on that sentence – I am not a doctor, but I can look at it, I also read very carefully the proposal of this Law and its reasoning, but also the whole text of the Act that is changing. So I came across article 10.12. The electoral law on which the star is located, imagine the applicable law on which the star stands and below in paragraph (2) of that Law, a cross sentence – one place is given to each constitutive people in each canton. And down with that star, it writes -- the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision, published in the "Official Messenger" and so on, the provision of Article 10.12. etc. It has ceased to apply since 29.07.2017. I repeat again, I am not a lawyer but I do believe that one system law in one country cannot have stars in its text that explain that there is a part of the law that has ceased to apply to anyone and we are proposing solutions that, I have carefully read them to see what this is going to be, this integrity and this transparency so much repair these 130 amendments and addition articles, imagine 130 amendments and additions. Well, I haven't, perhaps I don't read well or know very little about the election process, so I haven't exactly seen a mass of provisions that will thus significantly improve the transparency and integrity of the election process, but that's my problem. But I'm focusing on this article 10.12 with a star, if we're going to go to elections with an election law that has a star and a sign that part of that law has been put out of force since 29.07.2017, then we can change whatever we want and do whatever we want, but it's very clear that these are not transparent and fair elections. 42 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11401	Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać Snježana, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11402	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, could not be avoided from saying anything about the overall process in which we found ourselves, trying to amend and supplement the Electoral Law, I will not be able to repeat myself very much, except for the well-known position that this job in well-intentioned political actors should not have been entered, because significant time and energy were lost without a pre-clear political position on key issues. We have been and we have participated as members of the Interresor Group and we have not, and we have always been very clear, but we have dealt in detail with all these solutions, which someone calls "expert," and then, as Mr. Kožul says, we get stars, and then from these offered members, I would now not really sound malice, because it is not my intention, because I welcome every good intention and effort and work that contributes to something good. But having in this many places changes and additions to laws concerning the introduction of new technologies, and in final and transitional provisions to prejudge the solution is unserious. So a serious approach would be, as it should have been, to first conduct all of those previous examinations, feasibility studies, etc. Well, then let's see if it's ever going to change the law. This here is clear from the beginning what has been trying and what is trying, and I won't pay attention to it, because the majority of the changes and the additions are trying to show, my Bog, here we are going to introduce some new technologies and we're going to prevent some theft, and that part of the segment of the election process where we have judgments, where we have no idea who's voting, you all know what I'm talking about abroad, that's what we're going to say loudly and even louder to shut up, and we're going to make ourselves very integrated that we haven't seen, or heard, or knew, and that's what's important, my Bog, is that we're trying to exfil some democracy, some electronics and scanners, etc. And even when we're being transferred to the SNSD Constitutional Legal Commission for MPs, I'm just going to give you two examples. Proposals 114 and 124, Articles 114 and 124 of the proposal, watch this, in proposal 114, and the final position, says – The Central Election Commission, listen to this, implements the process of determining responsibility. Take care of this, giving such jurisdiction to the body to conduct the elections means determining responsibility. So people who in normal legal systems determine responsibility, what is this law? Secondly, a similar, similar, similar solution, I mean preparation, the right preparation for discussion under this Law is not here, because we thought and I expected that we would only talk about the report, or that we would not talk at all like we haven't, but since you've already started the discussion here's another similar to you. In the 124th proposal, it says, in the case of false information being supplied by a political entity through the media, etc. if such information can jeopardise the integrity of the electoral process, the Central Election Commission is authorised to carry out the procedure. What kind of procedure is this? It determines a lie. What, how? Do you really consider this a serious proposal? By integrity, so, you're coming up with non-executive things, you give and locate some responsibilities and responsibilities that are nowhere in the world, so, centrally, it looks like we need the Central Election Commission to carry out some inquisition, some kind of inquisition, and now, if I am or you, it doesn't matter who, Mr. Adil, is this, and it says something at some rally and then it's nicely called by some interrupted court, the Central Election Commission to determine whether this is his spoken lie or not, and it's your integrity. And because of these things, first of all, the position of the SNSD is unchanged, very clear on the issue of electoral 43 reforms, and when we enter into these details, not to mention these key integrity problems, and only these details as much as you will, and don't ask us to tell us any inconclusiveness when it comes to voting in any commission. Thank you very much, especially when it comes to general political attitude and approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11403	Wrong quote by Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, colleagues Čolo and Lepić, I think that at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission you both were, in particular, the chairman, and Mrs Krišto and Mr Radmanović, and that he presented the reasons for the objections to the proposed text, so they both presented the reasons that you simply ignored. So I won't convince them, and if the gentlemen want to say and let them say what they said on the Constitutional Commission, except that you didn't like it, that's your problem, so it's not us and those who brought it up to you. On the other hand, Mr. Emrić, integrity is not only what you think it is and what is possibly proposed in these amendments and additions, it is much wider, it is much wider and much more content to really be the right Electoral Law. So, you want to change this, and you want to keep the biggest theft, false representation, kidnapping of the legitimate choice of representatives, thresholds, preferences, compensation, so it's all the integrity of the electoral process that you won't enter and touch, so we have a third of Parliament's compensation mandates, it's nobody's chosen these people, it's the presidents of the party giving people and putting them here and they're here, creating almost Parliament's work. You're not going to talk about... is that the integrity of the electoral process? Read there in the Electoral Law what the compensation mandate means, applies to quotas, in the end it has turned into actually a third of the MPs here in this Parliament, you will not talk about this integrity. And in the end, you want fair and fair elections, how you're going to get fair and fair elections if all of this is stolen and these are the biggest thefts, so these are the biggest problems in this election law, and you're not going to talk about it. On the other hand, MPs at the House of Representatives do not have to say anything, that is, in the Constitutional Legal Commission, to give their vote, which is the problem, is I have to say something to please someone, and by my vote, I state the position that I have on what is proposed, I do not have to say anything, because what is proposed is impossible to correct, what Mrs Novaković was saying. It is impossible to correct, therefore, 130 articles and what they have proposed and what they have proposed. And behold, if the Lords, who spoke their views of the proposed changes, will say, let them say, therefore, they are spoken plainly, loudly, and whoever wanted them could hear them, who will not hear them what I will do to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11405	Wrong quote, Mr. jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11406	Mr. Lovrinović, I am not a member of an interresor working group, and probably you have a member in front of the HDZ, and I asked to be a member of the interresor working group, just to give my contribution and what I think should be installed and 44 to fix the BiH Election Law, in order to prevent the theft of Mr. Lovrinović and I asked to be, and you did not, most of them did not allow jasmin Emrić to be a member of the interresor working group. Why didn't you give it? Well, maybe you don't like what I'm saying. I want to talk about everything and all the thefts and all the abuses and I call on everyone to do it. Well, you've had the opportunity to propose through the work of an interresor working group all of what you thought was necessary to fix in the BiH Election Law, to install, to suggest how you think it should be and to seek support for it, to discuss it, to discuss it and to seek support, that's the way to discuss it in this way. Therefore, I was speaking in my previous discussion on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and that this opinion is unacceptable for me, given that they have cited the main reason that they are against the principles on which the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law is based, and I have given you these principles. I wouldn't go further into the debate, and when we discuss amendments and amendments to the Electoral Act, then we'll hear my suggestions and my opinions and all the MPs who have a desire to participate in this process, and you've also had the opportunity to do all the things you think Election law to prevent [[Employee is warned on time]] If you said that, if you suggested it, and I would support it, that means everything that will contribute. [[Employee is warned on time]] And by reducing abuse, I support. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11407	Mrs. Borjana Krišto, regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11408	Thank you very much. Given that we have a point on the agenda with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and that we have heard strong debates and arguments here, first of all – why is this a negative opinion, does anyone think that someone can be someone's consciousness and conscience and that HDZ BiH should behave the way others here think? I guess we are political representatives of the Croatian people sitting in this House representing and having our views clearly defined. The second thing, when it comes to the work of the Constitutional Commission or the Commission, is that it has nine members, I will remind those who have tried to do so today to explain how HDZ is tearing down this, the views, this, constitutional in terms of certain draft laws. The HDZ BiH has two members, so it is not clear to me by which mathematics you have come to the fact that two members are in no way able to participate in the outcome of the Constitutional Commission, with the presence of quorum, that you, who have tried to explain today, that we have brought this down in this session without arguments, only by some power, have just handled your own views and your own moves that you are doing so far, respecting neither the principles nor the current Constitution, etc. but you're just handling that you're some kind of majority, and you have your hands in this House and in the Constitutional Commission, and you can tear down certain decisions. In this case, when it comes to the opinion of this Constitutional Commission, we, too, clearly presented our reasons before the HDZ, when it comes to the proposal to amend and supplement the electoral law and, of course, that these principles, which are written, as a mere explanation, absolutely do not comply with both the principles of transparency and the principles of integrity of the electoral process. What could be the integrity of the electoral process, but the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH which primarily protects the Constitution of BiH, in which we all swear, which we all swear here. What this may be the integrity of the electoral process to the implementation of European Court of Human Rights decisions, which exists and contains discriminatory provisions. We were ready for all of that. What this can be 45 is the integrity of the electoral process as well as that the Central Election Commission is appointed in accordance with a law which clearly requires that the Central Election Commission should be appointed, and that is what we have invested our amendments, as they are named in all other institutions and bodies of the authorities and bodies by the Parliamentary Assembly. What should be the integrity of the electoral process in the election committee to conduct choices according to the public tender procedure, and here we are doing this beyond the proposal of a certain parliamentary majority and therefore you are guilty, of course, of HDZ BiH or perhaps of someone else like you think. I therefore call on you, I have made clear and expressed my position on the Constitutional Court, that we do not accept these amendments and amendments to the Election Law, but that we have prepared amendments, amendments can only be made to those proposals, or chapters and articles that change, and we have done so, but we have made it clear to the Constitutional Commission that there are no principles for us that satisfy neither the transparency nor the integrity of the electoral process. Please, in law, if a colleague Novaković has also called as a member of an interresor working group in which I am sitting, in which members of ODIHR have made it clear that only new technologies can be introduced into definitions and transitional and final provisions to say how and how and when the Parliamentary Assembly decides to do so when election technologies can be prescribed. Is the integrity of the electoral process what is written in the proposal to amend and supplement the Electoral Law identification through fingerprints? This is what Avganistan and Macedonia, whose elections have been questioned because of this, is this the integrity of the electoral process? Furthermore, not to say the other things that speak about what we have talked about and we're lying about, and we were clearly put through an inter-resor working group to define both the early campaign, and the hate speech, and the abuse, what was done in these proposals is not clearly defined in a clear way to allow the law to be enforceable, to clearly define the responsibility of the abuser. On the contrary, these proposals are just going so that it can be misused that it is written there by only one body, the bodies in charge of the conduct of the election. I hope that I have shown enough, I thank you and, of course, whatever you say afterwards, keep in mind that BiH's HDZ will always have its clear and argumentated position, have its proposals that will be in line with the BiH Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11409	Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs Alma Čolo, twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11410	Thank you, Chairman. I wish that you, Mrs Krišto, had expressed this clear and reasoned position when it comes to the integrity of the electoral process through these changes that you have proposed under the urgent procedure in the House of Peoples, I have seen nothing but the definition of information technologies and that it will only apply when Parliament decides. That is what Parliament will decide, here we know, for two years in this House, there is a feasibility study in Parliament on the implementation of information technologies in the electoral process delivered by the CEC and you and your partners have never allowed it to come to the agenda of one and another home to tell us what we think about it. You said the CEC had no right to suggest it. Your president, on several occasions in talks before the international community, said that the package of integrity, which we were talking about, the one that came to Parliament, is no problem, that it accepts it unreservedly, but if appropriate other solutions are achieved. 46 What Mr. Kožul says, there is a star there. It is Mr. Kožul's unofficially cleansed text in which there is a star that this sentence has been deleted, you could, by amendment to this Law, replace that sentence with an appropriate sentence contained in the Federation Constitution. I wanted to install it into the law, but this is a package of integrity, and it can't be something that's the essence of getting into this, but it can be in the amendment phase, and I'd love to believe it. When it comes to what Ms. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać said, responsibility says, the CEC determines responsibility. So, Mrs. Bursać, six months.../the ambassador warns herself of sources/... mandate, do not submit a financial report to the CEC You don't think you'll get a fine, you don't think they'll determine your responsibility, even now the CEC [[Embassy is warned on time]] and the BiH Court is authorised to review the CEC's decisions. [[Embassy is warned on time]] That's it, I don't have much time, I'd have a lot more to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11411	Mr. Predrag Kojović, blames the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11412	I thank the chairman. Well, I think that Mrs. Krišto was actually really transparent for the first time explaining the mystery of the Constitutional Commission's opinions, which, I must admit, intrigued me all this time in terms of getting an explanation, we had a proposal from the DF for the amendments to the Constitution, which got the Constitutional Commission's assessment that it was not in accordance with the Constitution, is, which, I think, is clearly about logical non-sessions and were unsatisfactory, frankly, to this very precise and clear attitude that Mrs. Kristo, who said, we are political representatives of one people, it means, it deserves, Mrs. Krišto, a discussion that doesn't belong, of course, at this point, but one serious political statement, which has already been proven, this one, that can't stand, but really not open that topic. And you said, "We come to the Constitutional Commission with a clear political attitude and decide whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not." That's a very precise explanation of what you're doing wrong in the Constitutional Commission. I know it may be difficult, but you'd be in the Constitutional Commission, I don't know what's funny to you, but let's just say, when you say a lot of funny things, I'm trying to keep the sensitivity of the House in which I speak, you'd have to act like the lawyers in the constitutional area, whether some lower legal act than the Constitution is in accordance or contrary to the Constitution. However, you there obviously decide in the way you are right and should be encouraged, in which you should decide when it comes to here and discuss a proposal in the House. It's hard to be, sitting in the Constitutional Commission and being a guardian of the Constitution and being, as you would say, a political activist in one person, but that's a requirement. who once stands before us. [[Employee is warned on time]] So I am, frankly, grateful to you, because now we have a very precise explanation that HDZ The Constitutional Commission does not decide whether something is in line with the Constitution, but whether something is in line with their political clear position. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11413	Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic Mirjana, guilty of allegation. Here you go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11414	So I would agree, of course, with Predraga, because here I have written it to myself as one false allegation that HDZ is a representative of the Croatian people, it is not at all, he is a representative of his voters. And here's another coincidence, is it, we didn't make any arrangements, but apparently the same things make our ears mate, that through the vote we express our position and that we can't, that there's absolutely nothing to say when you're on the Constitutional Commission, it absolutely doesn't stand, because the Constitutional Commission assesses whether something is in line with the Constitution and constitutional principles. After this is how we've been defamed, this, for a pay phone and somehow us, we seem to be getting hurt here, I would also correct one false allegation, i.e. the fact that you are calling for decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH only in this process or recently only in the electoral process and when these are, when it comes to election laws and elections. I'm surprised that you didn't influence, say, the Constitutional Court's decision to, say, call Canton 10 not "livanjski" or "canotines don't call themselves county," which is also the decision of the Constitutional Court and that, here, and as a lawyer, you don't advocate respecting all the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. About the Election Commission, I don't think we should talk about her choice here, since the court made a decision that and that, that the selection of missing members of the Election Commission was in accordance with the law, and you were constantly spinning that mantra about, and even with representatives of some parties that it doesn't comply with the law. [[Embassy is warned on time]] And here, I'm really surprised that for you, the integrity of the election process is to write to me in a personal card what I am by nationality, but the provisions of the laws that apply right to prevention. Stealing for you is not the integrity of the electoral process. [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11415	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't have any more, I think, of these replicas, so I had to reach out to the available mechanism. So, Mrs. Lepić and colleagues Kojović, we are, therefore, the Constitutional Commission, I say we are, or here I am, no matter, a member of the Constitutional Commission, we are the working body of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we are not the Constitutional Court. Can you imagine the situation that there are no lawyers in the House of Representatives, who would then be in the Constitutional Commission? So, we here bring political views, so if you will and when we change the Constitution, therefore, we are not the Constitutional Court and we do not have to be all lawyers, who says that we must be all lawyers in the Constitutional Legal Commission, we are the working body of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly who is considering certain issues and who brings their views in the way he thinks they should be brought in, and we do not judge us, therefore, if something is controversial has a Constitutional Court and let him talk about it. And, uh, what you were saying about, whose representatives we are. So we are the Croatian Democratic Community and I really thank all those who voted for us, but here we are called the Croatian Democratic Community. The election commission, Mrs Lepić, has not been elected in accordance with the law, and you will not convince us to have ten mandates here and I will do so in the future, therefore, to move it, to delete it from that decision. So it wasn't passed under the law, because people had to be selected from the list, and the list didn't exist, by competition, the contest was terminated. According to 48, it is not true that according to the Electoral Law, let the court take the decision, the court evaluated something completely different, as far as I'm aware, but here's the thing, so we'll have a chance to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11417	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Predrag Kojović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11418	I understand, Mr Lovrinović, that you do not feel, that you are not professional enough for the Constitutional Commission and that there is a possibility that other members of the Commission are not experts in constitutional law or that I do not know, in this House eventually and do not sit people who are experts in constitutional law. And of course there is a Constitutional Court that we adopt in this House at the request of a particular group will reconsider. You are required there in the Constitutional Legal Commission one of the simplest logical processes called deduction, where you are looking at whether one, as you would say, is an individual proposal in accordance with some general norms. Look, if you entered this body that counts only 42 people, in a country of 3.5 million people, you have to have some quality,...to say, the rule of logic is one, I think you should be one of the overvisits to stay in such a respected home. So I understand that argument of yours, but that's why, I expect, frankly, to tell you that the simplest thing I can do is to express myself, the next thing I know, Peđin's bill of some law is not in line with the Constitution because Article 6. The constitution says so on, which is the opposite of what Peđa is proposing. So I'm not looking for a philosophical debate, as you might say, meaning, meaning of life, etc. but simply a simple deduction, the subjugation of certain proposals under a certain member of the Constitution, i.e. the opposite of that member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11419	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11420	So here's Mr. Lovrinović and Mrs. Krišto essentially started their discussion and proved too much. So, on the one hand, Mr. Lovrinović says he is not a legal expert and that there is no need to judge, uh, the consistency of this electoral law, the proposal for an electoral law with the Constitution, and on the other hand, he very detailedly explained why he considers, from a legal point of view, that the election of members of the Central Election Commission is not in line with the Electoral Law. I mean, is it or isn't it? But here, I mean, let's really go naked today, I mean, I was just saying why he proposed this discriminatory law, these blood cells on his ID cards. Oh, you know what the core of the problem is? Which HDZ has two members of the Constitutional Commission, and by no means belongs to it. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that parties in constitutional law, i.e. legislators' clubs, receive seats in committees in accordance with the size of clubs, the HDZ can therefore have a maximum of one. Because you see the SDA when it formed a commission with nine members got two, the SNSD and the Serbian Club with think more than nine members at that time got two, HDZ with five members got two, SDP then had four members got one, etc. I mean, so it was clear. You know what happened then, remembers everyone, remembers Vlatko the most, the SDA gave up one of its members who belonged to the Committee on Gender Equality so Vlatko Glavaš would go 49 to the Committee on Gender Equality, because there he was missing, uh, a member of the Croatian people, because HDZ wanted those two members at all costs in the Constitutional Commission so that he could do without Break the laws, that's what it all comes down to. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11421	No more reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm closing point 7. Point eight, Ad. 8. Conclusion from the 16th session of the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House, issue: 01,02-06-453/22 of 22.03.2022, and the decision to refer the application for Bosnia and Herzegovina's candidate status to the accelerated procedure, Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-06-453-1/22 of 08.04.2022. The joint college of both homes concluded that an initiative on an accelerated procedure for granting BiH candidate status was being addressed to the institutions of the European Union, and that a debate on the submission of that initiative was held at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. The people's home adopted a decision to apply for BiH's candidate status in the context of an accelerated procedure during the debate on the said zaključ. You've both reached a conclusion at home. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing point 8. Point nine, there's a set of reporting points, there's been a proposal to put together a debate on all the reports, but it can practically go this fast. Point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the BiH Council of National Minorities for 2021, issue: 05/7-39-1-269/22 of 18.02.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11425	...as an additional explanation of what you said. In fact, at yesterday's session, the Joint Committee discussed this report and through the discussion of parts of the Report of the Independent Commission were characterised as over-authorization or at least that parts of the Report which were recommended by the Independent Commission should not be directed towards the Parliamentary Assembly and therefore the Committee for Human Rights accepted the Report, but with this one single recommendation that you have read here, so I will not elaborate it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11426	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate and point 10. Point 11. Ad. 11. Report on the issues of applying the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, issue 01,02-02-4-369/22 of 08.03.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11427	The Joint Committee on Human Rights shall be in accordance with Article 64. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Article 54. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Article 21. The Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly provided the above report. 51 I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing point 11. Point 12. Ad. 12. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "The basic assumptions for effective tax management and fees of BiH institutions, applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-2201/21 of 17.12.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11428	The Finance and Budget Commission considered the report, accepted it and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing point 12. Point 13. Ad. 13. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Electronical document management in BiH institutions, applicant: BiH institutions audit office, issue: 01/4-16-1-2224/21 of 23.12.2021. The Finance and Budget Commission considered the report, accepted it and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing point 13. Point 14. Ad. 14. Work report and the Financial Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2021, issue: 01,02-50-18-402/22 of 10.03.2022.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11433	Thank you, Chairman. So after I pointed out last year that BiH Central Bank has concluded an external audit agreement with Grant Thornton, who owned former SNSD Prime Minister of Republika Srpska Aleksandar Džombić, I see here a positive response to this criticism in the sense that the review ended in December 2021 by the internationally renowned Ernst & Young firm, and that is only one of the indicators that a well-founded criticism in this higher house can affect officials to start acting more responsibly when they awarded these contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11434	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing point 16. 53 Point 17. Ad. 17. Information from the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV Service on the consequences of BHRT's financial blockade, number: 01,02-50-18-476/22 of 24.03.2022. The information was included on the agenda by the College's decision in the extended composition on the Commission's proposal for traffic and communication, you got the material. I'm opening a debate. Mr. jasmin Emrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11436	I thank the Honorable Chairman. As regards this information, I would like to say first of all that I feel for BHRT employees because they don't receive their salary regularly, I stress the salary they earn, because every day, as we see, they work and produce programs that we all watch, and for what they do are not regularly paid. I would also like to refer to the address and invitation of the Independent Trade Union of RTV BiH to us MPs where they ask us, I will paraphrasise you – are you ashamed that from your comfortable ministerial and parliamentary chairs for three years you have not moved your finger to resolve the issue of funding of a BiH institution? That's what BHRT employees ask us publicly. I want to answer this question publicly. Yes, I am ashamed that until now the BHRT funding issue has not been resolved, although I am a representative who has absolutely no responsibility for the situation and the blocking of the account of this media house. As we know, I wasn't, nor am I now part of the ruling majority of SDA-SNSD-HDZ. I did not propose members of the Management Board and the Administration of the Public TV Service, nor do I have responsibility for their work, but although I have no responsibility for working and dealing with this Public TV service, I would like to say that first of all I am sympathetic to BHRT employees because they do not receive regular salary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, imagine the situation so we don't get paid for one month or more. So we regularly receive salaries, pay regularly, and the entire public in BiH sees what we do and how we do. I think it's a priority that this financial situation of BHRT is being resolved in order, above all, to help these people who are doing their job urgently because of their moral obligation. Here, they don't receive regular pay, and today they follow us and film us to see our work and represent it to the public. However, I must stress that we are not all responsible for this state of the BiH Public TV Service, the biggest responsibility is those who appointed the Management Board, which is the current ruling majority of the SDA-SNSD-HDZ. The Governing Board is thus setting up and calling on those who named them 04.06.2021 to urgently engage in the resolution of this major crisis, as they say. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, who have appointed the Management Board, have you joined in solving this financial blockade that destroys this important state institution, but which also affects the human fates of those who work without getting paid for their work? I am asking the chairman, the Council of Ministers, which is not there, and the competent minister, who is also not there – what have they done to temporarily remove this financial blockade and what is the plan of short-term and long-term resolution of the sustainable financing of public tv services? Do you have a plan and measures for the BiH Council of Ministers? Of course they do not, by their lack of presence and indifference, show how interested they are in this subject at all, and they are not interested in this whole situation at all. So I'm also asking them a question -- do they understand the situation and the situation of 870 workers and their families who are threatened by the existence of the Council of Ministers, but also because of the failure of those who appointed 54 Councils of Ministers and Management Structures? Do you hear and understand the cry of the Board of Directors and the Independent Trade Union of BHRT that it is urgent to address this financial situation and remove the possibility of blockades because this media house has been choking for years? That this state broadcaster has been financially suffocating for years is seen from this information of the Management Board where they state that their claims are over 60 million KM. Information shall be provided The charges filed in 2008 and that they have not been resolved yet. [[Employer is warned on time]] Why are they not solved, that question should be asked and The High Court and Prosecution Council. [[Employee is warned on time]] As the discussion is shortened, here I will suggest only three conclusions: - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Ministry of Justice to make and deliver within 30 days the legislative process of amending the BiH Executive Procedure Act in a way that the request for a RTV tax is considered credible. - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's centre is in charge of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to propose, as soon as possible, amendments to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH in a way that ensures sustainable financing of all three public TV services in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11437	Thank you. Mr. Adil Osmanović. Excuse me, there's a Damir Arnaut breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11438	Thank you, Chairman. You see, I mean, Mr. Emrić has already pointed out that, we don't have here either the Council of Ministers Chairman, nor the Minister of Transport and Communications, meaning the resolution ministry, which is from the SNSD, nor the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, which is from the SDA, Mr. Branković. I mean, I know it's all by law, but it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. Now, can we, uh, as far as I'm concerned, let's continue the debate, but can anyone from this ruling majority bring either the minister or the deputy minister, because there are legitimate questions here, what you've done on this matter, this is your portfolio. I mean, we meet so rarely, people can't sit here. So let's hear what they've done here these last months, yeah, I'd even like to see what they're doing here today when they're not here, so, when one point of the agenda is about their portfolio, they're gone today, I want to ask them what they've been doing for the last year, and I want to ask them what they're doing today, and they're not here. Here, not to waste any time, not to ask for a break, but please let the club bosses from the given party organization bring their people to the Council of Ministers, I will, I have questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11439	Please continue the debate, it is about the Information Board and it is difficult to say that the Rules of Procedure has been injured and that is how we came up with it and we accepted everyone at the beginning. There's been reports of discussion, they've got something to say about this subject, and it's good to have a debate. Mr. Adil Osmanović, please. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11440	Thank you, Chairman. On 29th of this year, the SDA Parliament Club submitted a proposal for information on the situation, on the problems in which the Public Media Service BHRT is located with a proposal for conclusions. I see there's no information on the portal here, not even information from the board of directors, at least it can't be opened, so he'd ask the departments to copy this information, share it with fellow Members and colleagues. I'll go through this information briefly, make one retrospective. In 2005, the Law on Public TV Service of BiH adopted three broadcasters with one fee to finance their work. TV tax in BiH is charged at the premises of BiH's entity and Brcko district. The BiH Public Broadcasting System is made up of RTV BiH, the Croatian Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska's TV and the BiH Public TV Service Corporation. A corporation that the broadcasters were to establish after 60 days of adoption of the Law has never been established. The funding model for public broadcasters in BiH is mixed, including RTD fees and advertising revenues, between 2005 and 2017, is entrusted to telecom operators. The data showed that in addition to the insufficient rate of charge via the telecom number of subscribers, it led to the loss of millions of public broadcasters. Therefore, at a session held in April 2015, the Public TV System Committee in BiH unanimously agreed on a new model for the collection of tv fees to be charged with electricity bills, sending its decision to the BiH Parliament for adoption. This means that the three public services of BHRT, the Croatian Federation of BiH and the Republika Srpska's TV set up appropriate contracts with power companies in BiH. This model of RTD tax is known in many European countries. Since 01 September 2017, a part of the Federation of BiH has been charged to RTV through an electricity bill, more specifically the part provided by the Elektroprivreda BiH for electricity service. In the second part of the Federation of BiH, more specifically in Western Herzegovina, HZ HB's Elektroprivreda HZ HB refused to charge a fee. In the entity, Republika Srpska's fee is carried out through the Inkasa Service of Republika Srpska and by electronic means. The distribution of the tv fee is carried out in a way 50% belongs to BHRT while 25% belongs to entity televisions. It should be pointed out that there has been no regulation of a system of forced collection of RTT fees, different legal solutions in entities of the Law on the Executive Procedure of the Federation of BiH and the Law on the Executive Procedure of Republika Srpska entities are different. Today we are witnessing that BHRT is in an extremely difficult financial crisis, which has also caused the Tax Administration of the Federation of BiH to block BHRT's account due to the debt to contribute. BHRT owes the Tax Administration of the Federation of BiH 19 million KM and RTRS owes BHRT 63 million KM from the collected fee in Republika Srpska, which it has charged since 2017. If something is not done urgently, there could be a shut-down of the BiH Public TV service covering the whole country, leading to a number of other negative consequences. It should be noted that one of the 14 conditions of BiH's accession to the EU is both the responsibility of the state to work and the stable financing of the Public TV Service, so we propose the following conclusions: 1. We ask the BiH Federation Tax Administration to unblock the BHRT account already done by the Federation of BiH Parliament in cooperation with the government. 2. We urge the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the current situation regarding the financing of the Public Service as soon as possible. 3. We ask the competent court to speed up the settlement of cases relating to the repayment of the debt from the collected RTV tax. 56 4. We ask the government of the Federation of BiH and the parliament of the Federation of BiH to bring its Law on the executive procedure of the Federation of BiH into line with the same law in Republika Srpska. 5. We propose to the BiH Public TV System Committee to develop a new model of billing for a TV fee that would uniquely collect RTV tax across the BiH area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11441	Thank you. Mr. Nermin Nikšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always difficult to speak in a situation where you are in one position, therefore, as previous colleagues have said, especially Mr. Emrić, in a situation where you are receiving and having orderly privileges, wages and everything else, and you are talking about the fate of people who have been working without pay for months. Unfortunately, the government's attitude towards the Public Service is obvious by the state of today's BHRT. However, I am also sorry that according to the fate of BHRT, 870 workers and their families, it should not be forgotten that there is literally a family, therefore, where both family members and husbands work, and so you can imagine what kind of situation they are in when they don't receive earned wages for months. So we haven't really shown ourselves in this House in our relationship with these people. In a conversation with union representatives, the key was the agreement, i.e. the removal of the tax administration's blockade, as counterpart Osmanović said, the blockade was lifted, some funds were paid into account to pay off the benefits of those workers, and then, then, the money was laid down, this one, for the tax administration's obligations, and here again, no salaries were paid. So, everything that we're about to say here, and everything in which our discussions can go, it doesn't help these people unless fate is resolved, and unless the issue of debt that exists towards BHRT is really resolved, because in this too, when you talk about the fate of public servicemen, public enterprises, businesses, institutions that have been brought into negative business here, we can't put as much burden on these people there, because they have judgments, they have also recorded debts, but nobody is doing anything to make those debts real to BHRT, but we're very jealous to block BHRT's accounts and to break their obligations to the IRS, which are undeniable and which no one questions. I, of course, here are my colleagues who read it, I'm not going to read this information, this information that we got from the board of directors, I see and they've proposed some of the things, or they're appealing, they're looking, they're calling on their founders to get involved and help them solve the current crisis, and I would actually end up with only one conclusion. Here I will also support these conclusions that Mr. Osmanović made and which Mr. Emrić made, but in fact there is only one conclusion here: To ask the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Resorship to do urgently, not all that is in their power, to do everything possible to remove the BHRT blockades, to normalise the functioning and to ensure the payment of debts that exist under this Public Service. Everything else is a postponement of agony, again just a prolonging of the problem that will escalate in the next two months. And this is not just a problem with BHRT, and I think that there is room to include especially the Federation Government and the entity government, for the simple reason that by shutting down, standing or blocking BHRT's work, the process is stopped on Federal TV, because 57 I remind you that all material and technical means are BHRT's property and what Federal TV is doing is practically doing in a way that it rents from BHRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11443	Thank you. Mr. Zukan Helez, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11444	I thank the chairman. Of course, I think this is a very important topic, almost all of us gave support to these people when they went public that they were going to stop broadcasting because they didn't receive salaries and because a bunch of debt, because they just couldn't function anymore. I think the key problem, and I'm not sure that anyone before me was talking about it, is that this is one of the laws that was passed at some time when it had a big impact, they had representatives of the international community and it was passed with the aim of forming some roof law and it was the Law on the Public TV System and it regulated all these broadcasters, i.e. radio-television services, two entity and this state. However, there are, of course, many gaps here, and this Law has not been brought to an end. This Law provides for a corporation which, whether or not, co-ordinates the work of three of these services, two entities and one state and here in Article 14(7) is clearly said – that the corporation is obliged to take care of how much expenditure there is and that there must always be more income from expenditure. The corporation itself is one of the key elements in the funding segment, but the corporation has never recovered and has not been established. I think the only way to help these people out there is to amend the Law on the Public TV System and especially those members that regulate funding. Another way to help specifically except to complain that it's hard for these people to have loans there, etc. is what burdens us the entire system within BiH, which is the BiH judiciary. Now this debt that exists is because you don't really know who's in charge, so it's being transferred from one court station to another for a few months, and so these people, until it's over, can't function as a public service either, and of course, they're both private and their family members. So it would be serious to deal with a change, systemically amending these laws, in order for people to permanently solve, people who work there to solve these problems permanently. However, since this is the Council of Ministers at the end of the term of office, that I do not know that they have done anything, I do not believe they will do this when it comes to the TV system. And what I can't help but feel, I think, is that there's some intention in this whole thing. This is one of the, one of the symbols of the BiH state and, of course, some people care about living well from this country, that this symbol of the state of BiH is shut down, is noticed daily and is not just the case with the RTTV system, or BHRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11445	Mr. Damir Arnaut, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11446	Thank you, Chairman. So, in order not to repeat this all that my colleagues said before me and Mr. Emrić, and Mr. Helez, Mr. Nikšić, I will point to the fact that BHRT's funds, I am talking about 58 material assets, so, pillars, other infrastructures are essential to many things in the country. If the BHRT is excluded from the current in a specific part of BiH territory and IDDDEA which sets its equipment on the BHRT pillars cannot issue ID cards, passports, driver's licenses, etc. A number of other services will be compromised. Also, one of the colleagues has already mentioned this, BHRT serves at least Federal TV with equipment, cameramen and other personnel. However, that this is indeed what, the greatest danger of such debates, is that everything remains in debate and it is very important that, I fully agree with Mr. Helez, that this Council of Ministers, here, demonstrates to these empty benches at the very least that they absolutely do not care about BHRT, for the people who work on BHRT, for the symbol that represents, for other problems such as this about ID cards and passports that can produce all over the economy and various sectors of BiH, and not only do they not care but they know nothing about it, and this long-term solution can come only if citizens bring Oktoberfest to BiH this year. Meanwhile, there is something that can be done, we have a situation, it is generally known from the means of public information that the Republika Srpska BHRT TV owes about 60 million marks on behalf of unpaid taxis. Regular payments were until 2017, so no one is obviously challenging jurisdiction or legal basis, but it is obviously about some attempts at theft and manipulation. At the same time, we have a situation where the Federal TV RTRS owes about 15 million marks due to untranslated funds on its own tv charges. With the law prescribing a rather complex system of sharing charged tv fees, only entity broadcasters can collect on their own, in the territories of their entities, the exception is Brcko District, and then 50% of both entity broadcasters are required to switch to BHRT and 25% to each other. And since, of course, FTV collects more taxes, because the Federation is more numerous, larger, etc. TV Federation eventually owes more to RTRS than vice versa. The RST Federation doesn't pay for a while, it doesn't transfer those funds to RTRS, considering that RTRS doesn't transfer them either, and when it's out, that I use this kind of colloquial term, the RTRS owes the RTRS 15 million marks. Club Our Party – The Independent Block suggests a conclusion, which will soon be shared to you: That the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Federation for funds that, on behalf of unpaid funds, owes RTRS 15 million marks to BHRT with the aim of resolving a part of the debt of more than 60 million KM, which, in the name of unpaid RTRS, owes to BHRT. Call whatever you want, the citizens will understand that it's about alignment, beatings, whatever you want. Second conclusion: The Council of Ministers is also asked by the Council of Ministers, which is not present here, either minstar or the Deputy Minister, to ensure within 30 days an effective payment of the RTV fee in all parts of BiH, we know very well that the RTV tax is not paid evenly in all parts of BiH, and to ensure that all debts on behalf of the RTV tax by other broadcasters are paid by the authorities, as well as to provide all information on the avoidance of payment and payment of debts to the competent prosecutors. Here I also agree with Mr. Helez, that there is a big problem here and that the prosecution simply doesn't do their job, which does not process unconscious service work or abuse of office when someone simply decides they won't transfer something, and there I also include 59 of the RTV Federation. It is really necessary to put one pressure on the Federal TV to transfer these 15 million to BHRT because eventually the Federal TV large part and exists on the back of BHRT using their cameramen, their other employees, their equipment, and it's on tariffs, as I've been informed, which are over 20 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11447	Thank you. No more reports, Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Before, I apologize to Snježana White, I ask the club chiefs to try to tell the MPs to be here at the border we're a quorum, and we have good conditions to get close to the break, so please keep an eye on that. Get Mrs. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11448	Thank you, Chairman. Here, first of all, let me really express my impressions of Mr. Arnaut's proposal maločas turn the House of Representatives into, as it is said, a court that makes some executive judgments, so we're going to order one level of government to transfer to other levels..., pardon that some money from one account we're ordering and from Federal TV that we have nothing to do with, that we transfer BHRT, I really feel the need to, under quotes, impress such, uh, such a wonderful proposal, what everything they want to turn into, and what all MPs imagine they can and need. Now we're going to be specific about debt, mutual claims and debts, etc. between the three public services, they are as you know, and it is said in part, but very casually, in this Information that they are currently a matter of courts, that in the first degree the verdict was made in favour of the Republika Srpska TV and that I will not say another word about it until the courts bring these relations together. As far as the total revenue is concerned, it is interesting even in this Information as to how the situation has been going since 2017. I'll tell you why. Because the total total of the revenues collected in 2012-2016 were the following amounts, not... amounts of absolute, 110 million on the level of Republika Srpska, on the territory, and 111 million on the Federation level, on the territory of the Federation and, of course, nobody was bothered at that time, is that so, that the citizens of Republika Srpska, for which we all know that there are about twice as many as in the Federation, had collected until that year the same amount of funds as the Federation. Therefore, of course, on the basis of the numerous arguments collected, the Republika Srpska TV had the right to do what it had done, and how it would end with regard to their claims, etc. That, uh, that's what I said the courts should finish. As far as this house's politics are concerned, I'm going to illustrate it to one, and in general the functionality, and also the needs of this house, I'm going to illustrate it with the following data. Namely, as you can see there are about 900 employees, who, as we all know, have one TV program, one radio and a portal. Republika Srpska's TV and should be on... according to this current solution to include 50% of the collected funds from the RTV tax. On TV Republika Srpska, which currently produces two channels, has a radio, has a portal, works and employs about 600 people and works, so they do. In doing so, the management of this house is at all negatively declared when it comes to, let's say, when 60 gets an offer to buy some of the rights and other public services, etc. which really falls under the heading believe it or not. As for specific information, it is unacceptable for the SNSD Club because it contains, it does not contain relevant data on the basis of which some quality conclusions could possibly be drawn. However, I will draw attention to this one untruth, a great untruth, which says – that it could be if this Service was shut down so that it could come to a full media darkness. So we have two more, right, there's Federal TV, there's Republika Srpska TV, and it's not true. And as for who the symbol is, it's his personal matter and perception, this country works out how it works, and as far as we're concerned, I think that the debts of this house could be resolved safely and better by the availability and some kind of property that is there and this one to do something, let that management take care of anything other than the employment of personnel by the proper and territorial and national structure, which, of course, also reflects on the programming scheme. And I would also like to say, which is why all of this together, the citizens of Republika Srpska do not view it as their public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11449	Wrong quote, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11450	So I think it's crazy to even explain that the law prescribed that the TV tax is shared in the way it's shared, so I absolutely did not innovate anything by it and it's absolutely clear to Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. But now you see this, you're talking about 600 people on RTRS per million people, about how many Republika Srpska has, taking RTRS all the taxes on the entity's territory, not moving from 2017 to 2017 to BHRT, or to Federal TV, and still not serving anyone with work and equipment, and then comparing it, you're giving it as a positive example of 600 employees to millions of people collecting all of that, all of that money, not serving anyone, giving no one that money, comparing it to a television that works in space, and it's responsible for the space where three and a few million people, where there are eight hundred and a few people employed, so only two hundred more than the RTRS, and operating on a space where more than three times the population lives. They do not have the opportunity to collect taxes on the territory of any other entity, depending, therefore, on the goodwill of RTRS and Federal TV to transfer that money to them and to serve with the people and resources of entity Federal TV. Now I don't understand why Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać is so much defending federal TV here, why she's so much defending the interests of federal TV. Because you see, federal TV won't transfer those 15 million to RTRS, owes them to RTRS, but it doesn't intend to transfer them to RTRS. At the same time, RTRS owes 60 million marks to BHRT under the law. These 15 million would cover, it would be just a hat, so, uh, what BHRT belongs to, but that would mean a lot to the people who work there and these things that I've been talking about, that are very dangerous. So, if the current is turned off in some part of BiH, no IDDEEA, IDDEEA devices stop functioning because they depend on the current of these columns on which they are installed, etc. So, I really don't see why you'd be here. SNSD supported keeping this money on federal TV. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11451	Miss Sanja Vulić, please. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11452	Thank you, Chairman. So when it comes to the situation in BHRT, it should be said that the only and only culprits for the situation as it is are the management of BHRT, no members of the Management Board, no politics, but only the management of BHRT. It should be recalled that the payment of the TV fee in Republika Srpska was almost 100%, and that by 2017, the Republika Srpska RTV had paid its part neatly as defined in the law, while the Federation did not receive a certain amount as it should because the charging is very low and it should be considered why it is so and why the Federation does not want to make it possible for the Republika Srpska's TV to have a part that really belongs to it. When I say that management is the sole culprit, I will remind you that the 2008 audit has made it clear that BHRT has no evidence that the owner of the properties on the land he owns and that he accepts as his own, the same observation and the negative assessment of the audits confirmed in 2016, where they re-established that BHRT is re-acquiring facilities for which BHRT does not possess evidence of ownership. There was no initiative from BHRT leadership to correct the situation clearly shows their apathy and their need and their hope that certain political representatives will help them to finance and achieve their objectives, while they continue to represent only one-national policy and programming schemes. I regret to point out that Mr. Arnaut is legally certain to have a basis for proposing all this, but the question is whether, whether he has a moral and ethical right to do so, given that my noun, his wife, is one of the editors-in-chiefs on this television since April of last year, and it was named by the current current current director. Of course, I say, if you have a legal basis, I'm sure yes, and whether it's ethical, whether it's moral, whether it's a conflict of interest, or whether it's an appraisal of the public. What I find extremely unacceptable and can't understand is what I would like to hear from BHRT's director – Why did he extend the contracts to Srbin who were on a contract from last year to a month, and to all Bošnjak who were on a specific contract extended it to three months? The truth is these are contracts on a certain basis, but why discrimination and on what basis? We also all know that an extremely small number at the level of the Srbin statistical error is working in BHRT and that, let's say, is not the problem, because we Srbin are to blame for not pointing it out and for this we are not struggling to have a national quota that belongs to us when it comes to the number of employees. But what's the problem, someone here was talking from a colleague, is we embarrassed. I ask all of you – is it a shame to keep you quiet when you publicly call for the murder of a Srpkinja woman of one of the BH radio employees? When there was an invitation to the Pejke Medić link to kill itself, to rape, to burn, that all Srbin should disappear from BHRT, you were silent, probably exulting, you think that's the right thing to do, and then you ask the question why we have no interest in fighting for BHRT. We and how we have an interest in fighting for BHRT, but BHRT that will represent the interests of all three peoples living in BiH as Dejton defined it, which is that there are three peoples living here with the same rights that you, in two entities, are constantly trying to challenge through practice. And lastly, I will just say that BHRT is the best example of BiH, a non-functional state that is also the most complex example of what needs to be done with Srbin, which is that, as much as possible, it degrades them, scares them and drive them out of the BiH area, because it is obvious that Srbin are intruding wherever they are, and even at this minimum statistical percentage that is a mistake. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11453	Wrong quote, Mr. Damir Arnaut, second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11454	I thank the chairman and thank you for your patience, especially with the members of your club, taking into account your high moral value. You know what, Mrs. Vulić, it's good that this debate is not being held on a committee where people are sitting, because I would tell you that when you talk about my wife, you get up, especially someone like you, and you never think of it again. My wife became a journalist more than 20 years ago, not, as you said, whether she asked for a salary of 5,000 marks. So, these are people, you've already made your point about journalists, and you've already shown that you've been saying that you wanted to do their job, that you're making less money to be a journalist. Therefore, hold fast from this sort of thing. I know the Law of Conflict of Interest very well, I know all these rules very well, and I know very well that when I talk here about something that is within the jurisdiction of the House of Representatives as a general question, that I have fully acted and acted in accordance with all these principles. And I'm really sorry that the quality of the discussion in these bodies is getting lower and lower and that's why I pointed to this. Learn from your colleague, I do not ask you at all to learn from anyone from other parties, learn from someone like Mr. Radmanović. Learn from someone who was your mentor when you were in the Council of Nations and who is the secretary of the House of Representatives, Mr. Reljić in his former meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11455	Wrong quote, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11456	Yeah, I know, that's why at first I thanked you for your patience. Learn from these people before you answer, and now if you're gonna talk about my wife again, get up again.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11457	We continue the debate, but please do not make personal calls or insults where it is not the place, if the allegations are wrong, then you know why the allegations are cited and so answer. Mr. Saša Magazinović, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11458	I wouldn't go into this discussion between my colleagues, but I'd like to correct one false allegation. Miss Vulić said – Srbin are intruding wherever they are. So that's incorrect. Stupid, aggressive, exclusive and people who hate to bother, whether Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak or others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11459	Miss Sanja Vulić, guilty of allegation. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11460	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. My colleague Arnaut could have noticed that I also got up when I was talking, I got up now, but not out of respect for you, Mr Arnaut, but out of respect for your wife, who I can talk about here all superlative, and that's why I didn't mention her in a negative, but in a positive context, I absolutely don't get into her professional and professional qualifications, because I know they're brilliant. I was talking here about your morality, whether it's a conflict of interest and whether it's moral, about you, not about her, and her every honor and in every respect. And when it comes to the level of debate here, you are the ones who set the level of debate, whether silence and this gentlemanly attitude of Mr. Radmanović suit you, I am not getting into it, but you see the policies changing, the way you work changes, so get used to getting louder and louder and more, say, more and more combative people, which may not suit you. And I'm certainly glad to share the opinion that I had a great mentor, Mr. Reljić, and I'm still learning from him, and let's just say that I've been keeping my mouth shut, and I haven't really heard from your wife about him that he's an extraordinary expert, a remarkable worker and a woman for every admiration and respect, and in any case I admire her, this one, because she has the patience to share her life with a lawyer like you, so welcome to Sanja.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11461	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, unfortunately, one part of me because of a call from the press was outside the hall when you talked about this information and I didn't pick up everything that my colleagues were saying, but here it doesn't matter how important it is to the state of BHRT. I just want one piece of the state to say it the way I see it. So, in the last term, I was a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications and we've been trying to solve the issue of public service status, we have the Law on the Public TV System, we have the Law on BHRT, so. And we've been on the trail of a solution a few times, you know, I don't know if any of our colleagues have said, if he's already spoken, I apologize if I may repeat myself, simply the law that regulated these issues, including the BHRT Act, has not been implemented. Simply, therefore, an institution that should have been involved in collecting fees for the possession of a tv receiver is a corporation that has never been established. I'll remind you, therefore, that the law that is mostly imposed. So, as far as we Hrvat are concerned, we, here, can testify, so, in this term, perhaps not even once, and even before the end of last term, we stopped talking about the Croatian-language channel. So, we are dissatisfied with the state that there are no channels in Croatian language in public TV systems, the public TV system and on TV services. So, you know our attitude towards the memory of me not reopening a debate that is unnecessary here. But I was on the occasion of last term, so as a member of this commission and as a representative and my own will to propose some solutions to resolve the way in which the tv fees were charged, I even suggested, I remember, an Austrian model of one, by forming a special agency. However, the law needs to be changed for all of this. We have reached a conclusion in the last term to ask the Council of Ministers to pass a new Law on BHRT, or RTTV system at all. However, this has never happened, and I'm sure 64 without a new law can't be solved at all. Also, in the past term, in this truth, Bog has not, in any way, suggested that, when there was a neural state in BHRT as well as today which is... helping a one-time assistance from the BiH institutions budget, we HDZ had nothing to do with it, although we were simply dissatisfied with it to help. It seems to me that one house that perhaps deserves our attention most with these particulars and... about which Mrs. Vulić spoke and Mrs. Snježana, I don't know but who, therefore, is clearly aware of the settings and attitudes there, all of which I agree, but really without the new law can't, because we were simply reviewing the law then, he in most of his and most important issues has not been implemented. It has not been implemented there, for example, it says that BHRT, but of course other public broadcasters are obliged, so to broadcast and edit the program in the languages of the constituent peoples. How are you going to edit it if you don't have an office? You see, everything is broken, everything was running away from the problem, everything, nothing has been solved for years, and the law is also this story about this way of billing the RV fees long ago, this, recognized that it should stop, so, over the electric, these, via the electric suppliers, or the phone, it's the law that can't exist forever, so there's exactly a provision when it's supposed to stop, it's supposed to be found, it's looking for a new solution. So, to sum up, I'm in favour of, here I see some conclusions you've suggested, that maybe you're looking for a new way to access a new law, otherwise this is, this law cannot be solved, and perhaps at the request of the BHRT administration to help one-time, to overcome this difficult economic situation, I personally don't mind. And in the end, I really can't help but finish, since I didn't ask for the corrections of the wrong assumption, so I would really ask Mr. Arnaut not to talk about honesty anymore, I mean so much of that honesty, uh, I don't know what I'm going to do with that honesty anymore. So, don't tell me again about Borjana Krišto who went straight through the elections, you didn't pass Mr. Arnaut, you got the compensation mandate from Mr. Radončić, so you left him, so now you're in our party, so now you're giving us the sense here that the Constitution should, therefore, be compensated, you didn't get, that you got four thousand votes, how many people on your list got more votes than you so they're not in Parliament. You're more on the list you've been on, but by the will of your president, you're here, with no voters, not just you, but since you insist on that honesty, I really, I mean, go through with it. Now, we know that you're honest, we know that you saved the state, we know that you're white bread, we never know how much you saved, where that money went, we know that you're this, because you say, I'll remind you, today at the beginning of the session – I'm white bread, I'm this, I'm that. Give us pain, give us one, let us breathe. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11463	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11464	Thank you, Chairman. So I don't see where the correction of the wrong quote is here, even the man has returned to the previous agenda. Yes, Mr. Lovrinović, I've received a thousand votes more than the Borjana Krišto who is sitting, but at this point she's not even entitled to sit in the College, and Borjana Krišto is, she was stoned by her voters in Livno. And I'm not afraid to cross the streets, so where five thousand more people, a thousand more than she voted for. Where is Dragan Čović's legitimacy? He didn't even go to the last election, so give me what you're talking about, and there he is sitting in the House of the Peoples. So, don't say, uh, things especially abuse what I've reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11465	Please stick to the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kojović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11466	Thank you. Chairman, I'm really in the spirit of what you said at the beginning, considering the holiday that is, in progress, to try to do today's session as efficiently as possible. But I, look, if you're going to allow what we just saw, then I'm going to have a discussion at every point of 15 minutes and we're not going to finish today. So the choice is next, you've shortened our discussions with, what the Rules of Procedure tells us, 10 minutes to 5 minutes and we've accepted it, in return I ask you not to allow us to go out in debates outside the agenda, if you are unable to do so then we go to a normal session that will take three days, because there are 88 points.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11467	Wrong quote, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11468	Mr. Chairman knows the Rules of Procedure well. So the correcting of the wrong quote is the correcting of the wrong quote, therefore, whatever is said under any point if someone has stated it wrong, then someone who wants to correct it. Fifteen minutes and I'll talk, but I can't, I can't let him chair me at every point, but he won't give me the chair. Therefore, this is not what you want. I'm just saying, so, what Mr. Arnaut is, I'm abuser, and he's not abuser, so he's been massaging our brains all day. His constituency knows the value... of how many votes can be received in his constituency, and how much in the constituency that Mrs. Krišto was in.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11469	Wrong quote, Mr. Lorinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11470	So, we haven't talked about it, but it's a misquote correction, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11471	So what's the correction to the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11472	The correction of the wrong allegation, therefore, that Mr. Čović was not elected directly, he was elected, it is known that in the House of Peoples, as everyone else. Sir... The House of Representatives has not been elected, the lady has been elected to her constituency, which has as many votes as she has. So it's an incorrect quote and it's enough of him to stop saying it. Yes, it is. The nadal electoral law allowed him to be here, massage our brains, and keep him quiet.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11473	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure, for the third time. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11474	You understand, Mr. Radmanović, I think you should take care of this, not me reporting for the third time for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I mean, I mean, really because of what you said at the beginning of the session, I refrain from asking for a half-hour break, and I think you do, by allowing this kind of behavior to essentially call a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11475	Okay, that's understandable. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the hearing. No more reports. I'm closing point 17. Please, if possible, we'll be focused for another hour. The assessment is if we work effectively, I agree with those who object to participating in a debate about something that is not the agenda at all, but you can't always interrupt everyone. So, no, we got to see who's breaking up here now, no one's been reported, I've concluded the debate, and I wanted to ask you how to proceed, and you signed up for two. So if we're gonna do that, then there's no Rules of Procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Kojović, I will give you both my word to you and Saša Magazinović, but I ask you now to criticise yourself for violating the Rules of Procedure. So I've just concluded the argument because no one's been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11477	You see, the time for intervention, so this was the fourth, fifth step, but to shorten the story completely, I on behalf of the Club Our Party – The Independent Block mourns a half-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11478	Thirty-minute breaks, because I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure, but it's not fair to the other participants in the debate. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we work, not all of us, but there's more than a quorum and we can start working. 67 Ladies and gentlemen, point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a Decision appointing the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, Proposer: Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01,02- 34-1-939/21 of 29/04.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11481	By honoring the agreement with the College, especially the colleagues who fast, I'll cut the maximum. At the time, we had a problem with multiple names, especially the accent on Vladimir Jurišić and Antoni Beus. Vladimir Jurišić is the Vlado from the "potkivanje“ affair, Antonio Beus man who is in an obvious conflict of interest. At that time, we mentioned a number of people who do not meet the conditions, i.e. the criteria that RAC members cannot be politically engaged, which is easily searched on Google can be seen that there are people on the list who show to their biographies that they are very politically engaged, which is their right of freedom, and I support them in political engagement, but then disagrees with the RAC Council where they are proposed. In fact, we are today completing the procedure that we started at last session, where the ruling SNSD-SDA-HDZ coalition proposed a conclusion, which you were talking about, to suspend the procedure and to demand a change of the list of ministers' councils in line with the discussions, we all supported it together. We also talked about the fact that there was no respect for the Law on Gender Equality, that the rest of us gave up our conclusions, the Council of Ministers did not reach agreement, and this is, in fact, just to be clear, the College's decision to complete the procedure and vote on a list that is already through discussion, and through your conclusion, assessed as unacceptable. Thank you. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11482	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11483	Well, I really don't know how the same material could have been delivered to us that we brought back, with reasons. The ministry's letter, which was still in the summer last year, said they were not in charge of determining compliance with the conditions, nor of doing anything on that basis, but only that they had been authorised as a proposal based on whether or not the commission's proposal. If so, then the request was to be submitted to the competent authority, therefore, the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly should be delivered to the competent authority and notified to the proposings, i.e. the House of Representatives or, uh, immediately delivered to that conclusion, because I do not remember ever seeing it, I may be wrong, I may be wrong, but this is the first time I've read that, so, the Ministry of Communication and Traffic is being advertised to the competent and that they can't do so. Therefore, I am still standing by to inform us here that our conclusion is not respected, if it was to be decided by another body instead of the Ministry, then our conclusion should have been delivered to that authority, and that we have a further procedure, that is, to do what the House of Representatives wanted done. Indeed, there has been an eclad violation of the Law on Gender Equality, all acts of the Agency, all of the RAC acts are called for gender equality and an obligation has been established in the selection of organs to respect the Law on Gender Equality, and indeed, indeed, it is too much to pay any attention to this Act and that no one is affected when it is not respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11484	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11485	Thank you, Chairman. You see, it's not that simple, the Council of Ministers couldn't agree on a new list, which suggests that some in the Council of Ministers were unacceptable to get off the list or Beus, or Godfather Vlado, or both. But here I will remind you of what Mr. Magazinović has already launched, so this Vladimir Jurišić is the person for whom former VSTV President Milan Tegeltija, current adviser to Mr. Dodik, enters the proceedings and says – this is the godfather Vlado, you can do anything in front of him. So that's the man, the best man on the American blacklist and someone on the Council of Ministers, who cares if he stays on this list for the RAC Council. On the side now that the Council of Ministers is unable to appoint the RAC Council, which is one of the reasons why governments come into serious problems in organised societies, but here, so we have a man, the godfather of the American blacklist. However, we already have two in the House of Peoples from different parties. So we'll see the same thing today after the vote, of course we'll vote against, but it's a shame that there were enough votes in the Council of Ministers at all for this list to be originally addressed to this House, and then that some of them went and insisted that these people stay on this list, and we'll see today by the votes of who is to be best man Vlado and Beus in the RAK Council. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11486	Thank you, thank you. Mrs Alma Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11487	Thank you, Chairman. I would only remind myself of the provisions of the Communications Act, which speak in Article 39(7) – that if the Parliamentary Assembly refuses to elect one or more candidates from the RAC Council list, it shall submit the list back to the Council of Ministers, which is due within 30 days to act according to our conclusion. Stav (8) says -- if the Council of Ministers does not act after the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly immediately calls for a new public competition to elect members of the RAC Council. This is Article 39 (8). I suggest we call a new competition right now. And when it comes to gender equality, it is not a general provision that exists only in that law, it is a provision that explicitly stands in the Law on Communications in Article 36(4) – that there must be equal representation of candidates of both sexes in the RAC bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11488	Thank you. Please submit a written proposal for a conclusion, Mrs. Čolo. I'm closing the hearing and point 18. Point 19. Ad. 19. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly to bring the text of the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No 01,02-02-1-764/21 of 30.04.2021. The law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period before the Court of BiH was adopted in a different text in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, which requires the establishment of a temporary joint commission to determine the identical text of the law. The House of Peoples is a joint committee of delegates' names: Sredoje Nović, Munib Jusufović and Marina Pendeš. The House of Representatives' College proposed that MPs: Predrag Kožul, Alma Čolo and Obren Petrović be appointed to the Interim Joint Commission. 70 I'm opening a debate. Mr. Damir Arnatu, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11490	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you see, no, this law is now in this procedure because the House of Representatives of General and Entity adopted four amendments to this Act, which were made in collaboration with the OSCE. HDZ voted against these amendments at the House of Representatives. The House of Peoples has not adopted these amendments, and now if a committee for reconciliation is formed in which two members of the Croatian people are sitting in the order of the HDZ, and the Rules of Procedure prescribes that this committee for the alignment of the decision is made by a majority which includes one vote from each nation, means that the HDZ that did not support these OSCE amendments veto these amendments, contrary to the will of the general and entity majority in this House. I therefore propose instead of Mr. Kožul, since Marina Pendeš is from the House of the Peoples already from HDZ, instead of Mr. Kožul I propose Mr. Vlatko Glavaš and ask that the House declare the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11491	Thank you. I'm closing point 19 because I don't see anyone checking in anymore. Point 20. Ad. 20. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Damir Arnaut, who is proposing to the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt within 30 days a decision on the quality of oil liquid fuels required for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the World Trade Organisation and to be referred to in parliamentary procedure, No: 01-50-1-267/22 of 17.02.2022. The College has appointed a competent commission, a commission for foreign trade and customs. The Commission delivered its opinion and supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Finalising point 20. Point 21. Ad. 21. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which is asked by the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to prepare and submit to the parliamentary procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Safety of Transport on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, which will significantly strengthen sanctions for certain acts prescribed by that law, No: 01-50-1-352-2/22 of 07.03.2022. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11495	I'll only have two sentences to explain why this initiative. The document submitted by the BiH Institutions' Office for Audit to the Budget and Finance Commission of the House of Representatives indicated that all BiH institutions were obliged to end their activities by the end of April 2014 to comply with the provisions of the Decision on the principles for determining the internal structure of the BiH Authority and the Decision on the classification of posts and criteria for the description of jobs in BiH institutions. So, for the full seven years 22 BiH institutions have not implemented this harmonisation, I have asked these institutions parliamentary questions and I have received different answers, from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury being selectively giving or not giving consent to the systemisation rules, to some rules in the making, etc. So that's why this initiative is to finally set a deadline when these rules need to be aligned, because I really think it's already eight years since it's not done.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11496	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate and I'm closing point 22. 72 Point 23. Ad. 23. Review of the parliamentary initiative Mirjana Marinković Lepić, which is being ordered by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, is correcting, within 90 days, the price of the fee paid when issuing assurances of compliant obligations based on indirect taxes, other incomes and taxis, number: 01-50-1-543/22 of 06.04.2022. As a competent commission, the College appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget, the Commission delivered its Opinion, supported the modified initiative, which reads – The Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH and the Management Board for indirect taxation is proposed to launch an initiative, within 90 days, under the Council of Ministers, which will correct the price of the fee paid when issuing assurances on compliant obligations on the basis of indirect taxes, other incomes and fees. I'm opening a debate. Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11498	...these two sentences. Namely, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions has made an impact review of the fees and fees paid to, therefore, as a type, whether, parafiscal duties and among other things, it has been found that no appropriate methodology has been applied where the level of the fee should be proportionate to the work done to obtain a particular document. Also, instead of respecting the moratorians introduced to these charges, BiH has increased the number of these charges by over 50, it seems to me 56 and what, here, in this particular impact review given as an example, is this belief about, on compliant indirect taxes. Namely, this tax totals 30 KM, namely 10 is only for submission, and 20 for issuing a conviction, which is, which can be established by a simple push on a button, is whether, there is software for it, and the prescribed form and this fee is disproportionate especially, which I suppose we need to relieve the businessmen of these parafiscal charges, and not to impose it on them. And plus, here are the victims of those legal persons who regularly meet their obligations and are already the Ministry of Finance and a request for this tax to be reduced. Yesterday we heard the argument that they only returned because it wasn't filled out by the indirect tax administration, and here we modified the session of this initiative, because I really think we should reward people who regularly fulfil their obligations, not punish them at the level of the tax.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11499	Thank you. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing point 23. 73 Point 24. Ad. 24. Proposal for a resolution, Proposer: Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, issue: 01-02-1-544/22 of 07.04.2022. The resolution is... The motion for a resolution was submitted in accordance with Article 163. Rules of Procedure, you've received a motion for a resolution. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's a little bit of time, I hope you have more patience. Namely, I will only read to you, and you will see that there is a reason why I read it, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which say, in Article 163 - the House can express its position on important political issues and establish the political guidelines that the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH and/or other BiH institutions will implement. In fact, here you have seen today, and I must admit, what the chairman would say, that I have been involved, in the debates that, in this mandate, and perhaps more than this term, lead to nothing. So, not to exempt anyone, all the holders of the duties listed here in this Rules of Procedure very often, and what is worrying is increasingly being acted unconstitutional, when they declare, when they go somewhere, when they take views and opinions anywhere in any meeting, when legal solutions are proposed, when initiatives are proposed, decisions etc. very often it is not based at all in constitutional law, in the Constitution. My impression is, I don't know if you're going to share it with me, my impression is that a lot of us in this term or maybe the last part of this mandate, but I think the whole term, if not part of last term, has seen it as a chance to come to constitutional changes the way he wants, and anything to go into procedure, any kind, any way, uses it and abuse and behavior and representation to international institutions, anywhere, as a chance to change the Constitution the way he or she wants and wants. I can even understand it, because sometimes a political moment happens, which my colleague Kojović would say, not to be philosophising too much, uh, sometimes happens when the Constitution has to change, when some regulations have to be changed, some standards of behavior, of course it can't last forever, I agree with that, have opportunities and procedures designed for such a thing. And it's been trying, even trying to change the Constitution, and I know the suggestions that were in both the previous term and this mandate, and some are in some kind of procedure, but that's obviously not going. We've brought a situation, in my opinion, in my opinion, and I'm not saying this for the club, in my opinion, up to, I don't know if it's a heavy word, heat. That is why I have been thinking about how to contribute to the return to one way of conduct that should be predictable in Parliament, which should be recognizable in Parliament, which should reflect the situation in the Parliament etc. etc. responsibility and all sorts of things. As I'm talking about myself, I'm talking about myself, and I'm not talking about anyone. Nothing else has occurred to me but to try to get us all back, therefore, to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and that time is, therefore, especially this is, behold, an election year, as we will see, we will stop it. I criticized, remember, the work of the parliamentary majority from the very beginning, even in the last term, so it didn't work out, etc. 74 So, I appeal to make it clear that this resolution, of course, will not make anyone a special commitment, and it does express our political position on what I'm talking about, that I'm not spreading the story further, I can even list, uh, details and cases when it happened, in my opinion, absolutely breaking the Constitution and nothing, absolutely breaking the Constitution. Even when we sometimes work past the Rules of Procedure, you must know that the Rules of Procedure have been drawn directly from the Constitution when we are working on this Parliament. So I propose this resolution that is seemingly very simple, but it invites us, therefore, to return to something that we have agreed between us, to return to what is meant to be done, to return to this Rules of Procedure. I don't want to remind myself now how many times I've spoken, and others have said what we do about breaking and acting. I hope that by adopting this resolution, that's where I was named, I must say, therefore, the protection of the constitutional order, so it was a bit pretentious to me, because yet one resolution cannot come above the Constitution. Let it remain called either by me or be called about perhaps constitutional behavior of the holder of power. So, I call on you colleagues to say, here we are, not to say and not to banalise this Reozlucija or us, we are all full of mouths, we love BiH, we love BiH, not to vote on who loves Bosnia or does not like Bosnia, let us commit ourselves to this Resolution in some way so that we can invite our people who, and ourselves who act out of our own way, don't have to do with this resolution and what we have spoken about it. So we should act like it, but in my opinion, we're fat, fat, we're out of it. I hope to find understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11502	Niko one's answering for a hearing. I must say that we had a dilemma when we prepared this to vote immediately after this point, because one member of the Rules of Procedure says when it comes to amendments and resolutions are voted immediately. I suggest we leave the vote with, when the vote is total, we won't make a mistake. I don't see anyone reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm counting on that to be accepted. I'm closing point 24. Before we move to the next points, I suggest we bring together the debate on points 25 to 30, it's about giving consent to ratification of the agreement. So, the proposal to now come out with a vote to unify the debate on points 25 to 30. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority, they're just two abstentions and one against, 31 for. I find that we have made a decision to bring together the debate on points 25 to 30. Ad. 25. - Ad. 30. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement The Foreign Affairs Commission has delivered its opinion and agrees that the previous conditions have been met for the House of Representatives to give consent to ratification. I am opening a debate on points 25 to 30. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would only like one example of one of these approvals for ratification, although sometimes I don't remember, perhaps in this mandate and the past, saying that we're ratifying all of this, and that nobody ever shows up to explain anything to us, which we have to ask, etc. It did pass the procedure and the Council of Ministers, and the Presidency, and everything as planned and no one noticed or saw anything, etc. For example, these resolutions, ratification with the Federal Republic of Germany, on the performance of the paid activity of members of the family of members of the diplomatic or consular representation. So, here I am Mr. Ćeranić, who sends us this, uh, this one, says for consent – we ask you to invite this and who can invite you to the meetings, who can invite you as a promoter and a representative of the ministry, who can give all the necessary information to MPs, or delegates. For example, here in this Agreement with, behold, the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, has here at the perambula, says – wishing to improve the ability of a member of a family of members of a diplomatic or consular representativeship to carry out paid activity. What does it mean to improve, how do they have it now? So then he says in Article 4. – this immunity will not enjoy any action or failure in connection with the pursuit of paid activity. I thought this was all regulated by these agreements relating to the diplomatic crust. Well, then it says down in Article 5. - However, if the punishment has been committed, the nation's shale state will seriously consider it. What does it mean to seriously consider, meaning, some kind of move of this, and what does this really mean, this agreement for members of German... or ours if they go there, that's how I understood it? Now I don't know who the chairman would ask, so is there anyone who can explain it? Or, for example, what concerns IPA, these funds with the EU, so I believe that you've all read, I've tried really two, three times, it's hard to track where what money went, how, how, how many contracts, in which areas it is. So, is there anyone today that can interpret this or isn't, if I don't know what I'm going to do, who I'm going to ask. So we don't have that practice to call when it comes to these agreements, but we're just counting on it to be all right, maybe it is okay, I'm not saying it's not right, but here's some questions and now what, what about them. If you have any answer or no answer, if you don't, then I'll just take my stand on the vote, I don't know what else to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11505	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović. There are no more applications for discussion. Finalising debate at points 25 to 30. Points 31 to 88. Ad. 31. - Ad. 88. Second round of voting Points 31 to 88 are those for which no entity majority was required in the first round of voting, the points mentioned above have been discussed, and we remain to be heard about during 76 votes. That's why, and in the first part of reading the agenda, I haven't read these points specifically, but we have to when we vote on this. I suggest, since we've exhausted the agenda this way, a 45-minute break, I reckon that's enough time to get ready to vote, and so, if we start in five, I figure it takes us a little more than an hour to do the vote, because next to these 88 points there are other conclusions that have come in the course of the debate, so it won't go so fast and if we're disciplined. So, break till 5:00, but please make sure everyone's at 5:00 so we can vote effectively. Thank you. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11509	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11510	The opinion of the Constitutional Commission has not been adopted, I've read it all well, and I just haven't read it quite rightly, that's all. Coming back, the Commission needs to draw up a new opinion, yes, yes, well, that's clear. Point 8. – Conclusion from the 16th session of the Joint College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, issue: 01,02-06-453/22 of 22. Three. 2022, and a decision to refer the application for Bosnia and Herzegovina's candidate status to the accelerated procedure, Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-06-453-1/22 of 08.04.2022. We're voting on a motion for a decision. 29 for, 6 against, 4 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. We adopted a decision to make requests for candidate status. Point 9. – Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2021, issue: 05/7-39-1-269/22 of 18.02.2022. Of the 39 present – 25 for, 12 abstentions, 2 against. There's a general, no entity majority. 78 [[/consultations of the College.]] It's an ex post adjustment. Point 10. – Report on the work of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, foreign courts for crimes provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, issue: 05/6-50-15-364/22 of 08.03.2022. We vote on the adoption of the report with the recommendation, which reads: It is necessary to work continuously to improve the management treatment of prisoners and detainees in the office for the execution of criminal sanctions. 24 for 14 abstentions. There's a general, no entity majority. I suggest a second round, later. Point 11. – Report on the issues of applying the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, issue: 01,02-02-4-369/22 of 08.03.2022. We vote for adoption of the report. 25 for, 13 abstentions, one against. There's a general, no entity majority. No Report on questions of application of the Codex has been adopted. Let's go to the second round later. Point 12. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "The basic assumptions for effective tax management and fees of BiH institutions, applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-2201/21 of 17.12.2021. We're voting for adoption of the report. 27 for, 11 abstentions and one against. There's a general, no entity majority. No report was adopted, going later into the second round. Point 13. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Electronical document management in BiH institutions, applicant: Office for the Review of BiH Institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-2224/21 of 23.12.2021. We're voting for adoption of the report. 25 for, 13 abstentions and one against. There's a general, no entity majority. It was not adopted in the first round of the report on electronic document management. It's later in the second round of alignment. Point 14. – Work report and Financial Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2021, issue: 01,02-50-18-402/22 of 10.03.2022. 79 We vote for adoption of the report. Of the 39 present - 25 for, 3 against, 11 abstentions. There's a general, no entity majority. No postal traffic agency report was adopted. There's a later adjustment, a second round. Point 15. – Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2021, issue: 01,02-50-18-420/22 of 15.03.2022. We're voting on the report, the adoption of the report. 26 for, 10 abstentions, 3 against. There's no entity majority. No State Regulatory Commission Report on Electricity was adopted in the first round. Let's go later to the second round. Point 16. – Annual Report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2021, issue: 01-50-18-507/22 of 31.03.2022. 19 for, 2 against, 18 abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity majority. It is not in the first reading, i.e. the vote adopted by the Central Bank's report. He's going into round two later. Point 17. – Information from the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV Service on the consequences of BHRT's financial blockade, number: 01,02-50-18-476/22 of 24.03.2022. We vote on the proposals for conclusions as follows, therefore, have in, four sets of conclusions, I propose in order as proposed. The conclusions proposed by Mr jasmin Emrić, two conclusions, we vote on both at once, not individually. Is there any need for me to read the conclusions? If not, then we vote on Mr Emrić's conclusions, if there is a need it is not difficult to read again if you forget. You don't have to, okay. We vote. 22 for, 9 against, 8 abstentions. There's a general majority. Is anyone complaining? No, I thought someone said it again, no. So there's a general majority, no entity majority. The conclusions were not adopted in the first reading go to the second round. _________(?) 80 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11513	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11514	No, well, later, okay. Later round two. We are voting on a proposal for the conclusions of the Members of the SDA Club. There are five conclusions, do I need to read? No, Mr. Osmanović read it clearly, we all remembered them. We vote as a whole, so, for the whole set, five conclusions. If you think you should read, you from the U.S.A., you just let me know. You don't have to, okay. 19 for, 9 against, 11 abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity. No conclusions were adopted in the first round, we go to the second round later. Proposed conclusion by Mr Nermin Nikšić. One, there's no need to read. _________(?) There isn't. [[no microphone turned on]] We vote. 20 for, 16 abstentions, 3 against. There's a general majority, no entity. The proposal for a conclusion of Mr Niškšić was not accepted in the first reading. Let's go to the second round later. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Predrag Kojović, two conclusions. 81 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11520	... justwaitingtosee, [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11521	So the information is received to the knowledge, no, no, it is made known about it for and against, whether or not, but only the conclusions are made known. Now, we can, here, if that's the proposal, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11522	Was it a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11523	But the information is generally taken to the knowledge.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11524	That's good, but it was Almin's conclusion. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11525	Okay, so we're going back to point 17. We vote on Information from the BiH Public TV System Management Board on the consequences of the financial blockade. Is that it? We vote, go ahead, go ahead. Twenty-six for, nine against, four abstentions. There's a general, no entity majority. And now you have the conclusion, which is why I said, don't let us vote, now that we haven't received the information, right? What does that mean now? But here we go. [[Common discussion]] Let's do it again, Mr. Stevandić, second time, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11527	We're voting on Information now. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11528	Yeah, about the information. We're voting on the Information again. _________(?) Repeat the vote. All right, we'll do it again. Now there's a difference in one voice, brother, here we go again. 24 for, 10 against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, no entity majority. As far as I'm concerned, we can go round two. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11531	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11532	Wait, wait, Mr. Arnaut, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11533	... The Kožul going to the Glavaš. [[no microphone turned on]] So, we're voting for Kožul to get kicked out and Vlatko to get in. Let's see,
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11534	Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11535	Let's count it down, see who...
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11536	Mr. Arnaut, it looks ridiculous, we've already voted, what are we going to vote now?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11537	But look, look, I conjectured, I knew
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11538	Okay, here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11539	Chairman, I knew you'd put this first, so I purposely conjectured it this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11540	Well, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11541	Instead of Predrag Kožul is called Vlatko Glavaš. Read my proposal, so, very, I knew what you were going to do, and that's how I figured it out. Instead of Predrag Kožul, which, which you named, is called Vlatko Glavaš.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11542	But we named it, Mr. Arnaut. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11543	Well, I did, but I predicted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11544	Ah, you now, yeah good.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11545	I figured you would, so I figured it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11546	Wait a minute, let me get this straight. We didn't understand each other. It was logical to vote first for the College proposal and we have made a decision on who are members of the commission, but Mr Arnaut is now proposing that this one member be changed. So it makes sense to vote for it. Of course, I just don't know who's going to vote against these... well. So we're voting for Mr. Arnaut's conclusion. [[Common discussion]] Someone's yelling again, and, please, if anyone wants to say anything, please answer the word. We're voting on the conclusion, on the proposal for Mr. Arnaut's conclusion, please. Mr. Lovrinović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11548	Find me that foothold in the Rules of Procedure that you're talking about right now. So, at the same session per second that we're changing the decision we've already made, so at least to go, to leave it at the next session, so that that proposal is being tried, but now, that means, in, just having made a decision, so I don't, find that foothold in the Rules of Procedure. Find a foothold in the Rules of Procedure for something like that. I understand that an amendment to the decision is proposed, let's say, at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11549	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11550	Oh, no, I can't understand, so yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11551	No, please let us stop the debate, to continue now Damir, so again Nikola, there's no need. I suggest that the House plead, therefore, firstly declare whether we will vote on Mr Arnaut's conclusion when we have chosen the commission. 86 [[Common discussion]] You don't think he can, but I think now he can, Dom made a decision on the selection of the commission, which was the point of the agenda, and we're going to move to point 20. I wanted to be a Democrats, to satisfy everything, and here you obviously didn't want anyone to be that way. Point 20. – Consideration of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Damir Arnaut, which is required by the Council of Ministers of BiH to adopt within 30 days a decision on the quality of oil liquid fuels required for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the World Trade Organisation and to be referred to in parliamentary procedure, issue: 01-50-1-267/22 of 17.02.2022. We're voting on the adoption of the Initiative. 23 for, 6 against, 10 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We didn't adopt the initiative in the first round, then the second round. Point 21. – Considering the Parliament's initiative of Damir Arnaut, which is asked by the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH to prepare and to submit to the parliamentary procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Safety Act on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, which will significantly strengthen sanctions for certain acts prescribed by the law, issue: 01-50-1-352-22 of 07.03.2022. 21 for, 8 against, 10 abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity. We didn't adopt the first reading of the incijativa, we leave it for the second round. Point 22. – Considering the parliamentary initiative of Mirjana Marinković Lepić, which is required by the Council of Ministers of BiH to put on the agenda within 60 days and decide on the requirements of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to give consent to regulations or amendments and amendments to the rules on the systemisation of state institutions. The Council of Ministers also undertakes that institutions which have not yet submitted the requests for consent for those acts undertake to deliver the acts within a maximum of 180 days and to address potentially controversial issues with the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina within the same time limit, number: 01-50-1-521/22 of 04.04 and 11/04.2022. We're voting on the adoption of the Initiative. 22 for, 2 against, abstention 15. There's a general majority, no entity majority. It's not an initiative adopted in the first reading, we'll call again in the second round, second time. Point 23. – Review of Parliament's initiative Mirjana Marinković Lepić, which is ordered by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, to correct, within 90 days, the price of the fee paid when issuing the credentials on the basis of indirect taxes, other incomes and taxis, number: 01-50-1-543/22 of 06.04.2022. 87 We vote on the adoption of the modified initiative, remember how, I will read: It is proposed to the Directorate for indirect taxation and to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority to launch an initiative within 90 days according to the Council of Ministers to correct the price of the fee paid when issuing a conviction on compliant obligations on the basis of indirect taxes. So we're voting on this modification. No modified initiative, no entity majority – 25 votes for, therefore, general but 1 against, 13 abstentions. We'll get back to you on that, too. Point 24. – Proposal for a resolution, Proposer: Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović, issue: 01- 02-1-544/22 of 07.04.2022. It's like Nicola's Resolution says. We're voting on the motion for a resolution. 16 for, 16 against, 7 abstentions, no ___________(?) The vote, repeat the vote. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11556	Now it's the second round... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11557	And this is the second round, there is no, well, yes, yes, no, no, that's good, well, there is no second round, no amandman I.. amandman I was adopted because – 22 votes for, 16 against, of which 11 from Republika Srpska is therefore not the majority. 89 Point 34. – Second round of voting on Amendment II to Parliament Mirjana Marinković Lepić at the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1306/21 since 19.09.20121. If anyone thinks they should read the amendments right away, let them raise their hand and we'll do it. There isn't. We vote. 22 for, 17 against, no abstentions. There's no majority in the second round. amandman II. has not passed. Point 35. – Second round of voting on Amendment III to Parliament Mirjana Marinković Lepić at the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1306/21 since 19.09.20121. We vote only in the second round on Amendment No III. 22 for, 16 against, 1 abstention. There's no entity majority. It has not passed, Amendment III has not been voted on. Point 36. – Second round of voting on Amendment IV to Parliament Mirjana Marinković Lepić at the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1306/21 since 19.09.20121. We vote in the second round on Amendment IV. 22 for, 17 against. There's no entity majority. No amandman iv.e was adopted either. And finally point 37. – Second round of voting on Amendment Proposal V MEP Mirjana Marinković Lepić at the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01-02-1-1306/21 since 19.09.20121. We vote for amandman v. 21 for, 16 against, 2 abstentions. Amendment V was not adopted because there is no entity majority, 11 against Republika Srpska. Point 38. – The second round of voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency (Law in Second Reading), issue: 01,02-02-1-1306/21 of 24.06.2021. We are voting in the second round on the draft law in the second reading with five amendments, which we have already seen. Budget Law adopted for 2021. - 21 for, 11, versus, 7 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Point 39. – The second round of voting on the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Emergency Procedure Act), issue: 01,02-02-1-1223/21 of 1606.2021. 90 We vote in the second round on the draft law by emergency procedure. 33 for, 2 against, 4 abstentions. The draft law on customs violations of BiH adopted by emergency procedure. Point 40. – Second round of voting on the Report – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations on the subject: "Government management in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01,01/4-16-10-1224/21 of 1606.2021. We're voting in the second round of the report. There's a general, there's an entity majority -- for 23, abstentions 15, versus 1. So, we adopted a report on the follow-up of the revision recommendations. Point 41. – The second round of voting on the Report – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations on the subject: "Activities of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement protection and rescue in a natural or other accident", applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01,01/4-16-10-1225/21 of 16.06.2021. We're voting in the second round of the report. 26 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's a general, there's an entity majority. It's an adopted report. Point 42. The second round of voting on granting consent to ratify the Agreement by exchanging notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan on Japanese grant aid of five hundred million Japanese yen, issue: 01,02-21-1-1640/21 of 18.08.2021. We're voting in the second round of consent. [[Common discussion]] We should make a statement. I suggest we make it clear that we are voting together in the second round of voting for points 42, at the conclusion of point 47, it's all about agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11559	And it's all round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11560	Yeah, and it's all round two. We vote for unification first. 37 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. We have made a decision to vote unanimously on points 42 with a conclusion of 47th, and everything refers to a second round of voting on consent for ratification of the agreement. 91 So now we're voting for agreements. 35 for four abstentions, no problem. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that Parliament has adopted or agreed to ratify the agreement under points 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47. Point 48. – The second round of voting on the minutes of the 23rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We're voting in the second round on the adoption of the 23rd session. There's a general, there's an entity majority -- 26 for, 13 abstentions. We've adopted a record from the 23rd session. Point 49. – The second round of voting on the Amendment of the Law on Amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, Law No: 01-02-1-863/21 of 21.04.2021, shortened procedure (law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 21 for, 13 against, 5 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Proposal for a Law amending the Election Act as proposed by the MPs. Point 50. – The second round of voting on the BiH Defence Report for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1436/21 of 16.07.2012. Report was adopted – 27 for, 2 against, 10 abstentions. There's one and the other. Point 51. – The second round of voting on the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2020, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02- 16-1456/21 of 21.07.20121. Report on the execution of the Budget – 17 for, 16 abstentions, 6 against. There's one and the other. Point 52. – The second round of voting on the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget on the Report on the financial audit of the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2020, submitr: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-9-1224/21 of 10.09.20121. And here we have two conclusions, is there any need to read them, that, that we've all been through? There isn't. We vote. Proposed Conclusions - 26, abstentions 12, v 1. Point 53. – The second round of voting on the report on the financial audit of the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2020 budget, applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-9-1724/21 of 10/09/2021. 92 We vote in the second round on the report. Report is adopted – 26 for, 13 reserved. There's one and the other. Point 54. – The second round of voting on the draft conclusion from the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1684/21 of 31.08.2021, which reads: "The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs proposes to the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to return to the Governing Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for the completion of the report on the work of the Management Committee for 2020, which the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH will re-deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH". We're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. The adoption of the Opinion of the Foreign Trade Commission on the report on the work of the Management Board of the Original Credit Agency with – 25 for, 11 abstentions, 3 against. There's a lot of both general and entity. Point 55. – The second round of voting on the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2020, applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1705/21 of 08/09/2021. We're voting in the second round of the report. Report – 21 for, 16 against and 2 abstentions. There's both a general and an entity majority. Point 56. – Second round of voting on the Local Elections Report 2020, applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1706/21 of 08/09/2021. We're voting in the second round of the report. Report was adopted – 19 for, 16 against, 4 abstained. There's a lot of each other. Point 57. – The second round of voting on the initiative of MP Saša Magazinović, who is in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit the proposal for a framework law on climate change within six months, No. 01-50-1-1828/21 of 01.10.2021. No adoption, no Saša Magazinović initiative was adopted – 22 for, 12 against, 5 abstentions. There's no entity majority. Point 58. – Second round of voting on the proposal for a declaration of candidate status for membership in the European Union, Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, issue: 01-50-1-15-22/21, link: 01-02-1-1390/21 since 07.07.20121. We vote in the second round on the proposal for a declaration. Declaration adopted – 21 for, 8 against, 10 abstentions. There's a lot of each other. 93 Point 59. – The second round of voting on granting consent to the ratification of Annex I of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at the common border crossing point of the Delusa border crossing point; Aneksa II Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points at the border crossing point at the border crossing point of Hum – Šcepan Polje; Annex III of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points for the common location at the border crossing point of Sitnica – Zupci and Annex IV of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at the border border crossing point of 23.01. We vote only in the second round on granting consent to the ratification of annexes. Agreeing with giving, or giving consent to ratification of the Anex I Agreement between BiH and Montenegro, because – 37 for, 2 abstentions. So they have all the majority. Point 60. – The second round of voting on Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 25th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Proposal for a resolution on the protection of the constitutional order of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposals: MPs Denis Zvizdić, Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Zukan Helez, Nada Mladina, Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Aida Baručija, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, number: 01-02-2179/21 of 14.12.2021. We vote only in the second round on Parliamentarian Arnaut's proposal. No MP proposal was adopted, Mr Arnaut – 22 for, 16 against, 1 abstention. There's no entity majority. Point 61. – The second round of voting on Parliamentarian Adil Osmanović's proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the 25th session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: The current political and security situation in BiH following a unilateral attempt by the NSRS to transfer (absorbing) the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the RS entity, issue: 01-50-1 2183/21 of 14.12.2021. Only in the second round on Osmanović's proposal. Mr Osmanović's proposal – 22 for, 15 against, abstention 2. There's no entity majority. Point 62. – The second round of voting on the minutes of the 24th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives with the opposition of MP Nikola Lovrinović. Only in the second round on the adoption of the minutes from the 24th session, with Mr. Nikol Lovrinović's remarks. The minutes were adopted by Mr. Lovrinović – 24 for, 15 abstentions. There's one and the other. 94 Point 63. – The second round of voting on the minutes of the 25th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The minutes from the 25th session of the House of Representatives with – 27 votes for, 11 abstentions and 1 against. Point 64. – The second round of voting on the request of MP Damir Arnaut to consider the draft law amending the Law on Salary and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01- 02-1-2236-1/21 of 29.12.2021. We're voting in the second round on an emergency request. A request for an emergency procedure has been adopted. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Somebody raise your hand if you don't mind. Okay, we're voting again. Mr Arnaut's request for an emergency procedure - 22 against 13, abstention 4. There's a lot of each other. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Mr. Arnaut, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11562	Thank you, Chairman. So, in the last session, I explained the emergency procedure, I'm going to explain the bill here very briefly, I'm going to remind you that this is the fourth time I've tried, and I promised not to give up. The bill is very simple to predict that the severances now provided for by the six average salaries of BiH institutions are limited to a maximum of 10,000 marks. So, soldiers, police officers, most civil servants will not see any reductions in severance, but in the case of elected and appointed persons in BiH institutions, directors and the like, senior state officials we will see a reduction in these severances to a reasonable extent. I have explained in the bill one of the reasons why it is necessary to introduce this, namely to adopt this Law is also the fact that the objective of severance, the purpose of the severance is to facilitate a person's transition from salary to pension. In the case of elected deputies and delegates also delegated to the House of Peoples, we have situations where people already receive high salaries, retire on one day, take 30, 35,000 marks of severance, and the next day they continue to receive those high salaries, and also start from that day primates and quite high pensions, taking into account the revenues they had during their political service. So the purpose of the severance is that when someone has a minimum wage, then they go on an even smaller pension to give him those several thousand marks to ease that transition. The purpose of the severance is not when someone has a base salary, as of the next day, to continue to receive a base salary and a large pension, to give him 33, 35,000 marks. It justifies the public's revolt over this phenomenon, it really exceeds all the party flows. 95 We had an example very picturesque in the House of Nations a few months ago when the group of leadership, the College of the House of Peoples, therefore, Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Špirić and Mr. Čović filled 65 years of their lives and took that severance. I've been very often, uh, pointing out the fact that the law doesn't even allow for anyone to give up that severance, it's not a jubilee award, which I, for example, I think Mr. Magazinović and a few more of us, we had the right to give up and give up, it's not a compensation for the death of the family, which I specifically gave up, it's a fee that doesn't allow you to give up these fees and that's why we had an example in the past meeting of Mirsad Mešić, our colleague from Zenica in the past, he couldn't give up, there was a terrible shame to take it into his own account, and he immediately passed it, I mean for humanitarian purposes, education like this... But people shouldn't even be brought into these situations. Therefore, this is one proposal that does not abolish any severance, most importantly, the least-paid officials, and especially the police and soldiers in BiH, does not reduce the fencing of the severance, but exclusively the severance of highly-ranked officials brings to one, which can be said, a reasonable measure. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues, we're going to vote on the draft law by emergency procedure, we can adopt this bill now, I'm really asking you all to give your vote if we have a general and entity majority, enough votes "for" this law will pass today and we'll send it to the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11563	Thank you. There's no record of a hearing. We're pleading on the bill. Law adopted with – 25 votes for, 9 against, 5 abstentions. There's both a general and an entity majority. Point 65. – The second round of voting on the request of MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure: 01- 02-1-107/22 of 17.01.2022. We're voting in the second round on an emergency request. Law adopted, emergency procedure adopted – 21 against 13, abstentions 5. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I'm opening a debate on the bill. No Niko's answering.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11564	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11565	Oh, yes, Mrs Mirjama Mirjama-Marinković-Lepić, please. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11566	Here, I would just like to remind my colleagues and colleagues that this is about the fact that according to this member of the Law on Labour in BiH Institutions, which is changing, only single parents had the right to work part-time if they had, as stated in the Law, a disabled child. In this change, this possibility is given to one of the parents if both parents are employed. So entity laws already have these adopted solutions and therefore have better solutions than state-owned ones, and here's the proposal, so if both parents are employed and have a more disabled child, one of the parents can work half the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11567	Thank you. There's no record of a hearing. We're pleading on the bill. Proposed law with – 26 votes for, 3 against, 9 abstentions. Point 66. – The second round of voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, issue: 01-02-1-1904/21 since 14.10.2021. (first reading) We declare ourselves in the second round of voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. The bill adopted – 22 for, 12 against, 4 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Point 67. – The second round of voting on MPs' initiative, Saša Magazinović, who is in charge of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council to submit a legislative solution within three months of the parliamentary procedure, which introduces a mandatory medical examination for elected and appointed officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which includes special testing of mental-psychological capacity to perform public functions, as well as testing of psychoactive substances, number: 01-50-1925/21 since 19.10.1921. We're voting in the second round on the parliamentary initiative. Mr Arnaut's parliamentary initiative – adopted for 22, against 11, abstentions 6. There's one and the other. Point 68. – The second round of voting on Parliament Initiative Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which is ordered by the Council of Ministers of BiH to adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2020-2024 and the Action Plan for the Implementation of Strategy 2020-2024, issue: 01-50-1-1971/21 of 27.10.1921. We're voting in the second round on the parliamentary initiative. Initiative adopted – 22 against 2 abstentions 15. There's one and the other. 97 Point 69. – The second round of voting on the initiative of MPs Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which is ordered by the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit the Law on State Property within 30 days of the legislative procedure, No. 01-50-1-197221 of 27.10.1921. We're voting in the second round of the Initiative. The initiative was not adopted – 21 for, against 12, abstentions 6. No entity majority from Republika Srpska. Point 70. – The second round of voting on the Opinion's Opinion's proposal, Edita Đapo, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requests all countries and organisations, members of the Peace Implementation Council to suspend the Russian Federation from this body urgently. Russia has committed aggression on Ukraine and as such cannot promote and implement peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina," number: 01-50-1-319-12/22 since 04.03.2022. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of the Parliament of Edita Đapo. No proposal was adopted by Ms. Đapo - 22 for, against 12, abstentions 5. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. Point 71. – The second round of voting on Parliamentarian Denis Zvizdić's proposal, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers to allocate an amount of 250,000.00 euros to assist the citizens of Ukraine without delay from the current budget reserve of BiH institutions' institutions and international commitments", issue: 01-50-1-319-12/22 of 04.03.2022. We vote only in the second round on Parliament's proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Denis Zvizdić. The proposal for a conclusion adopted – for 17 abstentions 15, against 7. It's a adopted conclusion. Point 72. – The second round of voting on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Jasmin Emrić, which reads: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on the BiH Presidency to urgently make the necessary decisions to provide humanitarian assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine; 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently provide financial resources, organise and deliver the necessary humanitarian, health or other necessary assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine; 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on both entities, cantonal governments, municipalities and cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to organise and provide humanitarian assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine, in accordance with their capabilities," number: 01-50-1-319-12/22 of 04.03.2022. Only in the second round on Jasmin Emrić's proposal for a conclusion. Proposed Opinion of Mr Emrić – 20 for, abstention 11, v 8. Point 73. – The second round of voting on the motion for a resolution on the condemnation of aggression in Ukraine, proposing: MPs from the SDA Club, issue: 01-02-2-346/22 of 04.03.2022. 98 We vote in the second round on the motion for a resolution. Resolution not adopted – 22 for, against 12, abstentions 5. He's got a general, but he doesn't have an entity majority. Point 74. – The second round of voting on Parliament's proposal: Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut, which reads: - It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to extend the period of visa-free stay of the citizens of Ukraine on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina from 30 days to 90 days without delay. - It requires the BiH Council of Ministers to introduce without delay the possibility of the entry of citizens of Ukraine into Bosnia and Herzegovina with ID cards. - The BiH Council of Ministers requires that without delay introduce a visa regime for citizens of the Russian Federation, namely to break up an agreement on a visa-free regime concluded between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation. In particular, it is necessary to immediately introduce a visa regime for the holders of the Russian Federation's diplomatic passports, which can remain without a visa for up to 90 days under the agreement, taking into account the possibility of agents of Putin's regime to use this privilege with the aim of taking moves against Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests. - It requires the BiH Council of Ministers to send urgent humanitarian and medical assistance to Ukraine. - The Council of Ministers of BiH is required to inform this House within seven days of all the details of the implementation of these conclusions," number: 01-50-1-319-12/22 of 04.03.2022. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for the conclusions of the MPs. These conclusions were not adopted – 22 against 12, abstentions 5. There's no entity majority. Point 75. – The second round of voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Borjana Krišto, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH supports the European Parliament resolution of 1 March 2022 on Russian aggression in Ukraine (2022/2564(RSP)) and the Resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations on Ukraine, and gives full support to the institutions of the European Union in their response activities to the invasion of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine", number: 01-50-1-319/1222 of 04.03.2022. We're voting in the second round on Mrs. Borjana Krišto proposal for a conclusion. No proposal for a conclusion was adopted by Mrs Krišto – 26 for, against 12, abstention 1. He's got a general, but he doesn't have an entity majority. Point 76. – The second round of voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Mirjana Marinković Lepić on the debate on the request of MPs: Saša Magazinović, Nermin Nikšić, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to discuss the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina according to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure, which reads: "I demand that the Council of Ministers of BiH send a set of measures to overcome the current economic situation of the Russian Federation's aggression in Ukraine within 15 days of the adoption of this conclusion," number: 01-02-1-298/22 of 09.03.2022. 99 We vote on Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's proposal for a conclusion. The conclusion of Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic – 22 for, against 12, abstentions 5. There's no entity majority. Point 77. – The second round of voting on Parliamentarian Adil Osmanović's proposal for a debate on the request of MPs: Saša Magazinović, Nermin Nikšić, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to discuss the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina according to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The Governing Board of BiH's Direct Taxation Authority is in charge of giving from 30.11.2022 and no later than 10.12.2022. To the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, provide a detailed analysis of the effects of the Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina," issue: 01-02-1-298/22 of 09.03.2022. We vote only in the second round on Mr Adil Osmanović's proposal for a conclusion. Again at my request, repeat the vote. Mr Osmanović's proposal adopted – 28 against 4 abstentions 7. Point 78. – Second round of voting on the report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2020, applicant: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-04-1-1412/21 of 08.07.20121. We're voting in the second round of the report. Report – 35 for, versus 1, abstention 3. Point 79. – The second round of voting on the Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights on the Special Report on the Efficiency of Legal Solutions in the area of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads: "It is necessary for the Council of Ministers of BiH to initiate the procedure for the election of a new meeting of the Council for Persons with Disabilities", issue: 03/6-50-14-12-17/22, link number: 01,02-37-1-1808/21 of 30.09.2022. We're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion adopted – 27 for, against 1, abstentioned 11. Point 80. – The second round of voting on the Special Report on the Efficiency of Legal Solutions in the area of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with recommendations contained in it, submitted by: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01.02-37-1188/21 of 30.09.2022. We're voting in the second round of the report. Report adopted – 26 for, no objection, abstention 13. It has an entity and general majority. 100 Point 81. – The second round of voting on Parliamentarian Jasmin Emrić's Opinion's proposal for a debate on the Special Report on hate speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within 60 days a plan for the implementation of the recommendations of the Ombudsman from the Special Report on hate speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to submit for consideration to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives", issue: 01.02-37-1-2230/21 of 09.03.2022. We're voting on Mr. Emrić's proposal for a conclusion. The adoption of Mr Emrić's conclusion – 27 votes, abstentions 12. Point 82. – The second round of voting on changes to the content of recommendations from the Special Report on hate speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by MP Nikola Lovrinović, which reads. I'm reading if you've forgotten, is Mr. Lovrinović supposed to read?
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11568	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-04-27-1.u11569	They all remember these seven indents and dots. Okay, we are voting in the second round on changes to the content of the recommendations proposed by Mr. Lovrinović. The amendments to the recommendations on Mr Lovrinović's proposal – 17 votes for, 14 abstentions and 8 against. There's one and the other. Point 83. – The second round of voting on the Special Report on hate speech in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with recommendations contained in it, submitted by: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01.02-37-1-2230/21 of 27.12.2021. Only in the second round of the Ombudsman's report. Report adopted – 26 for, 1 against, 12 abstentions. There's one and the other. Point 84. – Second round of voting on the report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner for 2021, issue: 05/3-37-4-146/22 of 28.01.2022. A report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner – 34 votes for and 5 abstentions. Point 85. – Second round of voting on the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2021, issue: 01,02-50-15-163/22 of 31.01.2022. Report adopted – 32 for, no objection, 7 abstentions. They've got most of them. Point 86. – The second round of voting on the modified initiative of MP Damir Arnaut, which reads: "It requires the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to reach an agreement with entities, the Brcko District of BiH and all cantons of a single QR 101 code certificate, in a way that certifications are issued at lower levels of government", number: 01-50-1797/21 of 09.03.2022. We are voting on a modified parliamentary initiative. Mr Arnaut's modified initiative – 20 votes for, 15 abstentions, 4 against. There's a lot of each other. Point 87. – The second round of voting on the initiative of Parliament Mirjana Marinković Lepić and Aida Baručija, which requires the Council of Ministers of BiH to conclude within 90 days the process of harmonising the legislation in the area of protection of personal data with the newly adopted regulations of the European Union, No. 01-50-1973/21 of 27.10.1921. We're voting in the second round on the parliamentary initiative. No parliamentary initiative has been adopted – 21 for, 10 against, 8 abstentions. There's no entity majority. Point 88. – The second round of voting on Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut's initiative, which is asked by the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to initiate the procedure for amending the driver's license Regulation (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, number 9/19), with the aim of abolishing Article 24 which regulates the obligation to replace the driver's license for persons changing residence, No 01-50-1-224/22 of 09.02.2022. Mr Arnaut's parliamentary initiative – adopted for 20, against 8, with 11 abstentions. There's a lot of each other. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your persistent and patient work, regardless of any problems, I know you're tired, pleasant. We'll discuss the session later. Session completed at 6:32 p.m.
