ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11231	I ask the representatives who are in the room to sign up, to register. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 12th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I warmly welcome all present representatives and distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] At this point, 29 MPs attend the session, so the session has a quorum for full work and decision-making. The emergency session was called at the request of a representative: Predrag Kojović, Nermin Nikšić, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Nada Mladina, Damir Arnaut, Zukan Helez and Denis Zvizdić. I find that the 12th emergency session of the House has the next agenda, i.e. only one item of the agenda, which is the Agenda 1. The travel of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, including the taking of concrete measures with the aim of helping Ukraine and its citizens, promoters: representatives Predrag Kojović, Nermin Nikšić, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Nada Mladina, Damir Arnaut, Zukan Helez and Denis Zvizdić, issue: 01-50-1-15-318/22 since 02.03.2022. In addition to the call for the session, you also received a request for an emergency session with a proposal for a agenda item. Point one, Ad. 1. The travel of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, including the taking of concrete measures with the aim of helping Ukraine and its citizens, promoters: representatives Predrag Kojović, Nermin Nikšić, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Nada Mladina, Damir Arnaut, Zukan Helez and Denis Zvizdić, issue: 01-50-1-15-318/22 since 02.03.2022. I am now opening a debate on this point, which represents the agenda of today's session. Here you go. Dear Representative Edita Đapo, come in. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11233	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to you, the chairman, MPs and MPs of this House, members of the Council of Ministers, who attend, and of course to the citizens of BiH, who look at us through small screens. I welcome you all above all, and I sincerely thank you for organising this emergency session, because I think that this way we have sent a very important message from BiH, I believe that today's emergency session and debate, which we will have, will result in concrete and useful proposals and conclusions for both the people of Ukraine and the people of BiH. Whether the people of Ukraine are at war today or somewhere in the movement and refugee world, these must be the hardest days of their lives. I'm sure they're expecting help, just as we expected and received from all the civilized and responsible inhabitants of the planet Earth. I must point out that to me as a woman, and a mother, and MPs of this largest home in our country, it's hard to actually look at those terrible scenes of war and war destruction in Ukraine, it's just as hard to watch the columns of Ukraine with the children in their arms leaving their loved ones, their country on their way to somewhere, and as we see a large number of them not knowing where they're headed, neither where their destination is, nor whether or when they'll return to their already destroyed homes in Ukraine. This reminds us of what we have survived and cannot without thanking the Republic of Croatia which has received, fed and adopted thousands of our refugees at this time. Croatia was then our biggest friend and we must never forget it. I think BiH as a member of the United Nations today is on a serious trial and therefore we must clearly and loudly condemn the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Russia has stumbled against the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, but Russia has been facing BiH for years, systematically jeopardising BiH's path to the European Union and NATO through its action in the PIC. I remind you that the Dayton Peace Agreement ended aggression and brought peace and that is the greatest achievement. After the conclusion of the Dayton Peace Agreement, in November '95. A month later, a peace implementation conference was held in London, aimed at mobilising international support for the implementation of the Peace Agreement. The Peace Implementation Council or the PIC, consisting of 55 countries and organisations, which support the BiH peace process in different ways, was then established. The London Conference on Peace Implementation also led to the establishment of a Peace Implementation Council Management Board, chaired by the High Representative, as the PIC Executive Board. It is this Governing Board that gives the High Representative political guidance, and members of the Management Board are France, Italy, Japan, Canada, Germany, Russia, the United States, Great Britain, the EU Presidency, the European Commission and the Organisation of an Islamic Conference represented by Russia, representing Turkey, forgive me. And now I ask us all a question – How can Russia, a country that is an aggressor, work on the implementation of peace, how can Russia, which attacked Ukraine, implement the Dayton Peace Agreement here in BiH? Well, that's just impossible. I therefore propose that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly make a request to all countries and organisations, members of the Peace Implementation Council, to suspend the Russian Federation from this body urgently, I call on the countries and members of the PIC to open their eyes, to free us from the shackles of Russia and thus stop the systemic obstructions of implementation of the Dayton Agreement, to enable the normal functioning of the High Representative and to allow BiH to make progress as Euro-Atlantic integrations. 3 We know where we belong, our place is in the EU and NATO, as someone who was killed every day during the siege of Sarajevo, just because I am a resident of Sarajevo, I appeal to all members of the PIC to shut down, suspend, throw out the Russian Federation from the Peace Implementation Council, because the Russian Federation is an aggressor at this time. The aggressor must isolate itself, exclude itself from all world organisations and all decision-making bodies, because Russia cannot decide the future of our children. Russia's PIC suspension is something you owe not only to the victims of aggression on BiH, you owe it to us to the survivors and our children, but you owe it to all of humanity. This will stop those who dream of disintegration of BiH and destabilising the region. Only in this way will you stop those who draw strength and slow and sometimes inadequate answers from the international community. Passiveness and patience today have no place, the international community is expected to act quickly and concretely, to give hope to our people, to make BiH progress, but at the same time to give hope to the Ukrainian people. Slava to Ukraine and lived BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11234	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Predrag Kojović, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11235	I thank the chairman. Before I say what I am about to say, I want to fully support the presentation of my colleague, Đapo, and her request that the 55-nation conference, the founders of the PIC, consider Russia's participation in the Peace Implementation Council, consider the involvement of the aggressor on the recognised UN state here to implement the Dayton Peace. Last week, on February 24th, Russia committed a brutal aggression against Ukraine, a full-fledged UN member with the publicly declared goals of Putin's regime to erase it from the map of the world. To date, this plan has not only been achieved thanks to the incredible courage of Ukrainian citizens and the determination of their President zelinski, whose leadership is and must be an inspiration to all of us. I call upon you and appeal to your conscience to be aware of our responsibilities at this historic moment and for the world, and for Europe, but especially the historic moment for our country of BiH. The geopolitical world in which we held the last session of this House no longer exists. Foreign policy postulates, which were valid until a few weeks ago, no longer apply. The high-force nuclear systems are on alert. After a long time, perhaps for the first time since World War II, the whole democratic world has been united and determined to defend the achieved civilization values with weapons. Please, please don't run away from these truths. There is and cannot be neutral in this global conflict, I refuse any possibility that shelling cities, killing civilians, despite the propaganda of Putin's regime, have any, for normal people, meaningful justification. They don't, they won't, and I can't have it. What we call, what we look at in Ukraine, is called aggression, and the method of doing it is crimes against humanity. The world we are in is exclusively... or you are on the side of the people of Ukraine together with America, the European Union and 141 countries of the world or you are on the side of Putin with Syria, North Korea, Belarus and Eritrea. In what direction is this the most legislative body, which is directly elected by citizens, to lead our BiH, to peace, to security, to the economic and political progress offered by America and the EU or to political and military barbarism of Putin? BiH and all our citizens, and Bošnjak, and Srbin, and Hrvat, and all others are Europeans, we belong to Europe geographically, but more importantly we belong to it in our history, culture and humanistic values that we share. If we don't want new wars, casualties and life in the deepest poverty, if we want future generations of four Bosanac and Hercegovac to live as an equal partner in a family of civilized countries, I suggest we take a step that we only need common sense. I propose that we form, right now, at this session, a working body presented by representatives of all clubs, to agree on three laws – the Law on conflict of interest, the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. We all know that there are 14 priorities, we all know that we are told that candidate status can be obtained if we show a credible effort to meet these priorities and we all know what three laws are – the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Conflict of Interest and the Law on VSTV. One of these laws has already been passed, and it has been in the House of Peoples for months. I suggest, Chairman, that we form this working body, that the working body immediately as it begins working this afternoon, the versions of these laws that are acceptable to most of them exist. I'll just say, we're willing to vote for a version of the law that may not be exactly our taste, but if it meets European standards and if the EU will accept it as a fulfillment, we will also support such an imperfect law. I really appeal to you to understand the seriousness and importance of this moment and this step, the world in which we lived, the geopolitical world is history, our historic chance is to make the ruins of that old geopolitical world one better and what I suggested is the first step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11236	Thank you. Dear Representative Magazinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11237	Dear Chairman, Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. At the very beginning, I would like to welcome the two previous discussions and the proposed conclusions, that this colleague Đapo is related to the participation of the Russian Federation in the Peace Implementation Council, with all the arguments she has made, which are no longer a place, and what this is, which he spoke of by a respected colleague, Kojović, when it comes to the new division of cards in which BiH's EU candidate status is more certain than it was before. So today we do not take a stand against Russian aggression in Ukraine, he is long busy and members of the diplomatic and consular networks have participated in the work of certain international bodies and BiH already on the right side of history, and I congratulate them and thank them for that, even though they were just doing their job for which they were paid. What we're talking about today is how to help the state of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, so we're small, we're not strong enough, but even the slightest help and the slightest gesture of goodwill will remain recorded. After all, we also have a moral obligation in these situations to be handy to those who need help, at the very least we have no right to remain silent, watch and comment. Here I have a list of needs which is an official document of the state of Ukraine, which has been sent around the world, and I have a translation here, although our languages are not so different that we don't understand, the needs of Ukraine which is a huge state are large, in tonnes are shown the needs of clothes, shoes, uniforms, underwear, blankets, bed linen, dishes, furniture, construction material, first-aid supplies, disposable dishes, hygienics, lanterns, batteries, generators, hospital beds, 5 first-aid packages, transport vehicles, means of communication, candles, loose beds, etc. etc. I know that our capacity is not such that we can greatly meet these demands, therefore, the requirements, but I think we must, so we must, in a symbolic way, even in the context of our ability to engage and send assistance to Ukraine. Secondly, there are rules for the stay of Ukrainian citizens in BiH, they are such that the visa-free regime is limited, if I understand correctly, for 30 days in these circumstances it is not enough – is there an interest of citizens from different parts of Ukraine to come to BiH? There are, therefore, already registered cases like this, we need to make it easier. There is one example that may shed light on this whole situation, which says that the French multinational company Lactalis, which also works in BiH, has been communicating with BiH institutions these days on how to, if there is, and there is an interest in the employees of this firm in Ukraine, how to receive them in BiH, facilitate their stay and even employ them in their company and finance their stay in BiH. But you need the help of institutions, you don't need these people to send dozens of e-mails and be sent from one ministry to another, with the exception of the foreign ministry that has responded in a certain way. So there are many ways for BiH institutions to help the state and the citizens of Ukraine, and I think it is a positive result of this session if we speed up these processes. And finally a few words about those who aren't here in the O.R. today. So one of the reasons they're not in the O.R. today is that they don't know what they're thinking today. So these are people who don't know what their position is, these are people who are confused by Serbia's vote in the UN, who condemned Russia's aggression against Ukraine. These are people who are afraid to say what they think and then realize that it is best for them not to come at all, because it is possible for their attitude to change in the course of the session itself. It is sad that there are people and political projects in BiH that place themselves in a huge world minority who hesitate to say that Russia has committed aggression on Ukraine or even supports such a terrible thing. Fear governs those who are not present today, among them are people I guarantee that they are good people, that they think no one bad, but unfortunately their fear is greater than their goodness. I call on them to defeat their fear, to break away and defeat the evil that scares them so much, and I call on us all together to compete in kindness towards the people of Ukraine, but also towards all those who live in BiH, towards the Bosnian Herzegovic people, because it is not necessary to close our eyes before the already visible reflection of the events in Ukraine on the people of BiH, who have survived this and who live in fear and trauma whether this will happen again here. We need to be with these people, understand them, understand their fears, their existential problems, which we're going to talk about at the next session, on March 09, when we talk about abolishing excise duties. So did you see what one news produced last night, rows that size on the pumps, so do you think it wasn't an association to people in '92? A year when also the ranks at the pumps were just before the beginning of the war, and we can help the people of Ukraine, and the people of BiH much more, and I invite us all to do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11238	Thank you. Honorable representative Helez, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11239	Thank you. I do not see that there are... and there are representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of MPs. 6 I am one of the cosignors of the motion to hold this emergency session and I do not need to tell you what the reasons are. The citizens and peoples of BiH know best what it means when someone commits aggression on your country. It is very important that we here today in this high home give support to Ukraine, is that we are a small country, with a small number of inhabitants, in some world norms of little importance, but symbolically perhaps the most significant state that gives support to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. For what reason? Well, for reasons because we are the only country in Europe that has had an aggression since World War II, it is now similar or similar to that of the state of Ukraine. Like Ukraine, people from other BiH countries have attacked and today the world is only being ranked on two sides and I will be free here to say that a broad anti-fascist alliance is being formed, while fascist regimes remain on the other side. What's fascism, what's fascism if it's not, if someone doesn't go to your country at the border crossing, but goes thin and knocks it all down in front of him? What's fascism if it's not when you drop tape bombs, what's fascism if it's not about threatening nuclear weapons, what's fascism if someone in your house comes to your house and rapes your mother, your sister, kills your father? I'm looking at the same scenes I watched in '92, '93, '94, '95. It is therefore very important that BiH be placed on the side of the anti-fascist alliance. Today I can't just, what our people would say, come to me, to my colleagues from the smaller bh. The entity does not attend today's session. Is that a sign that they support the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine? But then when you think about it, when you analyze it, I don't want to put all these people in the same basket, it's up to us to have people sitting here in Parliament, which is '92, '93. Years with a famous van bought by the powerless Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin who didn't think the same thing, raped, killed, beaten and persecuted from their homes. And we kind of put it under the carpet, keep it quiet, and eventually you see that the hair is missing that it's coming back on our heads. In addition to helping the entire world, Ukraine needs to learn a lesson, a very important lesson, when it was meant to defend Ukraine only the boys, the residents, and the women, and the ladies stood in defense of their country, means only the citizens of Ukraine, the truth of some volunteers, but there is no state that officially sent its troops to help the Ukrajinac. That's why I want to open my eyes to the whole Bosnian-Herzegovina public, that we should prepare ourselves and that it went as planned by the Russian Federation and Putin would probably have similar things in BiH. However, the brave people of Ukraine have crushed the accounts of the villain Putin, stood in his way, defended themselves, and already the latest news suggests that they are going in a counter offensive to liberating certain parts of the Russian troops. So I think that a single thread, at least for a moment, that I have warned here several times in my discussions here in our House, has been handled directly from the Russian Federation, all of these obstructions that continue to come from the Russian Federation through official Serbia, the Aleksandar Vučić regime, to Milorad Dodik, which has been causing problems for us all this time. What colleagues have proposed to propose to the world's powers to eliminate the Russian Federation from the Peace Implementation Council would no longer be blocked, Milorad Dodik could no longer block the work of these institutions, because then a high representative and all the international contracts would be expressed, all those who block it from the process and our country would move towards the EU and NATO alliance. If you look at who today or who only supports Russia's aggression against Ukraine, these are non-democratic regimes, regimes where there is no choice for years, regimes that have coincided with the entire society in those countries of Venezuela, North Korea, Syria, Eritrea and unfortunately part of BiH, and unfortunately part of BiH officials, it makes me very, particularly sad. However, I think the Russian Federation will be defeated and it will be a message to these other regimes that support Russia, the Russian Federation and Putin, and that this is the beginning of the end of these totalitarian regimes and that a new world democratic order is being formed. 7 Finally I want to give support, here is symbolic, to the citizens of Ukraine, to the fighters of Ukraine, to all volunteers, and this is me personal to the Spanish war, to all volunteers of the world who went to help defend Ukraine an independent sovereign state. And as for BiH's assistance, I am prepared to help myself, in accordance with my capabilities, to help through the institutions of the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11240	Thank you, Agent Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11241	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11242	Thank you very much. Once again, I welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs and I am taking this opportunity to address, not as, just as a representative or chairman of the House of Representatives, but, above all, as a man. I think it is very clear that what the Russian Federation is doing to Ukraine is doing nothing caused by an act of aggression and, of course, it is not just my assessment, it is an assessment of almost the entire democratic world and almost the entire planet and it is not the first, as some claim, that is the second attack on international order and on an internationally recognised country on the ground of Europe after World War II. The first such attack took place in the 1990s when the aggression against the internationally recognised Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina was committed and therefore we hope that Kiev will not be exposed to long-standing siege, destruction and killing of civilians and children, such as Sarajevo, and there is a great resemblance to what we now see happening in both Kiev and all of Ukraine. The adequate and consistent reactions of the democratic world will also depend on whether Harkov, Odesa, Herson or Mariupolj will go through the same sufferings, genocide, urbicide, exodus of the population, ethnic cleansing, killings and mass crimes through which Srebrenica, Visegrad, Foča, Prijedor, Gorazde, neighbouring Vukovar and many other cities have been in front of the world in the 1990s. All the aggression in BiH in 1992 has not been observed for a long time, enbarko was introduced on arms imports, but BiH has managed to defend itself and preserve its territorial integrity and sovereignty. Now, as we can see, the West is much more engaged, the Ukrainian people do not have an enbargo on weapons, has the support of the entire free and democratic world. On this right side of history is and must remain BiH, because when it comes to fighting between good and evil then there must be no and no calculations whatsoever. Good is good, and evil is evil and they clearly differ, there is no environment, there is no neutrality when you choose between civilization and barbarism, neutrality in such situations is nothing but translucent hypocrisy and cowardice. Unfortunately, some BiH politicians have decided to take a neutral stance and thus defactly put themselves on the wrong side of history along with Belarus, North Korea, Eritrea and Syria. Let us be sure that mankind will remember this and that history will especially record those who tried to justify the destruction of international order and civilization values. Even Switzerland, which has traditionally been a neutral country for centuries, has decided this time to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation and condemn the act of aggression against the internationally recognised state of Ukraine. I sincerely hope that the understanding of this and the aggression of one state to another state will overcome the relic... of the past and that in international politics and cannot, and must not be worth the law stronger, because if we allow it to return to a state which one philosopher, English philosopher Hobs defined as a war against all, such a kind of conflict in the 21st century would lead the world and civilization to destruction. 8 We should all together condemn every attack on any internationally recognised state, thus protecting ourselves and the right to our freedom, is the international order now rests on two principles, first on the principle of non-violence of borders and second on the principle of respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty of internationally recognised states, and that, without exception, everyone must respect or risk being expelled from all institutions and forms of co-operation in the modern democratic order. The UN Charter also known as the Constitution of the Earth in Article 2(2) (4) prohibits the use of force against territorial integrity or political independence by internationally recognised states. The 1975 Helsinki Final Act, which forms the basis of European and international security, prohibits border damage and guarantees the territorial integrity of recognised states. If anyone has any doubts about what the Russian Federation, as a follower of the Soviet Union, is doing in Ukraine, and it is brutal and nothing caused by agrassion, it is sufficient to quote one sentence in Article 4. The Helsinki Final Act, which reads: "The participating countries will refrain from subjecting the territory of another country to military occupation or other measures to contrary international law. No such occupation or capture will be legally recognised." Therefore, international law makes it clear that we are currently witnessing in Ukraine an act of military occupation, or aggression. We can't pretend we can't see it, silence on such actions is actually approval. Given the above, I think that all BiH authorities should continue to clearly insist on the already busy views of condemning Russia's aggression on the internationally recognised state of Ukraine, that they should take clear political, legal and all other views, no play of words and no requirement for neutrality will diminish our obligation and responsibility to the people of Ukraine. The legal basis for BiH institutions' behaviour is not at all controversial, it exists in several laws, strategies and international acts, which we have signed and ratified. I therefore call on all those present to finally accept the conclusions that will arise from this debate in order for all BiH institutions, each of them in their jurisdiction, to take measures to assist Ukraine and all its citizens. While I was chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers within 7 to 10 days, we referred material, financial and humanitarian assistance to all parts of the world wherever there was a major natural disaster, from Albania, Greece, Croatia, Turkey, etc. We should do so today with Ukraine, and therefore providing financial and material assistance to BiH to the state of Ukraine will be one of today's proposed conclusions, as well as an adequate reception of refugees who decide to come to BiH. Someone may say how useful Ukraine is to help small BiH. If we are a small country, the city of Kiev alone has as many inhabitants as BiH, the area of Ukraine is even twelve times larger, sorry, from the surface of BiH, but this is not about this, this is about symbolism, the messages we send and which BiH must send both to its citizens and to the entire democratic world. If we do not stand up for freedom and democracy in every part of the world, then we will not be able to advocate these values in any country or country of our own. This is about whether we are on the side of 150 civilised and democratic states of the world, which have clearly condemned aggression and decided to help Ukraine or whether we will be together with Belarus and North Korea, the difference is huge. We all closely follow the developments in Ukraine, but we can now say that the courage and resistance of the Ukrainian people, just like the courage of Bosanac and Hercegovac, who defended Bosnia and Herzegovina, will remain remembered as an example of fighting for human dignity and freedom. I wish them much happiness and success in their liberating struggle, every good. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11243	Thank you fellow chairman, Mr. Zvizdić. And the word has a representative, jasmin Emrić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11244	I thank the esteemed and esteemed chairman. I am joining the previous discussions of my colleagues and colleagues, and I would like to propose some conclusions in line with today's topic of this urgent session for the institutional assistance of the BiH population and the attack on the state of Ukraine. Today, when the brutal aggression of the ruski federacija on Ukraine is under way, when they are destroyed and tried to surround the largest Ukrainian cities, including the capital of Kiev, when the ruthlessly shelling and destroying the entire Ukrainian economy, economic, transport and other infrastructures, when housing settlements and civilians are not spared, when unscrupulous and monstrous killings of innocent people, including children, regardless of age, is a moral obligation for us to condemn aggression, to condemn this brutal war campaign in which a member of the UN Security Council feels powerful in the wake of its strategic interests and impedimentist initiatives and to conquer the UN member and internationally recognised state of Ukraine. All of us in BiH, who still have fresh memories of aggression against our country and the horrors of the war that survived our citizens, must clearly and unequivocally raise our voice against violations of international law, against violations of the UN Charter's basic principles. We must raise our voice against the threat of peace and stability, against killing an innocent population and against every form of war and armed conflict, and especially against aggression aimed at the occupation of the internationally recognised state of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. And if we are aware of our limited possibilities, I believe that we must solidarity with the people of Ukraine, we must show that we understand their pain, understand their suffering, and that the state of BiH should provide humanitarian and any other assistance that is now necessary to the people of Ukraine to help them under these dramatic war circumstances. In this regard, I urge the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH to make the necessary decisions to join the civilised world and all countries that have already provided and which provide different aspects of assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine. I also consider it necessary for all other levels of government in BiH to be organised in accordance with their capabilities to provide humanitarian assistance to the people of Ukraine. I therefore propose the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on the BiH Presidency to urgently make the necessary decisions to provide humanitarian movement to the population and to the state of Ukraine. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently secure financial resources, organise and deliver the necessary humanitarian, health and other necessary assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on both entities, cantonal governments, municipalities and cities in BiH to organise and provide humanitarian assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine in accordance with their capabilities. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11245	Thank you. Dear Representative Osmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11246	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to welcome, on behalf of the SDA MPs' Club, today's 12th emergency session of the BiH Paraliamentary Assembly of Representatives' House of Representatives, with the agenda point – the procedure of the BiH institutions regarding the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, including the taking of concrete measures. It is good that the BiH state, that our officials have condemned the Russian Federation's military aggression on Ukraine, an internationally recognised state, a UN member and, of course, expected the highest legislative home in BiH to do the same. My predecessors said in their statements that the Bosnian Herzegovina people are particularly emotionally experiencing all this happening in Ukraine's space, we hope that Kiev will not go through all that googoto that the capital of BiH has gone through, and we particularly hope that Srebrenica will not happen in Ukraine's space. In order to give the importance of this session and these agenda points in full capacity, I would like to propose, on behalf of the SDA Members' Club, a resolution on the condemnation of aggression on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11247	Reiterating the importance of the Charter of the United Nations in promoting the rule of law among the nations; Recalling the obligation of all states on the basis of Article 2. In its international relations, the Charter refrains from the threat of force or the use of force against territorial integrity and political independence of each country, and the use of force in any other way that is incompatible with the objectives of the United Nations; bearing in mind the importance of maintaining and strengthening international peace based on freedom, equality, justice and respect for human rights, and the development of friendly relations between the nations, regardless of their political, economic and social systems or the degree of their development; reminding of the Resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations 3314, of 14 December 1974, which defines aggression as the use of the armed forces by the State against the sovereign, sovereignty, territorial integrity or political independence of another country or in any other way that is not in accordance with the Charter; the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 12 March 20nd of March 2015, in the Bulgarian Republic of Croatia. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina strongly condemns the aggression of the Russian Federation on Ukraine and its sovereignty, territorial integrity and 11 independence and calls on the Russian Federation to immediately stop the military attack and withdraw its troops from Ukrainian territory. The House of Representatives condemns the recognition of the self-proclaimed regions of Donjecka and Luhanska, as this act constitutes a harsh violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and undermines the foundations of the international order; 2. The House of Representatives gives full support to the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine in its internationally recognised borders, which is also a fundamental element in relations and co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine; 3. The House of Representatives expresses full solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people and calls on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide humanitarian and other appropriate assistance to Ukraine in this for them and for all the peaceful world at a difficult time; 4. The House of Representatives strongly and resolutely supports the European Security Order, whose fundamental principles are contained in the Charter of the United Nations and in the basic documents of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, including the Helsinki Final Act and the Paris Charter, and rest on sovereign equality and territorial integrity of states, integrity of borders, abstention of threat or use of force, and freedom of state to choose or change their own security arrangements; 5. The House of Representatives stresses that in the context of the security situation in Eastern Europe, maintaining dialogue between all international relevant actors, calming tensions and aggressive rhetoric while respecting the international legal order and the integrity of international borders is the key to maintaining peace and stability in the region; 6. The House of Representatives firmly believes that the safe, stable and prosperous Ukraine is in the strategic interest of all citizens of Ukraine, the European Union, the whole of Europe, world peace and international order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11248	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Nekšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11249	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for welcoming everyone present. Oh, yeah, well, there's just a guy who can't afford to keep his mouth shut at a time like this and not say a few facts. In BiH, we probably understand the people of Ukraine best, 30 years ago, the citizens of BiH expressed their overwhelming claim to the question – Are you for the sovereign and independent Bosnia and Herzegovina, the state of equal citizens, the people of BiH: musliman, Srbin, Hrvat and members of other peoples living in it? 12 So it was 30 years ago. On the side that some of them are working hard to erase this category of citizens today, it's not a topic, it's parallel to the fact that BiH was exposed to aggression a month after the referendum, and I think that most of the people sitting here in this room, I don't know if there are any younger ones, but that they're still fresh, that we still have fresh memories of sieges, shelling cities, civilian casualties, especially children and women. Russia's aggression on Ukraine is an apparent attack on the international legal order, but also the footage I see is an irresistible reminder of images from our cities in '92. '95. A year. I have no dilemma that we must strongly condemn Russian aggression, show solidarity and support to the heroic people of Ukraine, who is fighting a fair fight and I am glad that all colleagues and colleagues who spoke of it today have the same attitude. Unfortunately, here it should be said in our largest legislative body that BiH is also facing attacks on its sovereignty in various forms. Milorad Dodik, unfortunately, as a member of the BiH presidency is the only one of the European Lukašenko to stand next to the aggressor, who stood by Putin, who again is not only destroying Ukraine, he destroys both his people and his country. Call Ukraine's heroic defenders an armed gang, a statement by Mr. Dodik, or a shameless aggression only by armed conflict, said Dragan Čović, is no longer a matter of good taste but a serious problem with facts and truth, but Bog also points to serious links between the part of BiH's political establishment and the criminal structures of the Russian Federation. Of course, we've all been in politics a long time and there's not much that can surprise us in BiH. Today we listen to Putin, Lavrov, Lukašenko, Dodik as how like the former aggressors on our country convince us that the crimes and terrors committed against the civilians of Ukraine are, in fact, the consequences of Ukraine's behaviour. I guess by the logic of these crazy aggressors, the army and the people of Ukraine were supposed to welcome an aggressor army with flowers and gifts, I guess they expected the legally elected government of Ukraine to withdraw because they didn't like the tyrant Putin. Of course, that we must mention what we have in BiH, we are a small country, but just because of what we have recently experienced it is important to determine ourselves. I would say that it was even an opportunity for us in BiH to finally identify ourselves in a unique way, if we could not agree and face the truth that we have the rightful judgments of the International Court of Justice on genocide or a joint criminal enterprise, if some had the problem of admitting it because in this way they are doing psychological pressure and insulting those who have done these crimes, of course the psychological state of the victims is not very concerned, I guess it was logical, and Bog tells me more about them, and also the loud silence of some who are obviously in close connection and coordination, and they had allies in the Russian Federation for their relationship and the collapse of the institutions of the BiH state of BiH. In the name of the Club, Saša supported the proposal for a bigger conclusion, I just want to say that I am really glad that we held this session today, regardless of what we were not in full composition, but it is very important to hear a voice from BiH, especially from this Parliament, regardless of our size, but given the view, I repeat, what we started to experience here 30 years ago, and after three or four years, it stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11250	Thank you. Dear Representative Begić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11251	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's administrative service. 13 Today we are gathered together to support peace, to support democracy, to support human rights and freedoms, to support international law and to lean upon the discussion of counterpart Nikšić, we may be a small country, but we all remember, that is, the story of an ant carrying a drop of water when it burned in a great fire of forests, it was important for him to know exactly which side is on which side, and it is very important to know which side we are on. The Bosnian-Herzegovic people understand very well the people of Ukraine, the Bosnian-Herzegovic people, our fathers, our mother and we who are here, in the 1990s, refused to be part of Milosevic's Saltate, our mother, and our fathers and we are naked in front of the war machine of the fourth military force in Europe, refusing to burn and kill in the name of the great state policy in our brotherly countries and to shoot at the brotherly peoples. Then we thought our neighbors wouldn't forget it, today we hope they remember it. I'd like to point out one thing, and I'd like to pray that there are only bad policies from here, no bad people, no bad nations, no bad ethnic groups, no national minorities, there are only bad policies, there are only bad political leaders. In this regard, he would refer to today's lack of presence of colleagues from Republika Srpska's entities. Of course, I support all the conclusions and this operational conclusion made by my colleague Kojović in terms of forming a commission that would consist of representatives of all clubs, but here we see that we do not have colleagues from Republika Srpska with us today. Whether they're good people or not, I wouldn't be getting into it right now, but my conclusion is that we don't have opposition in Republika Srpska, it seems to me that we only have worse copies of a very bad original and I think we have to figure it out here. In this sense, the brotherly Serb people, the Russian people will have to deal in a democratic sense with their political leaders in a democratic way and be determined in view of future events and circumstances that inevitably come for both the world and BiH. My personal support, the support of the Democratic Front to the people of Ukraine, their struggle, would also join the call, and we are already doing it in Tuzla Canton, we have launched some activities, to help in every way possible, because I fear that everything that the international community has blinded and looked through the fingers when it comes to BiH in the 1990s, that 25 years later they were welcomed right in Ukraine. One indiscipline draws another, then comes to the domino effect, endangers peace and security, here we saw last night they burned nuclear power plants, all the way to the dangers of all humanity. Unskilled lessons, unscrupulous compromises from the 1990s in the BiH area today reflect on the situation in Ukraine. Supporting the Ukrainian people, I want them to endure in their fair fight, and I also want Russian soldiers and Russian people to understand that they have nothing to look for in a foreign country or in other people's territory, and most of all I want to see political representatives from Republika Srpska entity understand that the message they sent today, and it is double, is not at least correct, or fatal for both the Serbian people and for BiH, and for the whole region. Double because it was first sent to the international community, putting that nation aside from those who support totalitarianism, aggression, international peace and security violations, and on the other hand sent to us here in a sense that we would not mind something similar happening in the BiH area. And that's what I'm concluding because today is not and must not be neutral, the one who is neutral in all of this, in all of these events that are happening in front of our eyes, he's actually for destruction, for military power, for violation of rights and all that comes out of it. Long live BiH, glory to Ukraine. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11252	Thank you very much. Just for the sake of working dynamics to inform you, we have five more reported, plus Minister Cikotić, after two more exhibitions we will give a break from 11:45 to 12:45 and we will return to further debate on this agenda point. Dear Representative Đonlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11253	I thank the chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the topic today is the conduct of BiH institutions, it is very important to say that BiH institutions have an attitude on Russian military aggression in Ukraine. BiH institutions are doing their job in accordance with constitutional competences, the BiH presidency is already acting in accordance with the political stance of 2014, which practically means it is acting in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and in this sense the BiH institutions have both sent a message to Ukraine and the civilized world that we are not neutral. The Charter of the United Nations means respect for international public law and territorial integrity and sovereignty of states. BiH has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, thus taking the obligation to respect, respect and follow the European Union's foreign policy. With all this in mind that BiH institutions have, on the basis of earlier decisions and signed and assumed international obligations, their political stance is very important to send again a message that BiH ambassadors to the United Nations and the Council of Europe, Sven Alkalaj and Ivan Orlić, have done a great job and have rightfully placed our country on the right side of history and civilization where the citizens of BiH belong. In this way, by voting for the United Nations Resolution condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine and voting for Russia's eviction from the Council of Europe as a state, we have shown a clear, unequivocal act of political support to Ukraine. We are as a state in this way not only naturally but also institutionally on the side of civilised states and societies, so we are not neutral. In this context, a step further should be taken and I see in this context the purpose and purpose of this today's session, which is the adoption of these sets of conclusions in terms of concreteising certain measures from the aspect of humanitarian law and economic and material assistance. So, institutionally, we have already acted politically, expressed our political position on the international public scene in the institutions, so above all in the United Nations and the Council of Europe, and these conclusions on concrete measures and activities by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should go to the greatest extent possible, which is our jurisdiction, according to the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11254	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11255	Thank you, Chairman. Russia began its aggression on Ukraine last Thursday and the signing of requests for this emergency session we began immediately and I welcome the fact, chairing that you called the session without delay, that we did not wait for a regular session next week. There is no time to wait, not only because every day is important for Ukraine and its citizens, and that any assistance at this time is important and from the point of view of what we will specifically direct, but also in terms of creating a wider 15-world resistance to this fragrant aggression. With this in mind, BiH has a special obligation to raise its voice, we have suffered the worst aggression in Europe since the end of World War II, our voice has an exceptional symbolism and today we send it from the most appropriate body, this high home. In addition to this symbolism, which is of great importance for these reasons, I propose concrete moves, to order the BiH Council of Ministers, which is responsible for this House, to extend without delay the period of visa-free stay of the citizens of Ukraine on BiH's territory from the current 30 to 90 days. To order the Council of Ministers to introduce without delay the possibility of bringing citizens of Ukraine into BiH with ID cards, they can now enter only with passports, and in chaos that is currently in Ukraine, especially in those areas where refugees are most fleeing the possibility of extracting passports is not a routine thing. To order the Council of Ministers to introduce a visa regime without delay for citizens of the Russian Federation, namely to leave the visa-free regime agreement concluded between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Russian Federation, this is not a matter for the presidency, it is not ratified, this is an agreement between the two governments and the Council of Ministers can unilaterally break it. I remind you, and this is very important, that according to the agreement, the holders of the Russian Federation's diplomatic passports can enter BiH without a visa to fight for up to 90 days, this is an extremely important security issue, and BiH must not allow the destruction of the diplomatic passports of Putin's regime in our country at this time. It is known who these people would be and what purpose they would come to dig around BiH for 90 days. To order the Council of Ministers to direct urgent humanitarian and medical assistance to Ukraine and its citizens. Speaking of the Council of Ministers, I really can't miss to point out the fact, I have here calls that the chairman of this House sent to every member of the Council of Ministers, namely the same day that he sent those calls to this emergency session to the MPs in this House. The 28 of us came, from the Council of Ministers we have only Minister Cikotić and I welcome his presence, but I condemn the fact that the only 20 ministers and deputies sitting in that body are devastating considering what we are discussing today. The Croatian Parliament held a session on Ukraine yesterday and the prime minister of the country detailed the state of affairs in Ukraine, the moves taken and planned by the Republic of Croatia, the status and status of Croatian citizens in Ukraine, and a number of other issues. The government of the Republic of Croatia did not wait for the Parliament to give them tasks, call them in, but instead informed the Parliament of what the government had done and what it was doing. And in this House, here, there is no Council of Ministers Chairman Tegeltija, but there is neither his deputy Mrs. Turković nor Mr. Bevanda. It is therefore of paramount importance to adopt this opposition proposal as soon as possible, to adopt two laws from the 14 priority list in this House, which are already in the procedure in this House, following an emergency procedure already next week. So, the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on VSTV, let us inform Brussels of this with a request for candidate status. This homework was to be carried out as soon as we received it as a country, as early as May 2019, it will be worth three years, not waiting for it to burn to the nail like this. Who now votes against these two laws, the VSTV and the conflict of interest, will vote not only against the European future of BiH but also against security and stability in these areas. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11256	Thank you. Of course, if the honourable MPs who have ordered the debate might be a little short of their discussion, then we might as well finish this part of today's session, this first part and before 12:00. Dear Representative Mehmedović, discussion. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the distinguished guests after the emotional presentation of colleague Đapo, which only a mother can do, has in many ways defined what I am going to say today about this point of the agenda. I support every spoken word and proposal of the measures we've heard, here, from colleagues and fellow MPs, because it's not our job to be in favour of or against Ukraine or Russia today, we're here today to make it clear that we're on the side of good, and against evil, it's our civilization task today. It's not even the Russian soldier's fault that someone sent him to Ukraine, it's the result of bad government, bad leadership, bad system. We in BiH understand the people of Ukraine better, but we also want to understand the mothers of Russian soldiers, so we call on the Ukrainian people to persist in their honorable struggle and to make it clear that small BiH is on their side, because they are on the side of the truth. We call upon Russian soldiers to cancel obedience to the system of aggression, regardless of the excuses or privileges they expect, because the disabled, the dead come out of war, and they come out of war, and nothing is worth human life. We call on Serbia to side with the truth, to side with the good and to build a happier and better future with other Balkan countries in the European Union and NATO. We invite all world leaders to behave responsibly and preserve civilization values by respecting the diversity of all of us, to offer our young and future generations a better environment than we have, which is our mission. We call on friendly countries to facilitate and facilitate our European path to Europe and NATO. Of course, I call on both our colleagues and colleagues in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, who unfortunately are not with us today, to cast down the shackles and fear of the leaders and the policies he represents and to distance themselves from the policies of evil that have kept us both in a state of war and peace for years, we give you the hand of co-operation with respect to the universal values of humanity. The world is finally not and will not be, no longer the same, and what it will look like depends on the action humanity will take. That is why we call on the Council of Ministers to do its job responsibly and to respect the conclusions we will adopt today, but also to make it easier for the citizens of BiH to deal with the crisis resulting from Russia's aggression in Ukraine. I call on the Presidency to consider a resolution proposed by six US senators who will likely be adopted today and to pay particular attention to points 12 and 13 to condemning the incendiary rhetoric of Bosnian-Herzegovic politicians who hold BiH hostage and condemn politicians who insist on corruption, which is actually the result of their personal wealth and that, and that prevents reforms on BiH's European and NATO path. Let our BiH live and every honor and recognition of the Ukrainian president and the Ukrainian people in battle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11258	Thank you. Honorable representative Čolo, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11259	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have no written speech for this item of the agenda, I have no dilemma about war, I am on the side of the international legal order, on the side of the Charter of the United Nations, on the side of Geneva conventions on the protection of prisoners of war and civilians during wartime. I had a chance to see last night, and you probably saw the attack on the Zaporože nuclear power plant and a speech by President zelenski warning of a nuclear disaster that could happen in that part of Europe. Many of us remember 1986. For 17 years and they remember Černobil, according to a report by the UN Committee for the Effects of Atomic Radiation of Belarus, Ukraine and the Russian Federation had 20,000 documented thyroid gland cancers in the area of the three countries. I do not know why Republika Srpska MPs are not here today with us, does this mean that they support war, does this mean that they support the mass exodus of mothers with children, who are at the borders of Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic, does this mean that they are insensitive to the tears of children in these columns, does this mean that they support the danger of nuclear disaster? Chernobyl and Zaporože nuclear power plants are not far from BiH, they are not far from Republika Srpska either, does this mean that they are insensitive to what can happen to the whole world, do they not fear for the fate of their children? I think they had to be with us here today, I think they had to condemn violence, crimes against humanity and call for maximum diplomatic efforts to achieve immediate and unconditional peace. The conclusion they draw is the conclusion of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska in no way justifies them that they are not here with us today.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11260	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Nada Mladina, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11261	Thank you very much. I warmly welcome you all to the Honorable Chairman, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I also don't have a prepared discussion in writing. I would like to say that BiH, in my opinion, does not have all of us on the agenda just to join many of those who condemn Russia's aggression against the internationally recognised country of Ukraine, not only because it does not join, BiH is among the first to have such aggression, has survived, and I have survived in the first BiH delegation for the time of the war in Belgrade in one great tribune, and there have been many large stands in the cities of Serbia, asked – and what do you think the aggressor, who is the aggressor? The aggressor for me is anyone who shoots uncontrollably in cities, civilians, children, soldiers, anyone who does that to an internationally recognised state, and that was the case with our country, unfortunately. I am disappointed by the fact that the United Nations has been losing more and more, unfortunately, since the time of the war in BiH. Another, great forces are driving world peace and threatening world peace and this aggression of Russia, the Russian Federation in Ukraine, suggests that there is a great threat to world peace, and thus peace, quite justifiable, in the Western Balkans and in our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would only like with the support of all the proposals made by colleagues and colleagues and conclusions, therefore, full support, to add to the fact that it is necessary to conduct conflict-distribution negotiations, because this must not and must not last long, human sacrifices must not be so large and must not be subordinated to the objectives of any leader, any leader. So I urge both colleagues and colleagues to draw conclusions, to appeal and demand that tensions be speeded up and calmed down and negotiations to end the conflict. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11262	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11263	Good afternoon, good afternoon to my colleagues and colleagues, to you, the chairman and Mrs. Krišto. So, there are things that I would also like to say today on behalf of myself and in the name of the club, and there are things that I could, of course, not say but I think it would be good to hear them here today. In fact, this is the most I'm going to say right now by Mrs. Mladina who said that we are here because we have compassion for the Ukrainian people and she said it well, so, because one of our colleagues has said somewhere before that today that we are joining all those who are on the side of Ukraine. So anyway, I welcome what you said and I'm here because I want to join a fair fight of the Ukrainian people, no matter who joined it or I don't join it, and I respect what you said, so. And it seems to me, and I hope, therefore, it's not likely today's place, nor is it time for a great debate, that a part of the colleague did not approach this way, no matter what he's saying here, therefore, no matter what a part of them has come here to say their own frustrations or political goals, one part has expressed hypocrisy, therefore, which is unique to him. So, without respecting what you and I have just said here that we are, to join a fair fight of the Ukrainian people just because they deserve it, because they are attacked, because someone touches them and has no right to do so. But here's to honor and will, and another colleague said he was glad that we met today even in incomplete composition. I don't like it, I don't like it, I wish we were in complete harmony today, I would love it, and that's why I said the previous sentence, that some of us used it today for their own political views, so I wish we were complete here today. I know, Mr. Chairman, that you called this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and at the request of a certain number of colleagues as the emergency session is called, I don't know what's so urgent, but here's the emergency, a part of my colleague thinks it's a terrible emergency. So, I'm... according to my information, you haven't even tried to talk to your colleagues from the college before we call the session, so you'll eventually try to arrange for us all to be here, so we'll all be here. So, I don't know if my colleague is afraid, if they don't have their position, maybe this is the way they express their position and I don't think I'm defending them, but I would like them to be there, too, to have the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives take a common position on these issues that we are talking about today and these proposals for conclusions that have fallen today. I have information that you haven't tried that, but that's how you're using the Rules of Procedure that you called on your side simply a session and that's okay. Why am I saying this? Because I suggest, therefore, that all the conclusions, each of them are almost acceptable to me, I will only comment on some of them that have been proposed whether the performances are, therefore, suggest that we leave the conclusions, call first and foremost after this debate of the College in an extended composition and that the conclusions we propose are pranalized and that we bring them to the session on Wednesday. Because I hope so because they have their laws and proposals of the law that colleagues will be there and that these conclusions will be reached in unambiguous, unanimous terms, if possible in full agreement. I don't see any reason either of the colleagues who aren't here today, so they don't support these conclusions that we're going to eventually, here, clean up a little bit on the College in an extended composition or whatever. So that's why I suggest that today when we take a break, we keep the College in an extended composition, we'll probably have to first, because there are a lot of conclusions that, even some of them, are similar, and that if you accept, then, to make a statement on them on Wednesday, here we talked about today, and let's say 19 I don't mind. I don't think these two days are such an emergency and it's very important that we make, if possible, as a whole that decision. As for one piece, so I'm going to use this debate to comment on some of the proposals that were going down here. So, Mr. Kojović said that he was talking about the proposal to bring three laws, or two, because the zakon, as it is said, on public procurement, passed the procedure in this House, through a working body, etc. I don't think that's right, so I don't know if I'm going to say it's time to say the punch today, what is it, so there's whoever's proposing the laws, there's how they're being passed, and there's what the procedure is. So, and to propose such a thing, the same thing that we have scheduled today, and we know that neither today nor can we make these conclusions, we know that we cannot bring them by our Rules of Procedure, nor these bill proposals, so I suggest that we try this on Wednesday to somehow bring it, to try to get some peace between us, to some agreement, even if what is happening in Ukraine is something that will motivate us to solve things with ourselves, and not to further deepen ourselves between ourselves me and the misunderstandings, etc. So, I don't know what it means to form a task force and bring up proposals for some texts of these two laws, and we know we can't pass them. So, is that, is it just populism or what it is, I don't understand why it's so proposed, it's got procedures, it's got everything, it's got texts of some that are even in the procedure, so let's think about it. The second thing, Mr. Magazinović suggested, and later joined, I think, and Mr. Arnaut about the visa regime, the extension of the deadline, etc. I'd also like to know by Wednesday whether it's possible to do so legally, so whether it's necessary to intervene in the law, I don't mind, but to see, therefore, whether it's a legal possibility to do such a thing, including taking visas from people from Russia, etc. It's simple to see that we don't bring anything here that's legal and that has to be intervened in law, just to think about it. Mr. Zvizdić, therefore, and you were saying, therefore, your observations on this and on the subject which, today on the agenda, therefore, you said that in the 1990s was the first attack on the territory of Europe, such as this and the shape, was in Slovenia, which was in Croatia, so perhaps even before BiH, you may have forgotten it, but here, or maybe it's in the package whether. A colleague, Begić, spoke with such signs and said his neighbours should thank him for not going there to shoot at our brotherly peoples and countries next door. I'm not sure I'm Mr. Begić didn't all go there, there were them there who fired, and maybe even here not to pick up, but it's also not a debate on today's subject. And so, finally, I will end up with, that I suggest, therefore, that all these conclusions, other than those practical ones, be helped in the goods and materials needed by the people of Ukraine, can be solved by one, with two sentences of conclusion, to join all these declarations and resolutions, what the European Parliament has brought, therefore, to the UN, we do not have what, in particular, therefore, of course we are on the side of Ukraine, of course we respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity of Ukraine and we have nothing to say. One of the most powerful messages was sent right from the Croatian state, and on behalf of the Croatian people, which I belong to, which I am also very pleased and I am glad that this happened and I am standing in this position and it seems to me that with only one sentence we would like to join all these resolutions, some of it is the SDA and put in this resolution, if I am not mistaken, so we can satisfy it. We are a small country, I'm not sure how much help we can make, and it's very important that we have a view on this, and I'm also happy to talk about this, but I'd like to see the final conclusions, the final proposals that have been going down today, so we bring it in Wednesday, if at all possible and if you agree with it, because everything else, you know as well as that it's insufferable today, so it's simply impossible today in our Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, what one of us are going to think about right now are colleagues who aren't here, what is it, etc. Now, I'm not repeating myself, so if you have any understanding, I don't think two days means anything and on Wednesday we can fine-tun all of this here today and bring it in, so if there's any will and desire, then, as a single Parliament or at least to be unique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11264	Thank you. Your discussion caused three wrong allegations and I'm fourth, but I won't report because my answer will only be in one sentence. So, you misinformed Mr. Lovrinović and unilaterally obvious, because I heard from Mr. Radmanović before the session was scheduled, in the meantime I also heard from Mr. Šarović, therefore, it is not true and it is completely incorrect Your information that without talking to our colleagues, I have scheduled a session. Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11265	I really didn't mean to answer, because, of course, as soon as we're here and as soon as I'm one of the applicants of the emergency session initiative, I know what attitudes I have, and all of us who survived the war in BiH, of course, are sympathetic, and I'm one of them, so I've been in my town all along, all the time, and I'm sympathetic with the people of Ukraine, but here's Mr. Lovrinović always inspires me to discuss myself. So, the first correction of the wrong allegation is that it is not true that Republika Srpska's colleagues did not take a position on the issue, they were very clear yesterday to announce their position on the appointment of this session, because they say they are convinced that the session is scheduled to deepen divisions and cause conflicts in BiH, imagine. If it meant solidarity and condemnation of what is happening and our assistance we want to send in all possible ways would cause, deepen divisions and conflicts in BiH, I would be very interested in how and how. They obviously want to put aside the really minor rest of the world that this is not doing the same, and what is particularly important here is that, that colleagues from Republika Srpska are constantly disinforming the public and calling for some legal documents, including this Dayton Agreement, which everyone obviously interprets in the way he wants them to, because they say in their position that Republika Srpska MPs are committed to preserving peace, the Dayton Agreement, constitutional principles, etc. If they did, they would know that it is part of the Dayton Treaty of the Constitution, and that the Constitution says that there is a Parliament and that the only, fundamentally not only is the fundamental obligation for us parliamentarians to work in this Parliament. Therefore, it is not true that they have not taken a stand and this attitude is clearly clear. I'll leave my colleague Kojović to point out the allegations he made about his, his proposals, and I also don't know why we should be here right now, and it's degutant that at this point we're actually talking about whether the war started in Slovenia or in BiH first, anyway. was the bloodiest and I don't know why mentioning Croatia, I think we are BiH and we should be able to read about Ukraine and offer it the help that Croatia did. [[Advocacy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11266	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break by 12:45. 21 [[PAUZA]] We'll be moving on in a few minutes, waiting only for colleagues from the U.S.A. to join us and continue with the session. Okay, here's your colleagues coming up, and Mr. Đonlagić, so we have the quorum, we can move on. Let's move on, Reverend Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11268	First of all, I wish you all a good day. So we are gathered here in this capacity, in this House and in this number it is clear that we are all unique in one thing, condemning the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and this condemnation I strongly and sincerely join myself personally, my colleague Lovrinović said this on behalf of our club, and I will remind myself that all the relevant representatives of the Croatian people in these last few days have clearly condemned this aggression, here I think of the main, main Council of the Croatian National Assembly and their statement about the relationship here, here I think of the more publicly stated statements made by the President of the Croatian National Assembly, Mr Dragan Čović, and I find the team completely unnecessary and incorrect what the context in which my colleague Nikšić mentioned Dragan Čović today in this debate, and I must say that I do not understand that context, but I understand the motives that work here, but these motives are irrelevant and really unnecessary. Besides what we have in particular to add to the condemnation when we have the almost plebiscite condemnation of this aggression by the United Nations in one resolution, and most importantly for us, BiH has also supported this resolution. It is almost less important in the context of our today's sessions, but our overall political situation, that this condemnation in the United Nations was also supported by the Republic of Serbia. To be said here, I agree, it is in one symbolic sense important that BiH also says something about this Parliament, because this is deja vu – already seen, not only at a number of locations in BiH but also in the Republic of Croatia from Dubrovnik to Vukovar. Therefore, by not wanting to correct the wrong allegations here, I refer to what counterparts Helez and counterpart Zvizdić said in Ukraine that this was another aggression on one sovereign country over the past 30 years, it is somewhat political, it is historically incorrect and it is important to say that it is not, that aggression was also on the Republic of Croatia, internationally recognised, in Slovenia there was something different situation, this little war was on them at the moment when the Republic of Slovenia was not internationally recognised, but here in this context important to deal with historical facts. I think the most we should say here and warn about what we can, where we can, and that is our question of how much we can help the Ukrainian people and Ukraine in the past. I was in Medjugorje yesterday with two Ukrainian families, I planned to go to Mass in the Ukrainian language, but I missed the term, came late, but I talked to the two families on one topic, whether more Ukrajinac, whether there was will be will, desire and ways to come to BiH. And then it was said that there certainly is, they are in particular, these people apostrophe of Medjugorje which they know, which they are pleased with and that there is also space. We need to provide this space financially, materially and institutionally, it is a question and a visa regime that they have specifically warned about, and here I fully agree that this type of assistance and material assistance, that we must provide it through all levels of government and through their competences in BiH to make it work. Reflections of this situation of Ukrainian or Russian throughout the world are clear and factual, yet I wouldn't dare give them here at this time to give epochal meaning as it was said in some 22 ways. Well, I'd say that's what we're doing in favor of one thesis that other part of Europe is a little insignificant and that all of those wars, they were also bloody, which were led on a series, on a large part of the space, most of it in the Middle East, have something more insignificant, but we're aware of what this one is wearing. However, when we talk about the reflection of this situation in BiH, I wouldn't submit to the catastrophic forecasts we've been hearing lately from the various analysts who are predicting this and that, even from here, I would ask all these species, all of these analysts, all of these prognosticators to intend us, not to call on BiH for something that doesn't need and will not happen. Caution, of course, is not excessive, so the issue of Euro-Atlantic integration is what we are, at least here, a unique, very important issue and is particularly relevant at this time as far as BiH is concerned. That is why it is good to update the issue of BiH's candidate status, especially when we see that the issue is also being updated by a number of people outside BiH, for example by the president of Croatia, Mr Milanović. In one more thing, it seems to me that this situation, for us in BiH, in the context of our mutual relations, we here, whatever we think, are sitting at the federal level, here except for Mr. Osmanović, represent the territorial half of this country and within that Federation, we have at this moment a series of open processes, a series of open issues, which should not be lying down and it seems to me that when we look from this distance to that situation in Ukraine and around Ukraine and Russia, that we could use a political catharsis in which we might change the view of the larger and more numerous relations in relation to the smaller and smaller one in this country, you know what I'm talking about, and you know well what processes I think and it would be good, and it would be important that these processes do not stand, but that they take place in BiH, so I say in light of something different views on these relations. When we talk about the conclusions, it seems to me, too, that it would be good to sum up the conclusions in a certain way in a single document, which, in terms of speech and form, would be on the trail of the UN Resolution just to give it a chance for such a document to become a formal-legal document of this House, and you know how that, how a document can formally become a document of this House. As this UN Resolution gave its tone of speech a chance to be plebiscitely supported and of those of whom we were even surprised at that support, and that is very important when we agree this document to be so. About that much, come on, I still wrote it here, but it's already all said, so there's no point repeating it here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11269	Thank you very much. Representative Nermin Nikšić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Armed conflicts in Ukraine are an invitation to take special note of geopolitical and security challenges that must in no way spill over to the Western Balkans, nor threaten peace – said the chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr Dragan Čović, at a meeting with the leadership and members of the Croatian General Assembly. If there is somewhere that a man has condemned Russia's aggression against Ukraine, here I call for you to say publicly, I apologize then, I'm just quoting what we can find in the media and on Facebook, here. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11271	Thank you. Dear colleague Borjana Krišto, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11272	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. Given today's defined agenda item of today's session, as it is formulated, and it reads – the procedure of BiH institutions on the aggression of the Russian Federation on Ukraine, including the taking, in fact, concrete measures aimed at helping Ukraine and its citizens, it is clear that we, as a legislative body, cannot make any proposals or conclusions that would oblige any of the institutions in BiH. I wouldn't particularly remind you now, we all know, and we're aware of the situation that this House is working, of course, in the british composition, but I would like to say that every institution should do its job within the Constitution of defined competences, and so does this legislative body, that is, the Parliamentary House of BiH. And what am I saying? Today's theme of this session certainly deserves attention, so regardless of the attitudes that we have heard today and that each one has expressed in some way, so here we can ask each other how it uses, let me say, this situation and what kind of political messages it sends. I will also say that the frightening images of the bombing, the destruction that we see in the media the last days, whether on television screens, or via portals, social networks, certainly leave none of us, nor out of this room indifferent. This astonishment is certainly and certainly greater, given the extent to which we are discussing it, and especially we who are discussing it, and here it is often emphasized, especially by people who have been through and survived the horrors of the Homeland War, they feel it very well and know it. What I'm saying is that peace and stability are imperative and that every threat is a direct step forward of the principles on which today's Europe rests. Peace and stability must also be indisputable in Southeast Europe and must be protected from any kind of threat. As part of the political option, here and to which I belong through the president of our club, this is through a colleague of the Kožul who today said, we have expressed our views in a clear and unequivocal way, we have expressed this through the political option, through the president of the party, as a people through the institution of the Croatian National Assembly, and in particular as a people to whom we belong, and this is through the clearest and most pronounced attitudes expressed by the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU through the Croatian Parliament Declaration. Today we also made it clear that we condemn every threat of peace, that we have compassion for the victims, and that we are open to any kind of help. I tried to sublime this somehow to what I was listening to my colleagues and all through different visions, the suggestions of conclusions are kind of expressed. As a country that seeks EU and NATO membership, and should be, let me say, clear and unique, we have heard many of these proposals today, etc. I really don't know why we need it if today we all agree on a single attitude, which is condemnation, suffering and compassion with victims, etc. I don't know why we couldn't agree to go through form or extended college, etc. We sit down and agree on some ways, suggestions for conclusions that are appropriate to this House, and through which we can demonstrate our unique views, I think it would be the strongest and strongest message and support and for condemnation on one hand, and also for supporting the Ukrainian people who experience all these sufferings and these pains. I therefore want to reiterate once again that, as a country seeking EU and NATO membership, we should, through the form of our unique conclusions, support the views, i.e. Resolution 24 of the European Parliament and United Nations resolution, giving full support to the European Union's activities in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. However, here we have heard here today, I will repeat again, things perhaps that some of them are auctioned, perhaps as hypocrisy, let each one take for himself and analyze what it might be called and what it might be called, but I would like to note and draw attention to all of us, that indeed the seriousness of the situation, the war destruction and the human sacrifices that pay the price of this war do not really give anyone room to collect with them any day-to-day political points or draw any parallels. The key to maintaining peace and stability is just lying in dialogue, in calming tension, from holding back from aggressive rhetoric, and everything else is just counterproductive. So in my opinion, the message from today's session would have the weight it deserves, I will propose a single conclusion, which reads: The Parliamentary House of BiH supports the European Parliament resolution of March 01, 2022 on Russian aggression against Ukraine and the United Nations General Assembly Resolution on Ukraine, and gives full support to the European Union institutions in their activities in the invasion of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11273	Thank you. We've got the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11274	Thank you, Chairman. Just to point out that the conclusions I made in the discussion have been submitted to protocol, so they are now officially in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11275	Thank you. We no longer have registered deputies, we have Nikola Lovrinović, the correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11276	One part of it is the correction of the wrong allegation by chairing, so maybe I should have done this on the Rules of Procedure, so I suggested something similar to what Mrs. Krišto has now finer circled it, and I talked to you here before the session begins, so let's keep the College in an extended composition, see if we can put all these conclusions in this one, or we'll stay to vote on each conclusion individually and on the proposal that although it remains at each conclusion, the vote may be passed on Wednesday. You told me there's no such mood, maybe you'll say it in the microphone, but that everyone who suggested it would end today, is, I don't know, whatever you want, I'd like to hear it from you, uh, but you'll certainly give a break to prepare for the vote if it's already as you told me in, before the beginning of this sequel. 25 And now that I have reported under this, it means just to say to Mrs Lepić, so I am glad to be an inspiration, but I was at war all the time in BiH, I haven't been out of it for a day, if that means anything to you, and if that's important for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11277	Thank you. Of course, I wanted to talk about what the esteemed colleague Lovrinović was talking about, but before that, we heard from the Minister of Security, Mr Cikotić, and we give him our word, and then we will conclude and agree on a break and a time to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11278	Honorable Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice-President, Honorable MPs and MPs. I would like to express some kind of satisfaction and pride that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in this way defines its position and relationship and most of these discussions and the essence of this debate fully supports and, in terms of these conclusions or such a defined agenda point, I would like to introduce you to what is already taken into account in the Council of Ministers' debate, in terms of today's debate. In fact, in 2602, the Embassy of Ukraine in BiH submitted a request to the BiH Foreign Ministry for certain humanitarian aid. On the basis of respect and situation and urgency for the response of the BiH Foreign Ministry, the Council of Ministers sent a proposal for an emergency meeting of the Council of Ministers. The proposal was addressed to the chairman, but also to the minister of security and the minister of finance and vaults. Why these two? Because the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue allows the Council of Ministers to decide not only on acceptance but also on providing international assistance to neighbours and other countries in need. Regardless of the fact that we do not have a budget adopted for 2022 and that we are working on the principles of temporary funding in relation to the Interim Financing Decision as well as the Law on the Budget of the Institutions and the Current Reserve, which defined certain funds, and the Ministry of Security is in line with its obligation to propose on the basis of the available funds from the current reserve, it formed a proposal and sent it to the Council of Ministers, as well as to the Minister of Finance and Treasury, and we propose that BiH, in the form of financial assistance, be approved urgently and instructed to provide assistance of 200,000 euros. Other options will later be considered, what is still very important at this time is the fact that if the citizens of Ukraine seek protection and assistance in terms of accommodation and reception on BiH territory at this time we have at our disposal the capacities of the Azilant Centre in Delijas near Trnov, which, acting within the framework of the Ministry of Security and also the Centre for the reception of refugees and displaced persons located in Salakovic near Mostar, which operates within the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. If possibly within the meaning of these possibilities at this time, there are some questions available to me to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2022-03-04-0.u11279	We thank Minister Cikotić. So, we have no more reports, we have exhausted the discussion about today's session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. 26 So, as Mr Lovrinović has already said, I have spoken to him, I have spoken with all the conceivers, most of the club bosses and they are asking to take the proposed vote right now and in a separate order as these conclusions and suggestions are. So here's Mr. Lovrinović said he'd ask for a break if you agree, I don't know how long a half hour or half an hour is enough. Then I'll see you here at 14:15 at the conclusion vote. I also had a conclusion in front of me, here you are not in the meantime divided, that's what I said in my speech on the allocation of financial resources, just that conclusion that the Council of Ministers singled out financial resources to help Ukraine. Okay, I'll see you at 14:15. [[PAUZA]] I'm asking MPs to register, please, who hasn't registered. Please take your seats. Dear Đapo, please ask the members of the Interparliamentary Union to take their seats. All right, I hope we're all sitting down, we're registered, and we can also join the vote on the conclusions of the 12th Emergency Session of the House of Representatives. We will vote on the conclusions on how they were delivered, or announced in the MPs' statements during today's discussion. First, we vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the honourable representative, Edita Đapo, who reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requests all countries and organisations, members of the Peace Implementation Council to suspend the Russian Federation from this body urgently, Russia has committed aggression on Ukraine and cannot promote and implement peace in BiH as such. I'd like to make a statement on this conclusion. Thank you. Of the 29 present – for 24, against nothing, the 5. So there's a general majority, there's no entity majority, and we're going to go to the second round. Thank you. Mr. Kojović informed me that the Club of Representatives of our party is giving up the proposal for a conclusion on the maintenance of the Extended College. Let's move on, we are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Denis Zvizdić, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to set aside an amount of 250,000 euros to assist the citizens of Ukraine without delay from the current budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations. Please let us be clear about this conclusion. Of the 29 present – for 23, against nothing, abstentioned 6. So there's a general majority, there's no entity majority, and we're going to go to the second round. Thank you. 27 Let’s move on, we are voting on the proposal for the conclusions of Representative Jasmin Emrić, who reads, three are: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on the BiH Presidency to urgently make the necessary decisions to provide humanitarian assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently secure financial resources, organise and deliver the necessary humanitarian, health and other necessary assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on both entities, cantonal governments, municipalities and cities in BiH to organise and provide humanitarian assistance to the population and the state of Ukraine in accordance with their capabilities. I'd like to make a statement on the conclusion. Thank you. Of the 29 present – for 24, against none, abstentions 5. We've got the general majority, we don't have the entity majority, we go into the second round of statements. Furthermore, we are voting on the motion for a resolution on the condemnation of aggression on the Ukraine of MPs, which was proposed in front of the SDA Representatives' Club. Mr. Osmanović, as head of the club, read that resolution. Is there any need for me to read it to you again? No, no, no, no, no, no, Then we declare the resolution. Of the total 29 present – for 24, against nothing, abstentions 5. There's a general, and there's no entity majority, we'll go to the second round. Let's move on, we are voting on Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut's proposal, which reads: 1. It requires the BiH Council of Ministers to extend the period of visa-free stay of citizens of Ukraine on BiH territory from 30 days to 90 days without delay. 2. The Council of Ministers is required to introduce without delay the possibility of the entry of citizens of Ukraine into BiH with ID cards. 3. The Council of Ministers is required to introduce a visa regime without delay for citizens of the Russian Federation, namely to break up the Agreement on the visa-free regime concluded in 2013 between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation, it is necessary to immediately introduce a visa regime for holders of the diplomatic passports of the Russian Federation, which may remain without a visa for up to 90 days, taking into account the possibility of agents of Putin's regime to use this privilege with the aim of taking moves against BiH's interest. 4. The Council of Ministers is required to send urgent humanitarian and medical assistance to Ukraine. 5. The Council of Ministers shall be ordered to notify this House within 7 days of all details of the implementation of these conclusions. Please make a statement. Of the 29 present – for 24, against none, abstentions 5. There's a general, and there's no entity majority going to go into the second round. 28 I vote on the Opinion of Representative Borjana Krišto, which reads: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH supports the European Parliament resolution of 01 March 2022 on Russian aggression in Ukraine, we have here the number of resolutions, and the United Nations General Assembly Resolution on Ukraine, which gives full support to the European Union institutions in their response activities to the invasion of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine. Please let us be clear about this conclusion. Of the 29 people present – for 29, against no one, abstentioned none. There is, therefore, a dominant general majority, there is no entity majority going to the second round. We have exhausted the proposed conclusions and are finishing today's session of the House of Representatives, each well and see you next week. Session completed at 2:30.
