ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u1	43. Proposal of the Prague City Representative for the Act on Prostitution Regulation and Amendment of Certain Acts (Prostitution Regulation Act) /Departmental Press 115/ - First Reading I'm really asking you to stay calm. Thank you. We received the Government's position as House Press 115/1. The proposal submitted is justified by the Mayor hl. m. Prague. You're gonna swap. The proposal submitted is justified by Councillor of the Representation hl. m. Prague Lukáš Manhart, whom I also welcome here. I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u2	Madam President, Madam Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, the capital of Prague has taken advantage of its legislative initiative and at the June meeting of the Representation. m. Prague approved the bill on the regulation of prostitution in 2013. This law deals with the issue of law and legislation that has not yet been regulated. In principle, the basic basis for this proposal was the assumption that the issue of prostitution -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u3	Councilman, I am so sorry to interrupt. Don't take that as an expression of disrespect. Some of my colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, are now very dismal and speaking out loud and disturbing us in our discussion. I ask my colleagues on the left to calm down, and please continue. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u4	Thank you. This law deals with the issue of so far no law and legislation that has not been modified. This means that basically we are trying to define the issue of prostitution as the capital of Prague by law, define the conditions under which this activity can be operated, and further give the possibility of individual municipalities and cities to regulate and control this issue. The current approach taken by the Czech Republic is so called. an abolition approach where the State does not regulate the legislative area of prostitution and, in principle, only regulates negative accompanying phenomena that are linked to the phenomenon of prostitution. And it's specifically through the penal code. The capital city of Prague has therefore taken advantage of its legislative initiative because it has long, and not only the capital of Prague, faced the problem of prostitution. This phenomenon, as I have already mentioned, is accompanied by negative phenomena in the area of security, in the area of morality, in the area of public order. Only in the territory of the capital city of Prague is currently around 70 public houses and the capital city of Prague unfortunately in the current legislative situation can do nothing about this problem. The municipality regulates the area of prostitution in relation to the operation of this activity in public areas, when the capital adopted the decree in 2007, which became effective 1. 1. 2008 with the fact that the capital city of Prague excludes the operation and offer of prostitution in public areas. Thanks to this decree, there has been quite a significant change and improvement in this area in relation to public spaces. However, the capital city of Prague currently and, of course, the municipalities of the Czech Republic, which are facing this problem, do not have the possibility to regulate and control prostitution outside the public area. Our approach, so-called. The regulation, thus defining this problem, sets clear limits on the operation of this activity. There is a third approach, so-called repressive. For example, Sweden, which criminalizes the phenomenon of prostitution, took this route. We believe that this direction is not appropriate given that it essentially drives all persons in this area into illegality. The main purpose is therefore to eliminate the following non-blemishes, which are linked to prostitution. These are security problems, problems associated with violations of public order, moral problems and health risks. In our opinion, the Czech Republic is currently resigning from the health issue in the area of this activity. An expert group consisting of employees of the capital city of Prague, as well as experts in the area of the law related to the operation of prostitution, experts who deal with and are confronted with this phenomenon on a daily basis, participated in the creation of this law. Thus, the law defines the concept of prostitution, meaning, it is an activity, a voluntary offer of sexual services for remuneration. It defines the conditions of the natural persons under which this activity may be operated, giving the possibility, and this is very important, to municipalities to regulate this phenomenon by means of a generally binding decree. Analogies in this respect is with gambling, where municipalities currently also have the possibility through a generally binding decree to regulate lotteries and other similar games on their territory. That means the structure is the same as the gambling regulation. It also sets out the possibility of control mechanisms, where it gives the authority to carry out checks both to the city authorities and to the state authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic. There are often comments and, in my opinion, clichés that this law will ultimately mean that the Czech Republic and the state will become a pimp. I do not believe that if the Czech Republic approves this law, which would become part of the rule of law, it would ultimately mean that the Czech Republic and the state will become a pimp. We have long considered that, in the case of the approval of this law, we will propose an exemption from income tax for those persons operating the activity or not. After long discussions, we came to a conclusion and it seemed absurd to us that, at a time when the law would define the pursuit of prostitution, so that, at the same time, those who logically have income to do so, and in many cases not small, those persons should be exempt from income tax. The reason is simple - it would be unfair to other persons who are properly engaged in other business activities. Another criticism that has often been raised here is that the Czech Republic would have to terminate an international treaty that deals with the abolition and suppression of human trafficking. Yes, the fact is that the effectiveness of this law is linked to the termination of this international convention. However, in our opinion, in the opinion of the capital city of Prague, this convention is now being overcome, it is replaced by other international conventions dealing with the issue of human trafficking. I therefore believe that the Czech Republic would not resign from combating trafficking in human beings and other negative phenomena accompanying prostitution by terminating this Convention. I would like to point out that Germany did not accede to this Convention, the United States of America did not accede to this Convention, the neighbouring Austria, the Netherlands and other major world states did not accede to this Convention. Other comments were rather legislatively technical. I believe that if this law were to pass into second reading and to be discussed in committees, these comments and these reservations regarding the proposal of the capital city of Prague are removeable at second reading. As far as the main pillars are concerned, I would perhaps still mention the conditions under which this activity could be carried out. It seemed logical for us to define these conditions quite minimalistically, when persons who would like to operate this activity in accordance with the law would have to meet a completely logical condition of medical fitness, a condition of criminal integrity, which in this respect is very minimalistic and relates only to the pursuit of the activity of prostitution. And another condition is the condition of age. This means, there basically ends the adjustment of the conditions in relation to the operation of this activity by natural persons. What I would like to stress is that this bill does not make anything forbidden unforbidden. The point is that prostitution is currently not criminalized, this phenomenon is not prohibited, but the problem is that this phenomenon is not regulated by law. This means it is not a law on the legalization of prostitution, but it is a law on the regulation of prostitution. I repeat again - it is not done, this law does not make something forbidden unforbidden. Only accompanying negative effects related to prostitution are criminalized. This law explicitly excludes the operation of prostitution in public areas, which is currently regulated in many cases by the decrees of municipalities or cities. This law, once again, gives municipalities the opportunity to regulate this phenomenon when it gives authorisation in the form of a generally binding decree, when cities should be able to define this operation on their territory. [[15.40 hours]] At the same time, this law regulates relations of a private nature which, of course, can arise between the service provider and the client, where it essentially gives quite significant rights to the persons who operate the activity. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was properly discussed by the representative of the capital city of Prague and the law was supported by a vast majority of representatives of the capital city of Prague across individual political parties. I would like to ask you to move this law into second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u5	Thank you. [[Member Jandak reporting.]] Technically, I can only play in the general debate if you don't have a procedure. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. It is my duty to inform you, in particular, of the Government's opinion on the press, of the 115 proposal of the HMP representative for the publication of the Prostitution Regulation Act. This position is, of course, rejecting the non-governmental proposal. The government summarizes a number of reservations here, in particular that a possible proposal for a similar law must be preceded by a broad political, social and professional debate that there is a legally questionable way of determining the entry into force of the Act, which is proposed at the date when the Czech Republic ceases to be bound by the Convention on the suppression and abolition of human trafficking and the use of prostitution of other persons from 1950. The statement points out a number of substantive and legislative deficiencies, that the regulation of medical fitness is unsystematically fragmented into several provisions, and a number of other minor reservations. I would like to say to you that the view on the possibility of regulation of prostitution divides society, as does the opinion on the death penalty, and it can be expected that we will not agree here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, even within the various parliamentary clubs. Most of you will probably admit that all historical efforts to eliminate prostitution have proved ineffective, but the company has balanced between tolerance, severe punishment and eye closure. Even at the moment, as the representative of the petitioner has told us here, various states in Europe are treating prostitution differently. From the Netherlands, which has not only the law, but also an effective system of the work of the state authorities with the providers of these services, through Sweden, where prostitution is prohibited and its clients are also being punished, to Germany and Austria, where the federal municipal law empowers the Land to adapt more closely and their regulation may differ. In our country, the regulation of prostitution was considered by law in 2005. The main counterargument at that time, as it will probably be today, was the bindingness of the Czech Republic to the Convention on the suppression of human trafficking and the use of prostitution. The proposal to terminate the contract was rejected and the bill was subsequently rejected. I would like to say that the proposed proposal from the capital of Prague, which seems to have the biggest problems with prostitution, is not perfect, and I do not even expect it to be adopted in the final vote. On the other hand, on the other hand, I believe that we should move on from the stage of closing our eyes and moving the problems related to prostitution to the answer to what we really want. Indeed, the government, in its otherwise negative opinion, calls for a broad political, social and professional debate. I believe that it is the debate on parliamentary soil that can make something like this possible. That's why I'm going to propose a release for the next reading. I am prepared on the ground of the petition committee to initiate a large seminar on this subject with the participation of experts, and only then can we decide what to do with the bill. But at this point, I believe that we should proceed with this bill until further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u7	Thank you, ma'am. I am now opening a general debate in which I have Mr Svoboda, Mr Soukup, Mrs Černochová, Mrs Maxová and Mrs Semelová - with Mr Stupčuk's factual comment here. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear members of the government, before this philosophical debate on whether the state should regulate prostitution or not, I believe, unlike my colleagues, that there is a fundamental legal obstacle to this bill, and that is already the international treaty which, according to our valid and effective constitution, has a higher legal force. This means that I find it rather strange and disrespectful to discuss the amendment of the de lege ferenda, which is in contradiction to a valid and effective constitution. I believe that such a bill should primarily be from the workshop of the government, the Ministry of the Interior. I personally participated in the proposal for such a law already in 2003 and for the same reasons, for the reasons of the existence of this abovementioned convention, it was this law that eventually was not adopted into the next approval process. I see the effort as legitimate because it is presented at this time primarily by representatives of the capital city of Prague, which is generally the most affected by this sociopathological phenomenon. However, in my view, first of all, we should have this philosophical debate as to whether we are going to start the deratification process of this convention in force, I believe, since 1956 or not. That should be primary. And it is only by answering the fundamental question of whether we want the state to regulate prostitution as an activity or not, that we should then seriously talk about the follow-up, namely the creation of an appropriate form of law, which, if we choose to regulate such a social phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u9	Thank you for keeping the time limit. And now I'm going to ask Mr. Liberty for a microphone. And I will ask Mrs Černochová, because I see her twice registered in the debate, if she wants to be twice, she keeps her seat, or if it's a mistake. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Okay. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that the Act on the regulation of prostitution - the name is not entirely correct, because it is a regulation in this form - is a law that is enormously interested in Prague. Of course, Prague has the biggest problem in prostitution of all Czech cities and municipalities. It is such a problem that it really disrupts their normal function in some parts of Prague, that the parts of Prague are depopulation and are really turning into an area that is very special from this point of view. On the other hand, it must be stated that prostitution is an activity that, as true authors, is old as mankind itself. And it must also be noted that no system was found to regulate it in some form, reform it, and modify it. At the moment when hard measures and laws are taken, there will be a phenomenon that we know from the United States when alcohol production and distribution were banned. The situation will be exactly the same. I think what was said in that brief remark before me is an essential point. We should be clear about how we will work with this constitutional law and the decision to join the 1956 Convention, which does not actually allow any legal acceptance of prostitution. I think it should be the first step if we want to be successful with the law. [[15.50 hours]] The second thing is that law and regulation are very complex. It contains a number of elements that are pointless to discuss at the moment, but really require, if we want to get further, the work of fundamental and professional teams. To start with what I do best - the question of medical competence is very complex. Very complex in what time factors for individual controls are to be, because what we are historically based on is a medical fitness that has been linked to gonorrhea and syphilis and we are in a phase where we have AIDS and its issues, time of infection, etc. etc. And, of course, what is known of all the laws regulating prostitution, the moment the law says that it does some sort of health check on sex workers, it's as if customer watchfulness ceases. They assume that the state guarantees that they are healthy. That's why I'm very, very emphasised on it, because medical fitness would actually have to be defined exactly what the time factors are, whether to put some more random searches into the meantime. That's very complicated, and that's why I don't think it's possible to accept the law lightly. What Prague perceives is that it needs to get rid of some parts of Prague's prostitution, get rid of the historical part, get rid of Wenceslas Square and the surroundings of what prevents the normal function of the city there. However, I fear that this law in some form can regulate the businesses and facilities that operate it, but it does not regulate prostitution in the apartments at all. On the contrary, it will put it into a form that will actually be far more advantageous and will be united with the fact that, of course, some forms of internet advertising will completely replace anything else. If I were to talk about what would adjust regulation, I can imagine it, like there are gaming rooms in the United States, that it's an area where gambling rooms are in the city and a half meters outside the border of this area you can't even buy a lottery ticket. This is a thing that would help Prague, but I know that it is legally very, very complicated, but I would not resign to considering something like that, because a customer who wants to use prostitution will then find the place and stop bothering the whole other part of the city. Again, I say two things that are essential: health fitness, and the fact that this law pushes prostitution into individual apartments, pushes it outside the law, just as drinking alcohol in the States has been pushed into black booze.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u11	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Soukup's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we have on the table a solution to a problem that is facing not only Prague, but also other cities for over 20 years. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. I live in Cheb. Although the famous European class no longer has a prostitute standing under every lamp and her pimp in the bushes as around 2000, after nine o'clock in the evening, there is a gallery girl who has sex for payment in her portfolio, among other things, to express myself in common terms. Today, the world of prostitutes and pimps involves trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, gambling, street crime, and other sociopathological phenomena. It is a world of confrontation and violence that bothers and sometimes threatens ordinary citizens of cities and municipalities. The law maker on the table is leaning towards the version of the regulation, wants to legalize, regulate and control prostitution to some extent. It's a bit of a good solution and, in my opinion, a little bit of a bad one. Like some of you, I don't feel fit to take over the role of a state pimp, and I resent that the state should take over, for example, a guarantee for the health of prostitutes. On the contrary, I like a few things about the press. For example, moving the age limit for providers or providers of sexual services over 18 years of age. There are sometimes children on the street today that I wouldn't guess even 16. I really like the effort to push sex for payback into registered stone devices and I like the ban on hard-to-regulate street prostitution. That's what I consider the greatest evil. For the solution of prostitution, the phenomenon itself, there are also two extreme solutions: the present way of abolition, simply pretending that there is no problem. That seems pretty alibi to me, and we haven't gotten anywhere in 20 years. Then there's a repressive approach - to ban prostitutes or prostitution altogether. Personally, I'd like that. But can repressive forces of a democratic state enforce such a right? I'm pretty skeptical about that. I am therefore personally inclined to regulate prostitution, but not according to the rules of the proposal. They are too sewn to measure Prague's environment. I recommend that the matter be discussed and included in the proposal the experience of other cities and municipalities facing prostitution. The proposal that we have before us cannot be released right now for another reason. He's been mentioned here before. It is hindered by the Convention on the suppression and abolition of human trafficking and the use of prostitution by others. We signed this as a socialist Czechoslovakia in 1950 with other countries of the Communist bloc and then developing countries, plus France and Norway. By the way, the United States of America signed it, too. So these are advanced democracies that we would like to compare with today and which laws regulate, they have prostitution. However, the international convention has its legal effect, and we can do nothing but denounce it before the law can be discussed. The termination of the international convention and the procedure for dealing with the press under discussion will be the subject of my proposals, which I will put forward in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u13	Mr President, I apologise, but there is no detailed debate at first reading, so there may be two proposals that can be put to the vote after the general debate, either a proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion or a rejection of the proposal. Other proposals are not possible at the moment. [[Member of the Soukup: An accompanying resolution is not possible?]] It's not. Only these two proposals are voteable at first reading. [[Member of the Soukup: All right then, I'm sorry.]] Okay, thank you. I'd like another mike logged in, Mrs. Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor. And I'll ask for peace on the left. I ask my colleagues in the left side of the hall to remain calm! Gentlemen, please be quiet. Thank you. I apologise, Madame, for my colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u14	Thank you. Having found myself on that board twice, some of my party colleagues commented that I would first act as a liberal mayor and then act as a member of the conservative party. Don't worry, it's not like that. I am one person, no Jekyll and Hyde, and my opinions are valid inside the ODS, not only what opinions I have and I will communicate to you, and experience as mayor with this unfortunately negative phenomenon, which is also visible in Prague 2 in our streets. So far, the proposals to address the issue of prostitution in this House have not been lucky. Today it is the third attempt to discuss such a proposal. In 2005, there was a government proposal to regulate prostitution, and last July, a parliamentary bill on the tolerance of the provision of sexual services was submitted. However, none of them was finally discussed. It has always been crucial to address the issue of the Czech Republic's commitment to the Convention on the suppression and abolition of human trafficking, which has been mentioned here. Therefore, the proposal was rejected in 2005, mainly due to the resistance of the then coalition KDU-ČSL and opposition KSČM. That is why the government's bill to regulate prostitution has been withdrawn from negotiations. Our 2013 proposal, which was actually submitted by our former colleague Viktor Paggio, was not enough to discuss because the House dissolved. Even today, in its negative opinion, the government is calling the Convention a major obstacle. I would therefore like to remind you that a number of EU Member States have never joined the Convention, Germany has already been mentioned, but next to Germany it is Austria, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Sweden, Ireland. Outside the European continent it is the USA and Canada, from countries outside the EU it is Switzerland or another continent, Australia. Many of these countries currently have legislation that allows prostitution to be regulated. We are certainly in a completely different political, social and economic situation today than we were more than 60 years ago when the Convention was ratified. The Schengen open space without borders, population migration, globalization of the economy, lifestyle and crime, organised crime, necessarily leads to the conclusion that the Convention is outdated and does not respond to the demands of today. The perception of the moral, social and health problem of prostitution has changed over the last 60 years. As unrealistic, efforts to eliminate it have been abandoned in many countries. Instead, emphasis is placed on its regulation and on the suppression of only the most serious accompanying phenomena such as human trafficking. However, objective conditions have also changed. While traditional pimping, running public houses etc. represented mostly the local crime of individuals or small groups, and today it is one of the most important spheres of the activity of transnational organised crime, also associated with the movement of persons across national borders. In our country, the question of prostitution as a sociopathological phenomenon, which is linked to a number of security, social and health risks, is not yet comprehensively addressed by the legal order. To some extent, only some of the most obvious problems related to it are regulated, especially the criminal code. The generally binding decrees adopted by many cities to exclude prostitution from their public premises do not address the issue of public houses and thus become completely toothless. In Prague 2 when you drive around Karlova Square in the immediate vicinity of the New Town Hall or Resslova Street, the Thinking Street after 22 hours, unfortunately you can meet this phenomenon face-to-face. In my opinion, the proposal has chosen the right way to address the issue of prostitution. In principle, there are three approaches to its solution. Prostitution can be legally ignored and only sanctioned by certain acts accompanying it, such as tax evasion, drug crime, violent crime, or prostitution can be defined by a certain framework within which it is holidayable and can be affected by any deviation from this framework. We can call that regulation. Or we can completely ban prostitution and prosecute in the event of this negotiation. I do not think that this third option would be feasible and that there is only one country around the world in which a total ban on prostitution could be enforced and observed. The bill is based, as has already been said here, on the second approach. As evidenced by experience from abroad, which is referred to in the explanatory report describing e.g. The Austrian, Hungarian or most liberal Dutch model is the most effective solution to the issue of prostitution of its regulation. As mayor of the central city district in our capital, I'm in favour of regulating prostitution. I support this way of solving it and consider it impossible to get rid of it by banning it and closing my eyes to this problem. The petitioner here spoke of the objectives set out in the bill. I agree with them, but unfortunately I am not sure that they can be achieved by the proposal. Firstly, the proposal does not address the withdrawal from the Convention on the suppression of trafficking in human beings, it is a presidential treaty, which must be approved before ratification by both chambers of Parliament, and the same procedural procedure must be followed in the event of withdrawal from this Treaty. The only person who can file a motion for approval to withdraw from the presidential treaty is the government. If the Government's proposal to withdraw from the treaties by both chambers of Parliament is accepted, the Government of the Czech Republic is obliged to send notice in the form of a written communication to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. This statement would be based on Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation. 25 of the Convention took effect one year after the date on which the Secretary-General received this communication. At the same time as the Convention, its final protocol should be terminated. However, I admit that it is partly possible to regulate prostitution now and to comply with the obligations of the Convention. So regulate the prostitutes and prostitutes themselves and leave the crime of pimping. Unfortunately, this solution is not ideal in terms of the functioning of the rule of law, as it leaves pimps in so-called. a gray zone, and I don't think we can afford that. This zone, which is criminal, but is not usually punished on the basis of the criminal policy of the state, is, of course, also a subject for the Interior Minister, who should sit here at such a serious point without a doubt and listen to this debate because it is not only about the new wording of the law, but also about the enforcement of what is already in force. So I would like to ask the members of the ČSSD to do some sort of attempt to get Minister Chovanec, the Home Secretary, to sit in this House and listen to the debate that he should be interested in thanks to the ministry he holds. It would therefore not be possible to openly regulate public houses and their operation, which I consider to be a fundamental mistake. The draft also shows a number of imperfect formulas, which mean interpretation confusion and space for misuse of vague wording. There are discrepancies between the explanatory statement and the proposal. I know that we are at first reading, but even if the proposal passes, I consider it appropriate to draw attention to some of the problematic parts at this time. For example, in § 7 Persons entitled to pursue prostitution. The fourth paragraph states that "prostitution must not be carried out in employment or other similar relationships or through other persons'. The operator who has the premises or owns the premises shall ask the Office for permission to conduct prostitution. Is he gonna get a warrant like that, and he's gonna prostitute himself in it? Here it is directly encouraged that profit be camouflaged, e.g. that it was produced by selling alcohol, cigarettes or by sublet of individual rooms. How would the operator make a profit legally? My second question. The law, for example, has a law. bring greater decision-making powers to the municipalities and give them local responsibility for deciding on a permit for the operation of prostitution comparable to a decision on a permit for gambling. Then I don't understand the following contradiction. Paragraph 25 states that "to conduct prostitution in an area which is owned or entitled to use by a person for the pursuit of prostitution may only be permitted to operate an area issued by the Office'. [[hereinafter referred to as 'the permit to operate the space']] [[16.10 hours]] However, the explanatory memorandum states that housing facilities may only be used on the basis of compliance with the legal conditions referred to in paragraph 1 for the operation of prostitution under the authority of the municipality with extended scope. So, the office or the office with extended authority? I'm asking you as a third question. Furthermore, in order to avoid confusion, the explanatory memorandum states that the reasons for the legislation chosen are the protection of morality, privacy, and peaceful housing. The authorities of the municipality will decide on the basis of the knowledge of local conditions and the specific characteristics of the place where the premises are located, but the proposal in Section 20 excludes such a situation by paragraph 5, which reads - I quote: "The authority which has issued a permit outside its territorial scope for the operation of the premises in the municipality shall inform the municipality.' Therefore, any authority will be able to submit an application to the applicant for an authorisation to operate the installation. This office will have to obtain information to ensure the conditions under § 20 para. 1 and 2. It will therefore have to determine, for its decision, whether or not there are buildings of state bodies, local authorities, representative offices, schools or educational establishments, health facilities, social services facilities, institutions for the performance of institutional education or protective education, facilities for the preventive care of the institution for youth care, playgrounds for children, ecclesiastical buildings, public or private burial sites, crematoriums or national cultural monuments. It shall then determine whether the municipality concerned has a generally binding decree setting out the places in which it is possible to operate a facility for the operation of prostitution, operating time and maximum usable area of the installation in the municipality. The lack of local jurisdiction of the municipal authority with extended scope - it is not addressed virtually anywhere, the local jurisdiction. It can therefore be assumed that applications will be made in the event of failure by trial and repeated at different offices, then at the authorities where they are heard that they are more benevolent than others in the assessment. We certainly do not wish to see these uncertainties in terms of the wording of the bill, according to my maximum scope for corruption, either the appellants or we Members who should vote for this proposal. We've been talking about medical fitness. In agreement with the Government's position, it can be stated that, in the event of a medical opinion on medical fitness, the State formally guarantees something that I hope cannot be guaranteed in any way. It must be assumed that the medical assessment on medical fitness confirms medical fitness precisely and only at a time during which the applicant has been professionally examined, not at any - even relatively short - time thereafter. Given the area covered by the proposal, there could be fatal consequences for sexual service seekers at a time of formally guaranteed medical fitness. I would like to ask who would then be responsible for these possible consequences. I'm not going to talk about other irregularities, interpretational uncertainties, undetermined powers, I don't want to keep you any longer. Now he stands before this House to decide whether he wants to address prostitution or to hide from the solution, for example, for international commitments over the 60-year-old Convention on the suppression and abolition of human trafficking and the use of prostitution by others. [[The Member has silenced and turned to the Members who interrupted her speech.]] I would consider it right that, in line with everything I have said, a government proposal should be submitted to us shortly, which will deal with the Convention and which will not be conceptually and legally confused, as is the case with the Prague Capital. Unfortunately, the quality of this legislative initiative of the capital city of Prague is very bad and cannot be voted for in my own will. I will therefore support the motion for rejection and hope that the government will take my words to heart and present us with a reasonable proposal in the foreseeable future, which will propose a legally correct procedure to deal with the regulation of prostitution in the Czech Republic. Anyway, I would like to thank you, although the proposal is not of good quality, I would like to thank the representatives of the capital city of Prague, who actually submitted this proposal so that this topic would open up, became part of the public debate, because unfortunately we also witnessed in the last parliamentary term when we had a proposal here at the beginning of the parliamentary term to solve the taxi service and then, in fact, the whole three years of Prague was completely legislatively impotent and did not submit any proposals to us, which was perceived very badly in this House as opposed to the Ústí Region and other regions that had their own proposals. So I take this as the first swallow of cooperation between us Prague Members with the capital city of Prague, I am glad and I am certainly prepared as a deputy and as mayor of the Prague 2 district to take on a possible new proposal, although I prefer that the proposal be a government proposal, so in terms of some seminars, discussions, talk about this government proposal, I am ready to participate and I need to initiate it myself. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry I kept you so long. And you can erase my name from the other login. [[shows the hand on the light board]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Radka Maxová has the floor now. Not Jana Černochová, but Mrs Marta Semelová, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that even this problem is not so much about South Bohemia, which is why I am allowed to speak. On this proposal from the capital city of Prague: There is no doubt that prostitution is a controversial social problem causing often contradictory reactions. There are both radical views that include criminalization and the opposite opinions that promote legalization. However, I believe that we all agree that prostitution and the pursuit of prostitution will not simply be eradicated, and it is therefore necessary to regulate it in at least a partial way and to anchor this regulation in the legal order of the Czech Republic. This was attempted by the bill on the regulation of prostitution, which was submitted by the Representation of the capital city of Prague in the House. However, in my view, the proposal tabled does not constitute the right regulation, the right path that we should take in the future. Although, in most cases, I agree with the arguments put forward by the Government in my dissenting opinion, I would like to emphasise at least the primary shortcomings of the proposal. I see the first and very fundamental problem in the fact that the draft law, as proposed by the Representation of the Capital City, has not been consulted on a professional basis. [[Noise in the hall.]] Many criticisms have been raised particularly since non-profit organizations that have been dealing with this issue for many years. An example can be given to the organization Delight without risk, whose activity focuses on the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections and the reduction of the negative social consequences associated with the pursuit of prostitution and which has a few reservations against the law. I also personally consider it an unfortunate provision establishing a special register in which data on persons entitled to prostitution should be recorded. I see the proposed register as very counterproductive, especially for its huge invasion of the privacy of persons who engage in prostitution. I believe that few prostitutes will voluntarily register at the municipal office for the purpose of granting a right to pursue prostitution, since this will de facto eliminate its anonymity, which they live in today and which they guard. The vast majority of them will probably provide services illegally and the desired result will be completely opposite. At the same time, in my view, the creation of a brand new register is unnecessary and also financially costly. It is not necessary to establish a new register for this purpose when the author of the law wishes to take this route of compulsory registration. More economical would be the use of existing registers already in place. [[The noise in the room is getting stronger.]] Another thing is related to the critical loss of anonymity in my opinion, namely compulsory medical examinations. For example, § 16 para. 4 The proposed modifications provide for an obligation to inform the physician both the practical and the specialist that these examinations and medical assessments are needed in order to be able to pursue prostitution. In my opinion, this is a completely unnecessary and useless provision, which the prostitutes will only confirm in order not to sign up for their activities. At the same time, the law of regular inspections of a number of people may give the impression that the State is responsible for the fact that the person who performs prostitution is completely healthy and therefore there is no risk of transmission of sexual diseases. Of course, it is not in our power to guarantee this, especially because some diseases can only be detected after a few weeks, if not months. As a result, clients may be more interested in unprotected contact, as has happened, for example. in Germany, which brings with it a greater risk of infection with STDs and their, albeit unconscious, further spread. [[16.20 hours]] As a contribution to this law, the appellants also note the taxation of the income of the prostitutes. According to the authors of the law, the tax on income paid will then enrich the state budget, but it is not clear who would and in what way determine whether the prostitute has granted all of her income and pays due taxes. Even if financial officials carry out various tax checks, how will the necessary data be traced? There is no obligation to maintain general data on the number of clients or sexual services performed. Finally, I would also like to emphasise that I personally strongly support the creation of legislation which will regulate prostitution, but not in the strict way proposed by the council of the capital. In view of all the above and previous speakers, I therefore place my hope in the Government's bill on the regulation of prostitution, which I hope will be presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u17	Thank you. I have here a factual comment by Mr Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to say that if we create a business that has business rules and pays taxes, there must also be a complaint order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u19	Mrs Marta Semelová, who is the last to be entered in the general debate, is speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u20	Mr President, colleagues. The proposed proposal aims to regulate prostitution, with which everyone would agree. It is difficult to look for tools on which municipalities, as well as law enforcement authorities, can rely. However, the proposed proposal is highly problematic and I do not think that it will lead to the intended intention, as it will not prevent the negative phenomena surrounding it: threats to health, often life, crime, negative views of the streets where these people stand, billions of financial amounts flowing through it. In fact, I also have to say that I find it absurd to raise my hand for the state's income from prostitution. Of course, we could also talk about gambling income. I know that prostitution is difficult to control, difficult to manage, and has grown to considerable proportions in many places. According to NGOs, there are 12 to 14,000 prostitutes in the Czech Republic. There are prostitutes here called. seasonal, casual, permanent, run in street clubs, which are held in the capital city of Prague according to the information of the city police at a historical minimum, in private apartments, there will not be police for change, there are also various escort services. The reasons and reasons why he or she conducts this activity are also significantly different. In this way, some women try to deal with a bad financial situation, their own and their own families, where they do not have a job or their income is not enough for basic needs of life. A state is failing here to provide citizens with work and conditions for a decent life. Furthermore, there is a group of those who are forced to prostitute against their will and are afraid to respond. Others choose this way of living, making a profit, or what they call it, voluntarily. However, the bill does not only affect these groups of people, but also other citizens who have consequences. As I have already said, the law has a number of shortcomings and I doubt it could change the situation. After all, this is confirmed by experience from abroad, where they have taken similar measures, but only a small percentage has been affected. In Holland, for example, only about 15 percent of prostitutes have moved into the legal system. An extensive survey of Axel Dreher from the University of Heidelberg on this subject shows that where prostitution is legal, trafficking in people is more common than elsewhere. There is also a frequent circumvention of the law by offering jobs that are actually a front for hidden prostitution, e.g. Cleaning places in different clubs, behind which there is a hidden prostitution. The one in privates is also inconvenient. Now for some specific comments. As far as the age limit is concerned, I cannot agree with the age limit since it could be granted the right to pursue prostitution, which is set here for 18 years. This line is, in my opinion, low. Young people, not only are girls, are easily influenced at this age, easily manipulated, society should protect them, support them in preparing for future occupations, respectively. to acquire work habits. If, at this age, they get into the hands of prostitutes or brothels, it is the final station from which they find it very difficult to get out. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Two. The distance given to issuing a permit to operate 150 metres from schools and school facilities, institutions for youth care, playgrounds for children, national cultural monuments, health facilities, state authorities and other places is, in my opinion, a rather ridiculous distance. Similarly, the solution to the situation related to non-compliance with a contract between a person entitled to perform prostitution and a customer through repayment of the paid remuneration or part thereof. I can't imagine who and how will evaluate the service provided and its quality and handle complaints. I have doubts as to the value of health certificates. One day the card is issued, the next day -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u21	I am very sorry, colleague, but please, especially colleagues on the right of me. I tried to communicate nonverbally at first, but it didn't go anywhere, so I had to approach this alternative. I'm sorry and I'm begging for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u22	Thank you. One day the card is issued, the next day the health status of the service provider may be completely different. End of závěr. Prostitution regulation would certainly be necessary. This activity is here and it makes no sense to close your eyes to it, but not by a mixture of laws and laws that do not regulate, but legalize prostitution as a common trade, virtually. business under special law. With a draft of mine. expressed his opposition to the Czech Union of Women, which, in this sense, sent us as Members his call for rejection some time ago. This bill records to those who use others for literally sexual exploitation, after approval, in addition with the support of the state, the municipalities to which prostitution would result. I find this unacceptable, as well as the fact that the proposal is contrary to the international Convention on the suppression and abolition of human trafficking and the use of prostitution by others. Therefore, I will not personally support the adoption of this law and support the motion to reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u23	Thank you. I'm going to ask if anyone else is applying to the general debate, respectively. to the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. I will just ask the rapporteur if she has noted the motion for rejection. Because I have been taking over the meeting and I have no comment here that a motion to dismiss has been made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u24	Mr President, two speakers have said that they will support a motion for a rejection which, of course, has not fallen, so the motion for a rejection has not been tabled at this time. Just pointing out that I will propose, in agreement with the petitioner, an extension of the deadline for the 30 days hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-014-043.u25	It will not be that simple, because I have ended the debate. And it didn't come up in the debate either, so either someone in the government has to open the debate or... All right. So I have closed the debate. Let me ask you about the final words. Not interested, okay. Since the motion for rejection has not been made, we will consider the proposal for the commandment. I have here a motion from the Organizing Committee on the Commandment to discuss the petition committee. I'll ask if anyone else is suggesting another committee. It's not like that. So we're going to vote. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees that this law should be ordered to the Committee of Petition, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 122, registered is 173, for 93, versus 35. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have ordered this motion to discuss the petition committee. So now I'm done with point 43. Let's continue with the point.
