ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u1	2. Proposal of Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný Tejc and others to issue a law amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other employees in administrative offices (service law) /German press 71/ - third reading I would like to inform you that the amendments are in the Houses of the Press 71/12. I'm gonna ask you to calm down. I will wait a little longer for the level of noise in the hall to be reduced enough to understand each other, and I will open the debate, however much Mr Klánek's application shines on the board, so I must inform him that colleagues Okamura and Fiala have previously volunteered. That is, the order of the speakers will be that a colleague of Okamura will perform, then a Member of the Fiala, then... President Kalousek wants to exercise priority rights? [[Yes.]] That way he will be as number three and as number four so far, unless there are other preferential rights, Mr Klán. Mr Birke votes with replacement card number 6. Therefore, there is nothing to prevent us from starting the debate. Mr Okamura is the first to sign up and Mr Fiala will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It's hard to get to the service law -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u3	Yes, I've asked for peace twice, so I'm gonna do it three times, and I'd hate to interrupt the meeting right after we started it. We could break a record again. So please keep your voice down, and if you want to exchange opinions for the time you haven't seen each other, and you need to say it, so please, outside this meeting room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to say anything new about service law. Any of our protests and proposals for depoliticizing the state administration are essentially futile and unnecessary. The ČSSD Coalition, YES movement, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and ODS have a clear majority in the House. The only real and basically only opposition we have now is to name out loud what we are witnessing. I mean, when it comes to business, it doesn't matter whether it's left or right, but the good guys can always make a deal. In this case, boys from ČSSD, YES, KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09. The Dawn Movement continues to insist that it is not acceptable for politicians to decide on the occupation of government posts, from the highest level of political representatives to ordinary employees. That's how it's built in this service law. We insist that there must be a guarantee of expertise and stability in the first place. Before the President's speech last week, my colleague from Dawn Radim Fiala tabled an amendment to abolish the political deputy that we will be voting on today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u5	I am truly sorry to Mr Okamur, but if the situation does not improve, I will start calling you by name and you will be forever immortalized in the shadow record as those who disrupt the course of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We reject this law, which allows the state authorities to appoint political representatives, political secretaries and other political representatives and political henchmen. State administration must not tailor contracts to companies related to political parties, employ political exponents at the expense of experts or, for example, discriminate against political opponents. Experienced matadors in politics and the world of business know very well how money is made in politics. The State Department, like the Ministry of Defense, will come up with a contract, like parachutes for soldiers, because one of the people has a nephew who sews paraglidings at home, and the nephew starts a company right away, and it gets a $100 million contract without employees and any history. And, of course, he quickly gets a stitch in Bystré near Polička, which, by the way, didn't sew parachutes in life, and now he's sewing parachutes from morning to evening. And money just pours. What if these new military parachutes are so dangerous that soldiers aren't allowed to jump with them, and Private Roman Prynych even killed himself because of the defect? What about the fact that the Chief of Staff Pavel Štefka says - I quote: "These parachutes are most suitable for bed linen. " And of course he doesn't have hundreds of millions, the folk nephew, his name is Jirka Andrlík, but much of it goes somewhere else. Stealing must be able to, and this art includes bending laws to suit thieves to the utmost. And in this regard, it doesn't matter which side of who kicks, because the goal is the same: to rip it out of the common register as much as possible. Therefore, not only can state administration be depolized under the current political system, but none of the politicians of this coalition ČSSD, ANO, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and ODS will agree to the legalization of the personal material and criminal liability of top politicians, which we saw here in the House in April when voting on the draft Dawn. Nor will they accept the introduction of impunity for perpetrators who will convict their partners of serious crimes. She could thin out the political scene for us. First of all, it would not be for expensive election campaigns and, of course, some parties or backstage lobbyists would again end up behind bars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u7	Another enrollment is the chairman of the Úsvit Club, Mr. Fiala. President Kalousek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear Prime Minister, let me briefly introduce you to the position of the Dawn Movement on the Service Law, but not only that, and to try to make a bit of an argument about it, so that you can understand our positions, so that you can understand why we have leaned towards the things that we have been saying for so long, to the things that we believe are right. Yesterday, as most of you have emailed, I received an opinion from the State Reconstruction and Transparency International on the current form of the Service Act promoted by the government, ODS, TOP 09. Let me quote from this opinion: From the defined partial requirements for quality law for Czech state administration, a third, i.e. 34 percent of parameters, are met. A whole range of areas is solved by the norm inadequately, poorly, or their solution remains completely neglected. From a specific list of comments from these non-profit organizations, which many government politicians in the recent House of Elections were delighted to refer to, I am struck by this comment - again quote: Unlike the previous version, we are witnessing a completely alarming mistransparation of tenders, which brings the opportunity to cancel the tender at any time when the lead winning candidate does not seem appropriate. The possibilities of politicians to actively influence the operation of the entire state apparatus, not by the necessary choice of agenda, but by concrete interventions in the autonomous functioning of bureaucracy, also appear to be very risky. Service regulations will be implemented by government regulation, i.e. politically. Members of selection committees are also nominated politically to a large extent. And here we come to the main and eye-beating error, which our fellow Members from other MPs, as Members of the Dawn, are constantly pointing out. I'm talking about political deputies. Both the Úsvit movement and the specialised non-profit organization, and even the President of the Republic Miloš Zeman say: Dear Members, do not commit this categorical error, let us together avoid the constitutional action of the President to which the Dawn in this case would be called. political representatives had to be joined. Let us not allow the long-awaited service law to create lucratively paid official positions that will not fall under this law and on which each party apparatus will be able to install its retired political matador. If you have decided to support the current imperfect version of the Service Act, if you take political responsibility before your voters and vote in favour, then at least support my amendment, which cuts political representatives from the wording of this Act. Do not let such paragraphs pass smoothly on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies, over which every man of common sense will have to shake his head misunderstood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u9	That was Mr. Fiala. Now there is a request from President Kalousek. He's already here, so he has the floor. The President of ODS Fiala will prepare himself, who has also exercised the right of priority and has postponed Mr Klán, who certainly understands this. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Allow me to brief you as briefly as possible with the opinion of the TOP 09 MEP and to try to convince you whether you would consider at least some of the amendments that were made at second reading. Firstly, I want to confirm that a political agreement has been respected, which we consider to be extremely important and beneficial in view of further developments in the administration, which may bring stability and rules that have not been clear there until now, if there has been one. Secondly, I would like to comment on Mr Radim Fiala's amendment, which he proposes to delete. Political Deputys. I'm just pointing out that this term doesn't know the law, but it's been put into practice and let's call it that. We, too, have demanded the absence of political representatives. It was even our written request, and in negotiations with the government coalition, after several negotiations, we had no choice but to accept the rather firm position of the coalition of the Babiš, Bělobrádek and Sobotka parties, who simply insisted on maintaining political representatives. I think it is necessary to know very clearly - here was the clear position of the parties of Babiš, Bělobrádek and Sobotka, who could not imagine this law without political representatives. And because every political agreement requires some compromise, there has been a compromise and we have retreated on this point. We are prepared to comply with this agreement with the government coalition, but we assume that the government coalition will be united in its opinion. If the coalition were not united in its opinion, then we would see this as a failure to comply with the agreement and we would like to return to our original opinion and we would be happy to support Mr Fiala's proposal, because that is what we think too. But here we respect the agreement and the promise that we made to the parties of the Lords of Babiš, Bělobrádek and Sobotka. Furthermore, I would like to ask you to consider the amendments to Mr Daniel Korte's E1 and Mr E2. Twenty-five years after November 1989 - we will celebrate this anniversary this year - we do not think that it would mean any problem for the government if it stopped being recognised as an adequate education SNB College as a recognised university education. The Faculty of the SNB University has the worst possible reputation as a hatchet of future members of the repressive communist regime. If 25 years after November 1989 we recognise that this is an adequate education for the state administration of the democratic state, I think we will laugh at the legacy of the November revolution, whose 25th anniversary we will celebrate. Mr Korte's second amendment is more pragmatic and perhaps more understandable for someone. But here again, I ask you to consider the importance of abolishing members of the Security Corps for the duration of their service. Please note that serving a servant of the security corps is of no other importance than balancing the disability when starting a second career, for which the member is no longer physically equipped. It's quite logical. A firefighter, a professional soldier, a member of the URNA unit, who must also be physically equipped for the performance of his profession, sometime between the 40th and 50th years of his profession, which until that time he devoted for twenty, twenty-five years, must leave and begin somewhere from scratch, while his peers continuously built a position and career in his civilian life, and he is logically in handicap. The waitress is supposed to settle the handicap. However, if, in the course of his job in the security forces, he obtained the qualification that he would win the tender and become a civil servant, he would perform a qualified job the same as his colleagues and his income from the state would at that time be 25, 30,000, 20,000 higher than his colleagues, who are doing the same job, it is extremely demotivating at the relevant workplace and denies the original importance of the pension, which is intended to compensate the handicap. [[10.20 hours]] I beg you, there is no reason for a former member of the Security Corps who has obtained such qualifications as to be able to perform a service in the state administration under this law, which we will approve, to receive a pension to compensate for the disability that he is required to take under the meaning of the law under which he is serving. He'll take two receipts from the state for the same job. It doesn't make any sense. I also ask you very much to consider the amendments tabled by Mr Plíšek concerning the rotations of both the State secretaries and the rotation of the Deputy Ministers for the management of the section, the Heads of the Union and the Heads of the departments in the relevant activities listed in the amendment. That is not something we would have made up or what would have occurred to Mr Plíšek. This is a proven model from a number of service laws of the countries of the European Union and, in particular, it is a good model in the service of officials of the European Commission. The European Commission uses a compulsory rotation system for its officials and declares it as one of the most effective anti-corruption instruments, because compulsory rotation after four or five years is, of course, a very effective, natural and general system tool against creating clientelistic links to certain neuralgic places of government authorities. I ask the members of the government coalition to consider whether, at the moment when they are verbally fighting corruption with all their strength - we are waiting for real action so far, but the verbal struggle is going very hard - whether they would also like to support this verbal struggle with real action and support this anti-corruption instrument, which the European Commission itself highly recommends as an anti-corruption instrument and uses it itself. Finally, allow me to intercede on behalf of TOP 09 for Mrs Věra Kovářová's amendments, namely the extension of the exemption from the scope of the law to the President of the SÚJB. The President of the SÚJB is in a completely different position from the ordinary civil servant, and I think there have been long discussions. The reputation of the Czech SÚJB is that we would be very afraid to endanger it with this regulation and expect a system of trial-mistakes whether it will or will not have an impact on quality. Let us leave the quality of the SUJB in the current exceptionally high and internationally recognised position and do not experiment with its regulation, which is particularly inappropriate for the President of the SUJB as well as for the President of the Statistical Office. Finally, Mrs Kovářová's amendment to the situation where there will be an increase in tariffs and there will be no means of pay, which is a situation which may take place, a reduction in the personal surcharge already granted. This is a mechanism that assumes that we will give way to trade unions and raise tariffs, and because we do not have money, we will collect personal bonuses and we will go the way not to support exceptional performances, but we will go the way of nivelization, demotivating equality. I even leave aside that there are judges of the Constitutional Court who consider the removal of the already granted personal supplement to be unconstitutional, but that is not the main argument. The main argument is that we want performance and efficiency in the state administration and to address the situation of a lack of funds by adding to those less efficient and taking away the more efficient is the way back, not forward. Therefore, I ask you very much to consider all these amendments, but I am responsible for all of us that no matter how the vote on these and other amendments goes, which were beyond the agreement, we are prepared to actively support this bill while respecting the political agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u11	Before I give the floor to President Fial, I have a point of fact from Mr Tejc, who will have his two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, in two minutes I will not be able to comment on the entire service bill and on the comprehensive change that has been prepared, but let me respond to my previous speaker's words that perhaps by tariffing and by narrowing the scope for setting the rewards that have been given to individual leaders, there will be some deterioration in the government's administration that people will work less, because there will be some sort of equality here. On the contrary, I think that this change is necessary after what we have experienced in recent years, when a number of people have had above average high pay per salary, but their performance certainly does not correspond to that. I don't want to go into a specific debate about how it was at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, what kind of rewards the Deputys like Mr. Šiška had, but certainly, if we have to approach this debate, I'm going to have to dust off the numbers. I think that binding ourselves into certain rules, where subjective evaluation, which is definitely not always fair, needs to be regulated by law, which does not mean that it cannot happen that people should not be entitled to a reward. They should be, but there must be no such favor as it was in the past, which is why I welcome the change in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u13	Thank you. Another factual point by President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u14	I don't want to extend it, just very briefly. Colleague Tejc forgot to add that the modification still exists. If she didn't exist, I might have accepted his words. The law already states a clear limit to an extraordinary component which must not be exceeded. Those are the rules. But what you do not seem to want to accept by not supporting Mrs Kovářová's proposal is that, if necessary, you are prepared to proceed to even greater egalitarianism, and even the law imposes it than the 25 per cent maximum component rules. That's the way back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u15	Yes, and I do not see any other factual evidence, so the Member and Chairman of the ODS have the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly justify the amendments of the Civil Democratic Party so that you can have all the information and decide, if necessary, to support some of our proposals. We have tabled two amendments that contain more parts. I assume that, especially in the case of my amendment, there will be a separate vote on individual components. The amendment tabled by me contains some more detailed improvements, such as the compulsory presence of trade unions in the administrative exam or the exemption for valid administrative training at the State Institute of International Relations in Moscow. It then contains matters which, in terms of the long-term impact of the law, are much more substantial, and this is, on the one hand, a proportional reduction in the level of disproportionately high sales on termination of the service for an indefinite period, which are amendments to Section 7 (2) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (b), (c), (d) where we propose, in essence, to reduce by half the monthly salary multiples to which the outgoing official is entitled. [[10.30 hours]] I'm just going to repeat what I've said before, so you'll have a good idea. You get into the state service after college, you work here for nine years, you go away at some 33-34 years, you get a year's worth of stuff and you get a full annual salary. This is a huge, unusual advantage in the labour market, which is not enjoyed by anyone in public institutions or in the private sector. It is really worth considering whether we should give such an advantage to the outgoing officials. Then the proposal contains the possibility that civil servants' education could be provided by universities, and since there was some confusion, I will explain the nature of the proposal. The point is that the Ministry of the Interior - this is a matter of course - would have to grant the university the appropriate accreditation, and only on the basis of this accreditation could such an education be provided. It is not limited to public universities, it would also apply to private universities. The fact that the Ministry of the Interior grants this is not limited to the only state school that falls under the Ministry of the Interior, in a sense, the Police Academy, but it is really open to all universities that would receive such accreditation. And the last and most important thing, and that is what we should all care most about, what my amendment contains, is the extension of the possibility or extension of those people who can work in the administration. We propose that in the first round - and this is important, because when it is in the second and third round, it will never really happen - so that people from public institutions, universities and the private sector, who, of course, have adequate education and have passed the corresponding administrative exam before, will be able to apply for the first round. So many basic explanations for the amendments tabled under my name. The Civil Democratic Party has yet tabled an amendment by Mr Marek Benda, who, to put it plainly, removes some discrimination from the point of view of accounting for the practice that exists there for the employees of the municipal authorities. In order to avoid this discrimination, to ensure greater penetration there, we propose a certain extension, and this extension also applies to members of the councils of the respective municipalities and regions, which we believe also have sufficient practice. Ladies and gentlemen, so many brief explanations of the various amendments tabled by the citizens' Democrats. I believe that at least some of you will join our amendments, because they are undoubtedly sensible amendments and improving this law. At the end of my speech, however, I would like to say again, even after today's meeting of all the stakeholders, that the citizens' democrats, regardless of how you vote on our amendments, will keep their word and support the version of the service law that corresponds to the agreement between us and the parties to the government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u17	Thank you. Mr Klán is still being pushed away, so at least he is making technical remarks. Please, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, allow me to respond by your means to Mr Fiala on all universities. Am I supposed to understand that, even for private colleges? Because if we open it up to private schools, it'll mean a lot of business for them. I think the Civil Democratic Party is still promoting the neoliberal theory of the so-called Washington Consensus, which means even greater liberalisation of the state administration. It really feels like it. The same first rounds and penetration from the private sphere. That's where I think it's rich enough to be in the other rounds. I don't know why you keep giving the first rounds out of the private sphere, but I understand the Civil Democratic Party that it's just her theory. That's how they really do it, so they're pushing it. But in that case, we will not support these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u19	Yes. A point of fact, Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what theory the MP is talking about, but that is not important at all. Our proposals - and I can guarantee this through Mr President - do not follow any theories, but are normally governed by common sense and by the legislation of this country. To explain it quite simply: If we conclude selection procedures only for officials in the first round, we are making it worse for ourselves to perform the state administration. And I really don't see the difference between an auditor who works at a public institution, an auditor who works at a private firm, and an auditor who works at a public office. Why not give these people a chance if they want to improve our government? And the second point is essential. Why should we distinguish, and are we doing this somewhere, between graduates, or the quality of public and private universities? We have one special thing that does not have all the higher education systems, and this is that a university in the Czech Republic cannot award degrees and higher education is not accepted and cannot actually operate unless it has an accreditation which the Ministry of Education grants on the basis of recommendations of an independent accreditation committee. At a time when such accreditation exists and is held by both public and private universities, there is no reason why universities should not be understood as a whole. There's something else going on here. The point is that the Ministry of the Interior will grant accreditation to a school that will meet the requirements of the Ministry of the Interior for the education of people in the state sphere, and the Ministry of the Interior will decide for itself which school is quality or not. But I really refuse, and that's the ideal attitude, the distribution of universities into public and private. Colleges are good and bad and the state has enough tools to control quality and does not allow those who are bad to operate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u21	I don't register any more factual remarks. The Minister of Finance is another registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u22	Mr President, colleagues, I had no intention of speaking, even two members of our parliamentary club did not advise me to perform. I guess they're worried I'm gonna say something inappropriate here. However, Mr. Okamura's performance and Mr. Kalousek will not allow me to perform. I'd like to repeat some of the facts. We were the Civil Service Act - the first proposal was in 2002 and it was a condition of accession to the European Union. I think that mainly because of our movement and perhaps mine for someone controversial, the law is at the stage where it is, because you will probably remember that this law was called our media in November, December and January thanks to the proposal by President lex Babiš. I must fundamentally reject Mr Okamura's claim that our movement, which is still a citizens' movement and is not a classic political party, has an interest in keeping some customs from the past. I, from the beginning, was opposed to the political deputies in the formation of a coalition government. I have defended myself and can declare that the Ministry of Finance is today a model example of depoliticizing the state administration. I've taken with my permission one assistant from my firm who's not a member of our movement, I've married one law graduate, former head of Všehrd, one of the best alumni I've had in years who's been helping me. [[10.40 hours]] And the only political deputy I accepted for the third attempt is the political deputy Mr Pros for ČSSD, a former banker, and he worked at the Société Générale in Paris, so he's an expert. There's no one else there. On the contrary, when I came to the ministry, we switched all those political nominees because they were there mainly because of their interests. Especially for environmental contracts. It's a model example. We're doing half-price ecology today, and we usually do half-price. So I fundamentally reject, and I don't understand the debate at all, the political deputy. We've all read it, there's even a headline in Law that I refuse. Because the word "political" isn't there, there's a deputy member of the government. I said, I don't care what it's called. Supposedly because of the Constitution, it has to be a deputy, but I take it as an assistant, and I think the debate really -- even the president, I think it's wrong that it's actually a symbol of not wanting to depolitize it. I even suggested it on the coalition, coalition partners rejected it, so of course I accept it. We had a big problem with the leak. Mr. Fiala was just talking about it. I will never forget a debate within the coalition when I expressed my opinion on why, for example, a deputy in charge of banks and where Mr Pros is, a banker could not come into practice. Why are we having trouble with the leak? I've been told people steal from business. Mr Šiška, Deputy TOP 09, was mentioned. He was arrested at the Ministry. Well, I was surprised. I don't think that in the state administration it should be that someone is going to do time, and then actually, because of why the government couldn't be open to people who work and are in a different world than the government. Unfortunately, the government is not attractive to these people, because the Deputy Minister takes 90 grand, so that's the level of middle management salaries in better companies. I don't really understand, and we had a problem with that and we discussed it. I repeat once again that I reject Mr Okamura's claim that our movement and that, therefore, we also want political colleagues there. I'm not the chair of the movement, I don't really fight for my position as part of the movement, and I don't need to feed my fellow party, and when you look at all our deputies, they usually have nothing to do with our movement. I have to agree on rotations because even multinational companies have a rule that the head of purchase needs to be replaced after three years, because, of course, corruption is not only in government, but also in private, and the buyer, when he buys big things, so of course the potential is there, but the question is, what is to rotate and really should then rotate only the selected positions, but I am expressing myself lately. I didn't really watch it, the law talks, so I think it's a pretty good idea. Absolutely. Especially our big problem is the tens of billions we give for IT, and those I.T. guys could rotate without a problem, for example. But the best cure is that we wanted to make a central purchase. But it's hard, but I'm sure we want to make it transparent. And I repeat again for our movement, in a fundamental way I reject that we have an interest in actually operating in the administration of some politicians. I'm gonna piss off political commentators again, but I don't care. Our movement was created and we are mainly here for citizens, and therefore I look at it pragmatically, and first of all I do not say that I de facto supported both Mr Fiala and Mr Kalousek in part here, and I take it pragmatically, I do not take it politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u23	The Minister of Finance's appearance raised three factual points. The first will be President Stanjura, then President Kalousek and then Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek. All three of them in two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u24	Thank you. I don't think I'm gonna need two minutes. I am pleased that we agree with the Minister of Finance that the public administration should be open. These are our proposals for this, and I think we have a similar view of it, if not the same, and we can express it in the vote and help the successful people to be willing and have a chance to get to the top positions in the state administration at all. I just want to remind you that we have over 7,100 heads of department and 1,800 heads of department, that's 9,000 positions, and if we don't open them in the first round, then people in private business, from municipalities, the regions will not be motivated to go there as ordinary reporters and wait for years to become potential candidates for the management function. I'd like a few words with the Deputys. It's called political deputy. The political deputy is correct. We think the Minister has the right to bring in the Deputys, but he's supposed to bring in the Deputys who can handle the agenda and who'll run something at the Ministry. The deputy, as defined, is not a political deputy. He is a deputy who will have nothing to do except follow his minister and report if necessary. After all, as in the past governments, there are political representatives today, and that's a good thing. And then let's just have fun if the deputy who's politically nominated can handle the agenda or can't handle it. And it's perfectly okay that he's in charge of a section at a particular ministry. And as to whether or not the movement or a party has political representatives, I was involved in political negotiations at the Ministry of the Interior to the Service Act, where each party is to send at least one of its politicians, and the representative and under the ANO movement was the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Wagenknecht. I do not question this, but typically the political deputy in the good sense that he directs a piece of the Ministry of Finance. I think it's a good thing and there's no point in covering things up. We're criticizing that there's supposed to be deputys who won't be in charge but nothing at all at the Ministry. That's the problem. [[Attention on time.]] Just one last sentence. At this point, we retreated. We will not change the agreement and we will not challenge it, we just wanted to clearly formulate our position on the Deputys, which I think is unfortunately political, they should be deputies without a job.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u25	Yes. Another de facto President Kalousek, then Vice-President Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u26	I'm sorry, but I really can't be unresponsive. President Babiš here said that, above all, thanks to him, we will pass the service law, which we called Lex Babiš here in January at an emergency meeting. Yes, in January, at an emergency meeting, the House disgracefully pushed into second reading a text that has absolutely nothing to do with this text that we will be voting on today. Not even a name. You have only spoken here the text we called Lex Babiš, and we will always call it that, and you have voted it so that you can ignore the legal order of the Czech Republic in the field of the rendering law. To the eternal shame of government, which should be the first to honor the laws of the Czech Republic, whether they agree with them or not. In the same spirit of the argument, another part of the speech was made by Prime Minister Babiš. Yes, rotation is a very good idea. It's an anti-corruption tool. I would support it, but we will vote against it. Yes, political deputy, I never wanted that, and I don't have it at all. Of course he does, just like every minister has, because none of them have ever made any objective choice. All have been appointed politically, regardless of whether they have or do not have expertise. But it's just a subjective decision, and it's only political, which is why they're political. I don't want political deputies, but we won't vote to eliminate them. I don't want them, but we'll be in favour of them staying. I don't want to discuss the rest of the performance, but it's in the same spirit. I'm convinced it's like this, but we're going to vote differently because I'm a pragmatist. I think, colleagues, that we should be able to distinguish between the concept of pragmatism and insolent cynicism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u27	First of all, Prime Minister Bělobrádek has the floor, and the Minister of Finance will also be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u28	Mr President, colleagues, I would just like to remind you that some of the things that Minister Babiš has said are also provided by Ondřej Závodský, Deputy at the Ministry of Finance, recommended by KDU-ČSL, but I think he is highly skilled. Even KDU-ČSL is here for citizens, it is a party of citizens, all our members are citizens, our voters are citizens, so we are here for citizens. I would like to say that central purchases are certainly a good thing, and I recommend that the Ministry of Finance take a look at how in some of our municipalities and even the regions proceed within central purchases. It works, especially for energy and some other services such as mobile operators. I would also like to say that, in our view, undoubtedly, what is called political representatives, which, of course, does not exist, it is necessary that the minister also has someone who is willing and able to represent him. I'd just recommend we stick to the deal. I think if we make a deal, at least we're used to high fives on the mountains, and then it's true, not constantly changing our deals. So let's stick to the deal, let's not make up something that's already been agreed, break again, and let's vote, let's decide by vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point by Mr Okamura, then by Mr Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to follow up on this debate. So I see that there are a whole series of political parties against the political vice-president, against having appointed positions without a selection procedure. So let me remind you that there is an amendment to the Dawn movement, which repeals this paragraph, that repeals the so-called political deputy, as President Zeman also called it. So please support him. Those who said they didn't agree with it, or that they didn't want such deputies, so let's not explain it here, let's not explain why they did or didn't, support the motion of the Dawn movement. He's the only one on the table that's canceling it, and you're going to say that you mean your words and that they're not words, they're actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u31	So far, Mr Klán's final factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd react here again to those political deputies. Let us remember that at present, all those who are in those ministries are political Deputys. That's where everybody's political at the moment. This law is supposed to change that in a certain way, so the section heads won't be political. But there will be deputy government. We were trying to make sure it wasn't them deputies without a job, when there was already a minister without a job - and although of course he has a job - so the deputy without a job. I have tried to put in that amendment that it must always be present at committee or committee meetings unless the Minister's personal participation is required, which I think is a simple adjustment, and it will have certain powers as well. But he'll have to, all the time. So, not that he's just gonna do whatever he wants, go wherever he wants, whatever he wants. That the minister was going to do his homework. But if it's not written in the law, what kind of agenda it's gonna have, it's gonna lead to different interpretations. That, ladies and gentlemen, once again does not bode well. As for the vote on these political representatives, we will, of course, support the amendment of the Úsvit movement, just because at today's meeting - it was said that there were representatives of all parties - which took place today at quarter to ten, so we - the KSČM club, but not even the Úsvit movement - did not receive an invitation to this last meeting on the amendments that were tabled. That, for this reason alone, we will not simply support this law, because if it is to deal with all parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, then simply with everyone, and not that if someone agrees with a quasi-negotiation or pseudo-negotiation only with a part of the opposition, then you cannot expect anything other than that we will vote the way we will vote. That's our point of view in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u33	Yes. You have exhausted your time, but since now is the moment when the proper applications have taken place, you can stay and present your original contribution, Mr Member, without the time limit in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u34	So, once again, good day, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the opinion of the KSČM MEP on the Service Act, which we will be voting here today at the third, i.e. final reading. I have to sigh here because we've been discussing this service bill since January of this year and we're already in September. Instead, there were various thugs who wanted the Directorate-General and who didn't want it, then the coalition stepped on its neck, the right-wing opposition did it with its tactics found in the Rules of Procedure, and pushed its way. That's an undeniable fact. However, in our view, this form of service law will not ensure the depoliticisation of the state administration. I've already made one argument here, and they're political Deputys. If they are in the law, even though they were counted by the 2002 Law, it was also written there, of course, because the inspiration really lay in Germany, where they also have political representatives and they have two. So I tabled an amendment that for two, one is enough. One is enough, because if there's two of them, I'll think of them as three ministers, so then the minister who runs the ministry will be for what? So let's ask what he's gonna do with the minister, if there's two of his deputies and a pretty decent payoff. That's this part. With regard to the second part, the depoliticisation of the state administration under this law will not take place in that section where the so-called exemption from the presumption of education is. There is such a certain exception where a worker who has long proven himself in a given position can be admitted to a given post without satisfying his education for the given position to be there. It says he's proven himself in the long run. What it is, it's proven that word for a long time. I still don't understand. It's long-term - I've learned recently - that it means 5+, so 5 years plus. If that's the case, of course, that won't be a problem. But we're leaning towards making it taxatically stated in this law. If it's not there, the word can be interpreted as it pleases in the long term, it can always be interpreted as it pleases. It's just a so-called rubber word, as we call it, a rubber word, and it's a neutral time stamp. It's like in a minute. Everyone can imagine what they want under that moment. As far as the rotation of civil servants is concerned, we do not have a problem with that, but there is some difficulty with the so-called state secretaries, i.e. the deputy section heads, rotating. That would be a bit of a problem if they were rotating. I can't imagine anyone rotating from defense to agriculture without understanding it. When the law was discussed here twice at second reading, once in due course, the second time when it returned to second reading, I said here that the Institute of the General Directorate of State Service works in other countries of Europe. The Law of 2002 as well as the law which was originally built here from the workshop of Minister Dienstbier, including the service law of the workshop of Jiří Rusnok, envisaged the introduction of the General Directorate of State Service. The General Directorate of State Services, as I have said here many times, has it in the UK, they have it in France, they have it in Poland, the Netherlands, Belgium and other countries of Europe, and it normally works classically. But we have once again created a hybrid here, which will once again mean even greater politicalization of the state administration than it has been until now. Just because some people are preserved there is the exception to the assumption of education. That's where the current friends, either the current coalition, or the last one, who had her buddies installed at the ministries. That's how it really is, that's how a lot of people feel about it. Historically, it's just that here since 2002, we have an approved service law, but it's not effective, and when we ask ourselves why it's not effective, it's precisely because government coalitions, government leaders, couldn't put their friends on the central authorities. This has been happening since 1990. All those who have ruled here since 1990, ODS, social democracy, it doesn't matter, everyone didn't like this instrument of dysfunction of the Service Act. [[Is that okay?]] Just 'cause they could put in their buddies. They always put them there. [[11.00 hours]] I will certainly now move on to the comments on the amendments tabled. I would like to draw attention here to one amendment tabled here by Mr Zavadil. He tabled an amendment according to which new administrative offices should be created. This would mean, if the paragraph - I think it is a paragraph to tell you exactly, it is Section 3, when it says that the administrative office for the purposes of this law is the Ministry and another administrative office, if it is established by law and is expressly designated by law as an administrative office or body of state administration. Paragraph 2: Another institution for the purposes of this Act is an institution governed by another law if it carries out an activity under Section 5. Section 5 is called. field of service. So service to the state. These fields of service include audit or independent control. And if this paragraph were passed and approved here, it would mean that this law will also apply to Supreme Audit Office, Grant Agency of the Czech Republic or Press Agency of the Czech Republic, but also many others. I would like to point out that if this is approved, then you must not be surprised that there will be any further confusion. That is why I tabled an amendment, where we clearly exclude the Supreme Audit Office from the scope of this law, because it is to be by law and, of course, also from the Constitution, Title Five, independent. Of course, if we had approved this paragraph, Mr Zavadil's amendment, it would mean that the service law would apply to this office. On Friday I spoke with Mr President of the NKÚ Kala, who, of course, thanked me for having a certain effort and care for their office, we exchanged opinions and I warned him to draw attention to his legislation that this amendment was tabled there, which would mean that this service law would apply to them. He himself was surprised. He didn't even know about it, here's a mistake in some way in communication. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior has asked the Supreme Audit Office for an opinion, but on my amendments, but they have already forgotten Mr Zavadil's amendment, so I think there may have been a mistake in communication here somewhere, which is why I point out here that you all know what you are going to vote on. As for certain matters of amendments from the Civil Democratic Party, I have already said here in my technical and factual note that we will not simply support their amendments. According to us, if we give the opportunity for private universities - all of them, which means both state and private - to run the administrative exam, there's gonna be a big business in those private schools. Private schools get paid for it. Whatever public schools do, we have a lot of public schools here, we have quite a lot of them, there's a university in almost every county town or one of its branches, and we really have experts there. So I don't see why this should be made into another business, this law. As for the rotation she's mentioned many times here, I've already mentioned that. With regard to certain other exceptions, that is to say, to whom the law is to apply and to whom it is not to apply. Of course, we will support Mrs Kovářová's amendment, which removes from the scope of this bill the President or the President correctly, the State Office for Nuclear Safety. We will support this, because according to us, and I have also spoken to Mrs Drábová - she demands that she be removed from this law. Because if they are in Section 2 (1) (b) 1 possible exceptions, including the President of the CSO and others, because they are somehow appointed, either by the Government or by the President, so I also tabled an amendment which says that the law will not apply to other elected officials or in some way appointed officials. Whether it is the Czech Office of Agricultural and Cadastral, the State Office of Nuclear Safety or the State Mining Authority, and as stated according to the competence law. That is what we have agreed on in the political negotiations that have taken place over the past months. However, the coalition of fear gave way to the right-wing opposition and did not reflect on our amendments. And as I learned today, all my amendments have a negative opinion. As for any other ways to improve this law, we think that there is nothing else to improve it but to make it worse. He's already bad on his own. It's just bad the way he's been discussed here. It was a parliamentary motion under the pressure of President Miloš Zeman's condition that Andrej Babiš be appointed Minister of Finance. A comprehensive amendment is then prepared for six months, which will then be on the agenda. We've got June, and then there's July, and we approve it at third reading, and there's obstruction going on. Obstructions will be abolished provided the Directorate-General of State Service is launched. That's what finally happened. Of course, we have tabled amendments in good faith, not just us, but also the Dawn movement, and their amendments have not been reflected. Which I think is a great pity, because we were willing to work on this law in a good way, because if it is not to be amended in the next elections to the Chamber of Deputies, how else would we have done it, rather than actually coincide here in the Chamber of Deputies. And then when I heard that it wasn't pre-negotiated in the Senate, and the president said that he would eventually veto this law, it's obvious that the law isn't of any quality in itself. I understand that we need a service bill. We are the only country in Europe that does not have this adjustment in effect. It's approved, but it's not effective. So we're really the Kocourkov again. We're really popularly speaking, Kocourkov. And if this does not improve, then let us not be surprised that the picture of politics in the Czech Republic will only be worse. Because if we don't find the communication, and the communication, I have to say, it's a little bit better than it was in the last Chamber of Deputies, because I've already sat here in the last Chamber of Deputies, where the neoliberal right was ruling, and the communication was really terrible, they were really playing on their turf. And it was they who caught up with the shadow of the 2002 Service Act when it was not effective, because they put their friends on the central authorities of the state administration, various news outlets and other things. So that's what caused the fall of the last government. It really was. In short, I would comment on our position. But before I end this whole thing, I'd like to read a piece of legislation here. I'll ask the Prime Minister if I can load it now. [[Chairman Hamáček: Yes.]] This is Mr Snopek's amendment, which had his amendment written on the June comprehensive amendment. Here you can see again that when you send someone an amendment - complex, and then it's being redesigned for three months, and you want to know some position of an office, they're expressing themselves to you about what they have. And you could see that with the President, because he was confusing the sections here. I don't think he was wrong, but he still had an old version. The point is that Mr Snopek has read the amendment stating that the present section 200 is renumbered to § 201. Paragraph 200 was the cancellation clause, i.e. the penultimate paragraph before the last paragraph on effectiveness. But it all fell under the table, so we fix it, or Mr Snopek corrects it in the following way, by legislative technical regulation, that - the provision in question is inserted after Section 169 as a new Section 170 and the following paragraphs are renumbered. This is a simple legislative technical regulation so that we can take a vote on this amendment. And now for the complete conclusion. As I said here in my speech, the KSČM Club will not support this service law. Not because, even if our amendments go through - we probably won't support it just because of how it was discussed, who was invited to these meetings and how our comments were reflected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u35	Before I give the floor to Mr Fiedler, a few more announcements. First of all, Mrs Maxová - replacement card No. 9, then Mrs Dobešová apologizes for today's meeting within 12 hours for work reasons. [[11.10 hours]] Mr Klaška apologizes for the afternoon meeting, writes from 12 o'clock, for personal reasons. Mr Novotný apologizes for the entire meeting of today's work obligations outside the Czech Republic. Sorry, Josef Novotný. And one more announcement really technical. Because questions are multiplying about how this day will be organized, I will allow you to propose the following procedure. Of course, I do not want to anticipate the development of the debate at this meeting, but I assume that at some point this meeting will end. Then we would end this meeting and between this meeting and the 15th meeting, which is supposed to start afterwards, we would give 45 minutes of lunch break. So we're gonna cut our lunch break from the usual 90 to 45 minutes, and we're gonna start a 15th meeting that's gonna happen somehow. And ten minutes after the 15th meeting, the 16th meeting would begin. So that's how we'd do it to make lunch break possible so we wouldn't have to interrupt the meeting and fit in with lunch break. I hope that's okay with everyone and there's no objection. Mr Fiedler would now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u36	Good morning, Mr President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I can assure you that I will not speak for as long as my colleagues, that I am aware that today is Wednesday and we are at third reading. I'd just like my colleagues here, the others talking about other aspects of this. I would briefly mention what brings about the functioning of ministries, the way they worked and how they will work. I printed a message that was on the Teletext of Czech Television and it's short, I'll allow you to read it here. About what happens in practice: Do I make orders for donations to political parties? Firms that donate money to political parties gain about 50 percent more public contracts than comparable companies that do not contribute to political parties. This is reported in the research of the Applied Economics Centre, according to which the study shows a high risk of conflict of interest. - And that's what we've been talking about, isn't it? - They have developed a complete database of donations to political parties in recent years and have linked information on procurement, subsidies and other risk factors. The results point to a fundamental problem in the system of financing and control of political parties, said the chairman of the association Jiří Skuhrovec. So many citations of this report, which was published on the teletext of Czech Television. Now to another matter. It has been said here several times today that many of you who are here in this Chamber of Deputies do not actually agree or oppose these political representatives and that this is the result of some political agreement. And I am going to turn back a little bit, because we have been in a new composition since the beginning of this Chamber of Deputies, and I quote one sentence from the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which speaks of a parliamentary pledge. Just an excerpt. Article 23 (1) (a) 3: "I pledge my honor to carry out my mandate according to my best knowledge and conscience. " I will therefore be very curious to see how those who have publicly declared that they do not agree with those political representatives, how they will vote on the amendment of the Dawn Parliamentary Club, which proposes their abolition. So whether they will vote in their opinion, in their conscience, or vote in accordance with political agreements and policymaking. Let's all watch it, citizens too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u37	Thank you. Another, really -- oh, sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, the rapporteur who volunteered has come first. And I've just been warned that my meetings and their numbers have been a little messed up here. Let us be absolutely clear: after the end of this meeting, a meeting will continue to deal with the press returned from the Senate, and then a meeting that will address the issue of sanctions. That means 16 and 15. Well, I hope everything's clear now, and I'm sorry for the inconvenience. Mr Chvojka, the rapporteur, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to load small legislative technical adaptations to my two amendments. This means to the big complex and then to the other, tiny complex to the complex. Just in case, before I forget. So to the first, big, complex amendment, which is marked in the 7112 folder, that is, in the folder where all the amendments are, the "leg tech" asked me to read the correction of a minor error, such that in Section 60 para. (5) the words referred to in Article 90 (5) are replaced by the following: (2) shall be replaced by the words referred to in Article 89 (1). 2. So this is a mix-up of § 89 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official 2. The point is that in the revised comprehensive proposal, in this case, the shift of the paragraph has not been taken into account compared to the previous comprehensive proposal. So thank you, that's B1, my complex amendment. And then a minor error in Section 60, from the legislative technical department, we note that it is still appropriate to read in the debate in the third reading an adjustment which logically results from your proposed amendment in connection with the proposal to repeal paragraph 2 in Section 149. And the minor technical modification is such that in § 198 para. 5 with the words § 149 para. 3) shall be replaced by Article 149 (3) of the Treaty. 2. So it's in the protocol and, of course, it's procedurally and factually and on paper, in particular, it has a legislative technical department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u39	Thank you, rapporteur. And now Mr. Černoch has the floor with a proper speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u40	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Government. This House has been in charge of the Service Act for a very long time. The approval of a quality service law is provided in its programme by all the political parties that are here in the Chamber of Deputies. Given how much attention is paid to the Service Act, how much time has been spent on the discussion, I would expect that over time this law will be piling up, that it will improve, that it will be at least a bit fratile. Unfortunately, the service law met another fate, and although the original standard, which was read at second reading in mid-July, was not ideal, it was at least some step forward. Unfortunately, the text we have here today cannot be positively evaluated. The proposal to be approved here today is not a positive solution. Although experts and experts dealing with the service law had some reservations about the original proposal, they certainly took it as a good basis. A good basis is the depoliticisation and stability of the state administration. What we have here today is not supported by almost anyone in professional circles. It's such a glamour. The government's gonna check it out, it's done. Although he will cross out the approval of the Service Act, no one can check out the fact that he has fulfilled his objectives by this text. As has already been said here, the discussion of the proposal that is tabled has been dealt with in the form of some agreements, meetings where some parties and movements have been invited more formally to participate in this to be done, but some proposals have not been taken very much into account. [[11.20 hours]] I think that each of you is getting a lot of emails about how this law will work or rather not work, what are the professional reservations about this law. And I would quote now - it has already been here - from Reconstruction of the State: Of the defined partial requirements for quality law for Czech government, only a third of them are thus fulfilled. A whole range of areas is solved by the norm inadequately, poorly, or their solution remains completely neglected. I understand that we cannot agree on all the points, on all the principles, but if we are trying to find a good quality service law, we must legally agree on at least most points, which I think is not happening at this point. For me personally, the most unacceptable principle of competition is. The fact that the government is a part of the state's policy will always be, and that will certainly not change anything. But that political selection will be conducted across the entire state administration, so I think it's already wrong. How else do you explain that there is a possibility to cancel the tender at any time if the lead winning candidate does not seem appropriate enough? How else do you explain that the results of the tender are not binding and that the winning candidate can be skipped by another political favorite? No one can say that this method of selection is independent and apolitical. The goal of all this is to create a well-functioning machine for some party and friendly apparatus. I just have one question that was raised here about Mr Stanjura's political deputy, who I think he called exactly - a political deputy without a job. The reason they're even gonna be there? What's the reason the Deputys are gonna be there if they don't have a job? Because they're people someone's gonna have to pay. I don't think those salaries are small. So what's the reason the political deputy's gonna be there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u41	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u42	Thank you for the floor. I've already argued here about the position of the Dawn movement. Let me just make a brief legislative technical remark. In the third reading debate, I want to supplement my amendment on legislative technical regulation. The design is marked with letter C in print 71/12 and is heading for the release of § 173, i.e. to remove the post of Political Deputy Minister. Paragraph 173 is closely linked to § 189 in the part of the transitional provisions and the logical consequence in the event of the repeal of § 173 is also the abolition of the whole of § 189, thereby supplementing my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u43	I thank Mr Fial. So far, Mrs Jana Černochová is the last enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would have a great request to the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec, or to Prime Minister Sobotka, because speculation is multiplying as to whether this wording of the service law has any impact on the law of illustration. You know that at the level of this House we have also gone through a rather broad discussion on this subject, and I would therefore like to know the position of the legislator before the final vote, as it is with the intervention in the rendering law on this text, or it is not, or if the rendering law will be affected by the accompanying legislation, if nothing changes at all and the situation remains as it is. I'm just sorry the Home Secretary is leaving now... [[The Home Secretary who wants out of power calls from door to door to check it out.]] He can check it out, okay, thank you. [[with a smile]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u45	Yes, thank you. The next entry is Vice-President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. There are a lot of reasons why we should adopt the service law. But I consider two absolutely essential. The first is that we have to manage effectively and professionally government, and the second is security for officials to avoid the so-called. The nights of the long knives, as we have seen in the past, and how this term was introduced by the former Prime Minister into political terminology. The fact that this is not a simple amendment is obvious from what we can see from the last 12 years that is happening around this law. This makes me more aware of the compromise that we have been able to achieve across most of the political parties represented in this Chamber of Deputies. I mean, the movement in our minds can be different. The movement is based on the fact that something is moving somewhere. But if an agreement is made, the crucial thing about an agreement is that it doesn't move on the basis of the momentary movement and the agreement remains an agreement, because that's the thing that works between gentlemen. If we are to build on where someone's opinion is currently going, no long-term agreements can be formed and no stability can be based. I therefore remind everyone of the agreements that have been made. These agreements have brought reconciliation to this amendment and will ensure at least a longer life span of this standard than three years, by extension of another government that will very hard dig this standard, and thus significantly endanger and destabilize the lives of 65,000 people in this Republic. Representatives of a member of the government are discussed here. I think that this is a fundamental misunderstand of this standard, because the paragraph that you are repeatedly discussing here is more or less a policy against political insecurity. Any minister can create how many deputy ministers he wants if this paragraph is not there. It is really about the fact that the Constitution knows only one term, and that is that the Minister represents the Deputy. Therefore, in the moment you remove this paragraph, it will mean that any other minister can, for example. to name 15 Deputys, and there will be no brake to limit them. On the contrary, this paragraph is an insurance policy against such political evils. Rotation of state secretaries, as presented from the ODS workshop. [[Inadmissible noise from ODS Members.]] Isn't that yours? [[It's not.]] I'm sorry, yes, it's from TOP 09. I'm sorry, you're right. It is the amendment of Mr Plíšek. This idea in the people's community has a defense. Unfortunately, this paragrafo text, as proposed, cannot be supported because we see many shortcomings in it, which in practice could mean a collision in the state administration. In any case, we see the proposal as such positively. What I perceive, however, is that we have been actively trying to change the political culture represented by the Chamber of Deputies all along. Is it too much, or is it not enough? Let each of you answer that. But the proof of the process as we've been through it is that it can be done. Here I see the absolutely essential fact that we, as Members, are able to agree. For that I would like to thank everyone here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u47	Nice good noon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. Another duly applied for by the Vice-President is Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to Mr. Vice-President. I'm sure they're supposed to comply with the agreements, I agree, but if it concerns 65,000 civil servants and 10 million people that the authorities are dealing with, too, and almost every day, I think if it comes to the fact that the agreement is not quite good, that there are possible changes. The debate was not about whether to support or not to support the entire law, but there is a debate about political representatives. There's a draft of Dawn to make sure these political Deputys aren't. There's a match that went through the media. At this point, I don't think it's a question of whether there's a whole law of service going down, or whether there's just some partial adjustment, because the debates that have been here have been very much around this. In the summer, Jandák here said "you want to build" and "we hope that you will build long so that we don't have to accept it." And now, in fact, there is a similar debate about the amendment that úsvit tabled before the President's speech. There was no deal. It was just our proposal because we didn't like this point. It's up to you whether you support him or not. No one can give advice or tell anyone what to do. It's up to each of you. I think it will only change the service bill that will eventually be passed for the better. I would therefore ask you to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u49	Thank you, Mr Černoch. I apologise to President Stanjur with a factual remark and to Mr Igor Nykl with a factual remark. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u50	In order not to be a complete selánka at the microphone, we are applying to the agreement and we say that the proposal creates the prerequisites for a massive exchange of officials after the change of government. Since this is happening during this parliamentary term, let me have a few numbers. From 29 January 2014, when the government was appointed, to 31. 7. this is in six months and two days, for the posts covered by the Staff Law, the ministries and the Office of the Government ended 1 041 employment conditions and 1 163 new officials were accepted, which is certainly a significant set of 65 thousand, because in particular - we have detailed statistics from individual ministries - the new terminology is presented. He won't let me mention any of the experts. For example, Homeland - 183 employees left the interior in six months, 187 - first place. Second place - finance. 109 left, 112 came in. Third place, Ministry of Defense. 119 left, 104 came in. To be fair, the biggest difference between leaving and coming is at the Office of the Government, where 52 left and 108 new employees came. I note that only those covered by the service law. And that's exactly why we've been looking for and found a compromise with the government coalition, which unfortunately includes deputies without work, but we have a minister without work, so we'll survive the deputies without work. I am once again committed to supporting this law as a whole, regardless of how the individual votes on dozens of amendments will result. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] We believe that this creates good prerequisites for having a good and impartial civil service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u51	Mr Igor Nykl, the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Miroslav Kalousek, made a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u52	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. Such a hit this season, the Service Act, is coming to an end and, of course, some must be adopted. What I'm really sorry about is how I read the comments, where we did the service bill. I would like to read one of these, which I love: "The whole service law is an outburst of all the worst in Czech politics, literally a futral of all its sublimeness, awkwardness, amateurism, legislative stachanism and lack of humility for lawmaking. It belongs in reading rooms, how to literally not do politics." When I see some of the facts that accompanied it, for example, that the minister, who basically was responsible for it for six months and then no longer participates in it, is not even present, he has no notes, I am terribly sorry. I hope that when the law is passed, it will be time to make some changes in a very short time, which will make it a little bit better, because it seems, and I have to admit, it has brought a lot of problems with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u53	I thank Mr Nykl. With another factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u54	Thank you for your attention. Doctor. Nykl now spoke of a minister who is part of his solid government coalition and his own political will. Caught together, hanged together, Mr. Ambassador. This rule applies. I'm gonna get off on another thing. I wanted to say that we are all very happy that the service law will be passed, and that I think it is a good law that will allow the future - of course, it will be amended many times, but it will be evolution, it will not be a revolution. Please don't fight, colleagues, in the breasts that this law will finally prevent the criminal practice of the night of long knives. The figures quoted here by President Stanjura are true. And let me tell you, even as one of the remaining service doyens, that no government, neither Klausův', nor Zemanův, nor Paroubkův, has ever committed such a horrible human genocide as you have committed, and you have reduced significantly the professional level of central government bodies. A number of experts who were able to give good work to seven eight governments, seven eight ministers, and each minister was glad to have it at his office, were mercilessly fired just because they refused to serve the interests of Agrofert. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u55	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another factual remark, Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister. After that, the Minister of Defence, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u56	Thank you for the space. Now, my colleague, Černochová, has frightened me a little bit about where she's moved to the government bench. I owe her an answer to the rendering law. I did a quick background check on that thing. Compared to the existing legislation, i.e. the 2002 Act, the Illustration Act changes there, in relation to two state organisations, namely the NBU and the SAO. Both of these organizations know about it. We discussed this and it will be healed within the framework of the amendment law, where this amendment will be made by Mr Chvojka. I made a deal with him. This means that there is no other change in the context of the illustrations compared to the existing legislation. I just want to remind you of one thing. To ministers under this new regulation, their power remains to decide in the so-called decomposition proceedings. Those are the only changes that are there. In the context of the illustration of the NBU, we deal with the SAO. We'll settle this in the framework of the amendment law. Otherwise, the same as in the 2002 Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u57	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you to Mrs Černochová, as I have heard here. With another factual remark, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can first promise you that I will not produce any newspaper headlines. I'm gonna take a couple of maybe a little provocative points. Let me say that, at least for me, the political deputy isn't really a big deal and a big deal. Anyone who's been head of the department at the Ministry for at least a few weeks, I think he's gonna be right about me. I never knew I'd have to stand up for the mosquitos, like we used to call those MGMO alumni. But I think that given the C.E.D. and the fact that this is an elite school comparable to ENA, and given that they can be bound by various levels of security clearance, I don't think they would pose any major threat to our government. I'm third in terms of personnel replacements. Thank you for the count. It is a pity that it could not be tripled, because you know very well that it is not possible to set a state of zero, that not the past government, not the past government, but all governments have delegated various people to various functions very often completely unrelated to their real agenda. So you're being represented in the ministries. And if someone took the closest co-workers with them and tried to remove the most flagrant cases, I think that's completely legitimate. [[11.40 hours]] As far as expertise is concerned - and I think it is important that the public service is simply attractive to people, so that it is not said that dorks go there, whereas those able to go to the private sector. This is not the case in a number of countries, those able to choose quite legitimately between these two options and very often go to the state administration, but which should guarantee them some professional growth and some social security. [[The President pointed out the time]] . Yes. Last two notes. And I don't want to relativize, for God's sake, the laws as a whole. But without some kind of elementary political culture, nothing fundamental in that government is going to happen anyway. I very much agree with what has been said here by several of you. Adopting the law isn't some kind of omnipotent move. That is the first step, but I think we should take this first step within the agreed consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u59	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. [[Nobody.]] Let's enjoy this moment, please. So I am ending the debate on the Service Act, and if no one has signed up, I am asking whether they are interested in the final words of the plaintiff, or the rapporteur of Mr Chvojka, or Mrs Kovářová. If not, we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur Chvojka to announce the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to speak to them before the vote. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am glad that after that several months of annabation, we finally got to approve this necessary and important law, in my opinion, perhaps. And the procedure is this. I don't think it's as standard as it is with the simpler laws. There are quite a lot of amendments. So first, we should vote on those legislative technical adjustments that have been read, and then there are Amendments A, B1, B2, C, D, E, F etc., etc. Everyone will certainly be notified who is submitting it, and both the Minister and I will say the position we have on these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u61	I'm asking if anyone has any reservations or suggestions for this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u62	What I would like to say about these amendments is letter D, E. D is Mr Klán, e is Mr Korte. And then we have M, points 2 to 13, and N, this is Mr. Petr Fiala and Mr. Marek Benda. There are more amendments and I have been asked to vote after points. I don't think there's any problem why we couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u63	So we're going to vote these parts on points. I ask again if anyone has any reservations about this procedure. If it does not, I will vote on the procedure, as proposed by the rapporteur Chvojka. pardon, Mr KDU-ČSL's chairman has a proposal. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u64	It didn't say "H," so we would also beg for points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u65	So please, the rapporteur, if he leans towards it this way. The rapporteur agrees, so I specify the procedure, and H would also vote on points. Does anyone have any reservations about that? If not, I am opening the vote on the draft procedure, as presented by rapporteur Chvojka. Initiating vote. Who's in favor of raising your hand and pressing the button? Who's against it? It is voting number 4, with 171 Members present, for 163, against none. We will therefore vote on the various amendments, and I am asking the rapporteur to lecture them. I will ask both the Minister and the rapporteur to always take a position on them and then vote on them. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u66	Thus, the first package should be legislative technical adaptations consulted by the legislative department of the House. I think everyone who loaded them knows what's going on. They are basically technical, and I think they should be voted in one package. So now we should vote on these legislative technical comments and minor adjustments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u67	I beg the Minister's opinion. Please let the Minister turn his mic on. [[The Minister agrees.]] I ask the rapporteur for an opinion. [[The rapporteur agrees.]] Initiating vote on legislative technical adaptations. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 5, registered 171 Members and Members, for 168, against none. We have adopted this amendment. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u68	Thank you. I have here an amendment under letter A, which is an amendment to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, but it should not be put to the vote because it is completely in substance identical to my comprehensive amendment, which was also agreed as a basis for further amendments. So A isn't voteable if I say it right, but that's how I was told by the legislative union. The next amendment should therefore be my big, comprehensive amendment, where the political agreement of the coalition with a part of the opposition is enshrined. B1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u69	We will vote on Amendment B1 of Mr Chvojka. I beg the Minister's opinion. [[The Minister agrees.]] Mr. Ambassador Chvojka?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u70	That is basically my amendment, so I would be a little stupid if I were against it, so, of course, agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u71	Yes, the MP did not surprise Chvojka. I therefore initiate the vote. Whoever is in favour of adopting Mr Chvojka's amendment raises his hand and pushes the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 6, 171 Members and Members, for 127, against 11. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u72	Thank you. The next proposal is also mine, it is Amendment B2, which is such an even small, rather technical, supplemental amendment to the big amendment that we have just agreed to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u73	So it is a very small proposal from Mr Chvojka. I beg the Minister's opinion. [[The Minister agrees.]] Mr. Ambassador Chvojka? [[Positive, of course.]] I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 7, 171 Members and Members are registered, for 168, against none. This amendment was also adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u74	Thank you. Then we have the amendment under letter C, and it is Mr Radim Fiala's amendment. It's about the political deputies, if I say so correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u75	We will therefore vote on Mr Fiala's amendment. I beg the Minister's opinion. [[The Minister disagrees.]] I ask for the rapporteur's opinion. [[The rapporteur disagrees.]] I am opening the vote on Mr Fiala's proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 8, registered 172 Members of Parliament, for 43, against 110, abstained 19. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u76	Thank you. We've dealt with the letter "C." Then we have the letter D, which is the amendment of Mr Klán, who asked me to vote separately on the various points of this amendment. The points that this amendment contains are seven, so we will vote under letter D on seven different matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u77	We will therefore vote on the amendments under letter B on all at once, if no one - one at a time - opposes this. [[Rapporteur: D, dé.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Rapporteur: Under letter D.]] Under the letter D as Dana. I'm sorry for my deafness. Let's take this one step at a time. I assume the first will be the D1 proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u78	Yes, first D1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u79	I'm asking for an opinion. [[- Disagree. Rapporteur: Also disapproval.]] Initiating vote on Amendment D1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number nine. 173 Members and Members are registered, for 43, against 129. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u80	Then we have a D2 point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u81	I beg the Minister's opinion. [[Disagree.]] I ask for the rapporteur's opinion. [[It's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on D2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 10. 173 Members and Members registered, for 61, versus 98. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u82	Next we have D3 point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u83	I beg the Minister's opinion. [[Disagree]] . I ask for the rapporteur's opinion. [[There's also a disagreement.]] Initiating D3 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 11. 173 Members and Members signed in for 29 against 131. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u84	And then I have D4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u85	I beg the Minister's opinion. [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[There's also a disagreement.]] Initiating D4 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 12. 173 Members and Members signed in for 62, against 109. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u86	Furthermore, we have Amendment D5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u87	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[There's also a disagreement.]] Initiating D5 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 13. 173 Members and Members registered, for 32, versus 134. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u88	Amendment D6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u89	The rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating D6 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 14. 173 Members and Members registered, for 61, against 109. The motion was not accepted. Mr Koskuba does not seem to comment on the facts, so I am erasing him. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u90	The last point under D is D7.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u91	The rapporteur's opinion? [[It's also a disagreement.]] Initiating D7 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 15. 173 Members and Members registered, for 61, versus 98. The motion was not accepted. By doing so, we have adopted all the amendments under letter D - or have not adopted them. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u92	We did not accept a single amendment under D. We voted on all but neither was adopted. At least we voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u93	So we voted on the proposals under letter D. Please propose another procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u94	We have here Mr Korte's amendment, which also asked me to vote separately on the two points mentioned in the amendment. So we have E1 and E2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u95	Now, for a moment, I will interrupt our vote, and I ask the honourable Members to close their eyes on the gallery of the guests, where I welcome the President of the Knesset of Israel with the delegation, His excelence Gary Koren. Welcome to the Chamber of Members of the Czech Parliament. [[Members for the applause in the benches are rising.]] Let's keep going. We will therefore vote on Mr Korte's proposals. First of all, on the amendment - rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u96	First E1 and then E2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u97	So I'm asking for an opinion on the E1 of the Minister. [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur. [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote on Mr Korte's amendment under E1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? There's a vote number 16. 173 Members and Members registered, for 44, versus 111. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u98	Mr Korte E2's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u99	Please, Minister, your position. [[Disagree.]] Please, rapporteur. [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on Amendment E2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 17. 172 Members and Members registered, for 25, against 119. Nor has this proposal been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u100	Thank you. We have Mrs Hnyková's amendment under letter F.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u101	We will vote on Mrs Hnyková's proposal. Please, Minister, your position? [[Agreed.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[That's a yes, too.]] I am opening the vote on Mrs Hnyková's proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 18. 173 Members of Parliament registered, for 141, versus 31. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u102	Thank you. Then we have Mr Martin Plíšek's amendments, namely the amendment under G1, G2, G3. So first G1, then G2 and then G3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u103	We will therefore vote on Mr Plíšek's proposal, first of all on the G1. I beg the Minister's opinion. [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[There's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on proposal G1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 19. 173 Members and Members registered, for 21, against 117. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment G2. I beg the Minister's opinion. [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur. [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on Amendment G2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 20. 173 Members and Members registered, for 20, against 119. The motion was not accepted. Next, we will vote on the last of Mr Plíšek G3's amendments. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[Agreed, too.]] Initiating vote on Amendment G3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 21. 172 Members of Parliament registered, for 145, against 23. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u104	Thank you. We have the amendments made by Mr Podivínský under letter H, but they are divided again into three points, so we will vote on variant H1, H2 and H3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u105	We will therefore vote on the proposals of Mr Podivínský. First, Amendment H1. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[There's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on Amendment H1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 22, registered by 173 Members, for 14, against 102. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the H2 proposal. [[Minister of Dissent.]] I beg your pardon, rapporteur? [[It's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on Amendment H2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 23, registered by 173 Members, for 26, against 104. The motion was not accepted. The last of Mr Podivínský's amendments is the H3 proposal. Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[That's a yes, too.]] Initiating vote on Amendment H3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 24, registered by 173 Members of Parliament, for 145, against 11. The motion was accepted. We have dealt with the amendments under the letter h Please ask the rapporteur for further points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u106	Thank you. Then we have Mrs Věra Kovářová's amendment under the letter Even with a vote twice, because the amendment has two parts - I1, I2. I have also been asked for a separate vote, so point I1 and I2. The Minister here rightly reminds me that point I2 has been consumed by my amendment, so we are voting only on point I1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u107	So we will vote on Mrs Kovářová's amendment under I1, point I2, is unvoting. I'm asking for an opinion on point I1 of the Minister. [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur? [[There's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on Amendment I1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 25, registered 171 Members and Members, for 74, against 92. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u108	Thank you. We also have an amendment under the letter J, and it is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u109	Please give the Minister's opinion on this amendment? [[Agreed.]] Please give the rapporteur's opinion? [[That's a yes, too.]] I am opening the vote on Mr Ondráček's amendment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 26, registered by 173 Members, for 141, against 21. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u110	Thank you. Then we have a series of Mr Zavadil's amendments, and they will vote as letter K (1) and then together as letter K (2) to (5).
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u111	So we're going to vote twice. I ask for an opinion on K1. [[Minister of Dissent.]] Mr. Newsman to K1?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u112	My friend Jarda Zavadil would like consent, but I have to say no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u113	That's very kind of you, Mr rapporteur. Initiating vote on Amendment K1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 27 vote, 173 Members and Members - and a friend of Jarda Zavadil will not commend you, because for it was only 12 and against 121. Furthermore, we will vote on the remaining amendments under the letter...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u114	K, points 2 to 5 together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u115	K, points 2 to 5. The Minister's position on these points? [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[I'm afraid there's a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on points K2 to K5. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 28, registered by 173 Members, for 11, against 156, nor has this proposal been adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u116	Thank you. Then we have an amendment under letter L, and it is Mr Václav Snopek's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u117	[[Minister of Dissent.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[It's also a disagreement.]] I am opening the vote on the amendment under the heading L of Mr Snopek. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 29 registered by 173 Members and Members, for 30, against 129. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u118	Thank you. Then we have Mr Petr Fiala's amendments to vote first under point M (1) and then under point M, where points 2 to 13 are, and I have been asked to vote separately. So first M point 1 and then separately points M2 through 13.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u119	So we're going to have a total of 13 votes on each item under the letter M. Let's start with the M1 point. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[It's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on item M1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 30, 173 Members of Parliament signed up, for 38, against 116. The motion was not accepted. Next, we will vote on point M2. Excuse me, Minister? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[It's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on item M2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 31, 173 Members and Members, for 43, against 125. Even point M2 was not accepted. Next, we will vote on point M3. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 32, registered by 173 Members of Parliament, for 15, against 131. The motion was not accepted. Next, we will vote on point M4. Excuse me, Minister? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M4. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 33, registered by 173 Members of Parliament, for 81, against 83. Even point M4 was not accepted. Next, we will vote on paragraph M5. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M5. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 34 vote, 173 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, against 86. Even point M5 has not been accepted. [[12.10 hours]] Next, we will vote on point M6. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's for point M6, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 35, registered by 173 Members, for 78, against 85. Even point M6 was not accepted. Following is M7. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M7. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote number 36, registered by 173 Members, for 82, against 81. Nor has this proposal been adopted. I see a request for a vote check. A little patience, please. [[The President is waiting for the outcome of the check.]] Point M7 will not be called into question. Anyway, I have an application for a check-out, so I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We're going to vote on M8. Please, Minister, your position. [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M8. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 37-order vote, 173 Members of Parliament signed up for 76, against 83. The motion was not accepted. Next, we will vote on paragraph M9. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M9. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 38, registered by 173 Members, for 38, against 120. The motion was not accepted. Next, we will vote on paragraph M9. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M9. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. [[The rapporteur argues that this is point M10]] . Excuse me, I declare this vote misguided. Sorry for the slip. I'm kind of freaked out about these M's. We will therefore vote again on point M10. Initiating vote on item M10. We've heard opinions. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 40-order vote, 173 Members and Members registered, for 38, against 121. Point M10 has not been accepted. Next, we will vote on point M11. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M11. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 41, registered by 173 Members, for 38, against 120. Point M11 has not been accepted. Following is M12. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M11. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. [[The rapporteur corrects that this is point M12.]] Twelve, sorry. I'm sorry. I also declare this vote confusing. I'm sorry to confuse you, too. We will therefore vote again on paragraph M12. - Some people are already signaling me to take a nap. That's a welcome challenge. Initiating vote on item M12. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 43 vote, 173 Members and Members, for 38, against 119. Even point M12 has not been accepted. The last item of the vote under letter M shall be M13. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item M13. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 44, registered by 173 Members, for 35, against 122. Even point M13 was not accepted. Please, rapporteur, propose another procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u120	Then we have another amendment - under the letter N. It is Mr Marek Benda's amendment. This amendment also contains more amendments and I was asked to vote on all six points separately. So we will vote on the points of Mr Benda's amendment N1 through N6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u121	Thank you. We shall therefore begin by voting on point N1. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item N1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 45-order vote, 173 Members and Members, for 32, against 94. Point N1 has not been accepted. Next up, point N2. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item N2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 46, registered 172 Members of Parliament, for 31, against 95. Even point N2 has not been accepted. I ask Mr Šarapatka if he is applying for a factual remark. Apparently, he's not. Thank you. So we're going to vote on point N3. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item N3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 47, 172 Members and Members, for 30, against 93. Even point N3 has not been accepted. Following the N4 point. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item N4. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 48-order vote, 172 Members of Parliament signed up for 30, against 93. Point N3 has not been accepted. [[That's right, it's point N4.]] Following the N4 point. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree. - The rapporteur argues that this is point N5.]] Sorry, point N5. Now I've confused the Minister. It's a shame when a math teacher doesn't know till 6:00. [[There's a voice that says it's the third time.]] Mr. Rapporteur, to point N5? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on item N5. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 49, registered 172 Members of Parliament, for 31, against 93. The last proposal under the letter N is N6. I thank the Minister for his non-verbal communication. [[Minister of Dissent.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[There's also a disagreement.]] Initiating vote on item N6. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 50-order vote, 172 Members of Parliament signed up for 30, against 95. Even this proposal under the letter N was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u122	Then we have the penultimate amendment. It is Mr. Jan Birke's amendment, letter O.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u123	I am opening the vote on Mr Birke's amendment under the heading. O. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 51, registered by 173 Members and Members, for 159, against 2. The motion was accepted. Last amendment, Mr rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u124	The last amendment under the heading. P as a Member of Jiří Petrů, so it is easy to remember. Member of Jiří Petrů, Amendment P.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u125	I am opening the vote on the amendment under the heading. Mr Petr. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 52. Registered 173 Members, for 159, against none. Sorry. I have an objection to the vote. Mr Tomio Okamura has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u126	Sorry. Me very briefly. I voted no at point D5, and I have a yes at point D5. But I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u127	Thank you, Mr Okamur. For the tape screen, please indicate. This has dealt with all the amendments. I have here a request for a final vote before the vote of the Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayor Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our word is that, given that a basal agreement has been complied with, we will support this bill actively. However, allow me to highlight one moment in the vote on the amendments. The House rejected Mr Korte's amendment E1 by a rather overwhelming majority, thus expressing its conviction that the SNB was a full-fledged university before 1989 and its graduate had a full-fledged university education for the purposes of this law, just like Charles University, Masaryk University, Palacky University or BUT Brno. We were not surprised by this position with the KSČM Clubs and the YES movement due to the history of their Presidents, but, of course, from a certain point of view, it is necessary to admire the attitude of the historical parties of the ČSSD and KDU-ČSL, which did not hesitate either to admit color or to understand the pragmatically hot heart rate of the time. Although our opinion remained in the minority and we have no choice but to take note of it, let us keep in mind that this communist repressive school was not a full-fledged university, that its graduates do not have a full-fledged university education, that the Husákovian regime, which is culled by a communist cop, does not belong in the state administration 25 years after November 1989, and that we will try to change your red opinion on the first opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u129	Thank you to President Kalousek. Furthermore, the President of the Party of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura, came forward with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u130	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it was said here that the House was opposed, so I would like to point out here that the Úsvit movement supported Mr Korte's amendment, since the Úsvit movement also agrees that the education obtained by a study at the Faculty of State Security or at the Faculty of State Border Protection cannot be considered adequate for the service in the state administration. That means that part of the House rejected it outside the Dawn movement. The Dawn Movement is against these university graduates working in the state administration. That's what I wanted to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u131	Thank you to President Okamur. Mr. Filip, President of the KSČM, to the microphone with the line with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to inform your colleague Kalousek that I do not have the National Security College, that I have graduated from Jan Evangelista Purkyně University, now Masaryk University in Brno, so I do not know what kind of history they are talking about, and I also do not question his university. I just want to say that I don't distinguish people based on what school they've studied, whether high school, college, one or poppy, but according to their moral qualities and their expertise. In this respect, I believe that they are deeply mistaken when they distinguish people according to their schooling, they do not judge them by their actions. Because not according to words, but only actions you recognize people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u133	Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek, with priority right before the vote. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u134	If I were to take the final sentence of President Filip literally, we really do not need any higher education for the purposes of this law, because only by action would we recognise whether he is or is not qualified. An honest question requires an honest answer. As far as history is concerned, I was talking about a common history resulting from the inability of both of you, Mr. Presidents, to present a negative illustration certificate. And that doesn't change the fact that this amazement over the attitude of historical political parties whose former members have been heavily persecuted, abused and tortured by the SNB College graduates, this approach and its tough cynicism must be admired from a certain point of view, even though we cannot agree with it. May we therefore have our opinion that these people do not belong to the state administration 25 years after November 1989.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u135	If no one else claims priority rights, I shall make a motion for a resolution on which we shall vote. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Bill of Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný Tejc and others for the Act amending Act No. 218/2002 Coll., on the Service of Civil Servants in Administrative Offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other servants in Administrative Offices, pursuant to House Press 71, as amended by approved amendments." [[Service law]] I beg the Minister's opinion. [[The Minister agrees.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[Agreed.]] I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution that I have tabled. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 53, 172 Members and Members, for 127, against 12. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club, reports with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, hello. I just wanted to mention the account of the debate that took place just before the vote that life brings a number of paradoxes, so that due to the political agreement - the truth - he supported this Kalousek, while KSČM did not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-014-02-001-002.u137	Yes. Thank you for alerting us to the various paradoxes of our time. Since we have exhausted the programme of the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I am ending the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and note that the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will follow, starting 45 minutes after the 14th meeting. To round it up, I'll meet you here at 1:15 p.m. for the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good lunch with those who will have lunch.
