ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u1	1. Opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic on sanctions of the European Union against the Russian Federation I therefore ask that an authorized member of the government take the floor. The Prime Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would therefore like to join the debate at the current meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, whose programme we approved a little while ago. Allow me to respond to the debate before the parentheses, i.e. before the approved programme, and to some things, and maybe even partially complement my opening statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to take advantage of the period that is now ahead of the municipal and senate elections, as many of you have been driving around cities and villages, discussing with citizens, and I must say that there are really strong concerns among people. It's not a thing we should be doing in any way. A lot of people are afraid of war. They ask if there is really a threat of confrontation in the east of Ukraine, which could be even wider than what we are experiencing now. If there really is any risk that he can get into the confrontation of NATO and Russia against the background of the crisis that is in Ukraine. That's what people ask. People are also worried about the economic instability associated with the Ukrainian crisis. Results were published on the decline of German exports to Russia. Results on the stagnation of German economic growth and the economic problems that persist in Italy and France have been published. The thing that I think is also worth considering is that many citizens are thinking that the situation in Ukraine, the crisis between Ukraine and Russia, is not provided with objective and balanced information in our country. Many people complain that, especially on public television and public radio, there are certain propaganda tendencies that only side with one side. This, too, is the feeling that people come to the discussions that I have. This year is a year when we remembered in summer a hundred years since the outbreak of World War I. This is not at all a nice anniversary that we commemorated this year, and I just want to remind you that the First World War has also started in principle inconspicuously. It began with Austria-Hungary organizing a criminal campaign against Serbia, declaring war on Serbia. It was expected to be a thing that would be quickly ended by the victory of Austria-Hungary. In the end, it became a global conflict that changed Europe's face, affecting world history to a large extent, but it cost millions of deaths in particular. And even the whole Czech Republic, whether you come to a smaller village or a larger city, you will find everywhere a monument with the names of those who died in World War I. With a distance of 100 years, almost all historians and experts agreed that it was in fact a nonsensical war, that it was a war that led to a senseless, unnecessary, absurd number of victims from all European countries. And it actually started inconspicuously, and the whole world got sucked into it. I think it is extremely important that we keep an eye on the aspects of the Ukrainian crisis that are linked to the escalation of tensions, not only in the area of economic and political relations, but also the tensions in the area of security are escalating. I think it is also important for us to think about being part of the Western world, we are part of NATO, we are part of the European Union, but I think that what we could bring to the Western Community and what we could bring to the Western Community is a deeper knowledge of the environment that exists in the east of Europe, a deeper knowledge of the mentality of the people who live in the east of Europe, because I very often feel from the opinions of some colleagues in the countries of the European Union or NATO, that in fact the realities in Ukraine, in the east of Ukraine, in Russia are not very well aware of and their reactions from that knowledge do not come out of it. I think it is necessary to ask if the economic war with Russia will help our region, Central and Eastern Europe. It is necessary to ask if it will help our region if, as a result, the tension and escalation of sanctions triggers some new Iron Curtain on the eastern border of Ukraine, what it will actually mean. And we need to ask if increasing security tensions will help our region. And it is also necessary to ask whether this is a really good and responsible procedure, if it is dragging over Ukraine, overreacting about whether Ukraine will belong to the Russian integration group, or the European integration group, it has been brought to the very limit of Ukraine's break-up and has been brought to the very limit of the civil war in Ukraine, because this is, among other things, the result of the geopolitical pressure and various geopolitical interests that are now being reflected in Ukraine. And precisely because these are serious geopolitical interests and geopolitical pressures and we are part of them, it is pointless to think that this will be resolved by the economic sanctions of the Western world against Russia. When I talk about people's concerns about what they are worried about, what they are afraid of, many citizens feel that it is the pressure that is directed towards Russia, and that it is the pressure it is, the effort to expand the European Union and NATO, that it is something that is causing Russia's aggressive behavior that is now manifesting itself in Crimea and Ukraine. This is where the economic sanctions were mentioned. So I am pleased that even the representatives of the right-wing parties welcome the fact that sanctions will not affect our economy, but I must say that what is happening, the debate that is taking place around the form of economic sanctions, reminds a little of what we have experienced in the Czech Republic in the past. [[17.10 hours]] In the 1990's, I remember a number of Czech companies leaving the Eastern markets, leaving them partly for ideological reasons, partly leaving because a wild privatisation took place here and a number of companies just fell apart, stopped having the ability to export to the east. What happened? The place was occupied by companies that came from Western Europe in large part, companies from Holland, Germany, France and the Czech companies in the past took the place. In the past ten fifteen years - and it doesn't matter if there were right-wing or left-wing governments - Czech companies have tried to return to the eastern markets, including the Russian market. It was an effort that was not easy, it took many years, but managed to get most of the Czech companies back to Russia. And today, not only employees from these companies ask, but also businessmen ask whether we will leave Russia again, and many of them are worried that we will never go back there again, simply because those companies not only from the Czech Republic, but also those European companies that will leave Russia or will be taken away as part of the opposition, they will take the place from completely different parts of the world. This means that Europe will evacuate the markets in Russia in the framework of sanctions and companies from China will come there, or maybe companies from Brazil will come there, but no one will care about Europe anymore. The same concerns the issue of gas exports coming from Russia to Europe today, and Russia is trying to redirect dependence on European customers to China, for example. These are questions that are legitimately asked by many Czech entrepreneurs, and I think that it is necessary for the government to have a dialogue on these concerns with Czech companies. I would therefore like to remind you that, in addition to negotiating the form of sanctions, we, as a government, have also prepared and launched a working group that is conducting a dialogue with employers' representatives, with business associations, with the Chamber of Commerce, is also conducting a dialogue with the trade unions and we are trying to look for measures to eliminate the potential negative effects of sanctions on our economy. We've already mentioned that the new, current sanctions that are now being prepared are not the first. Yes, that's right. We, too, have applied our comments to the previous rounds of sanctions prepared by Brusel, and we have tried to make the least possible impact on our economy, but the problem is, among other things, the anti-sanctions that come from Russia if trade war escalates. We, as the Czech Government, are able to influence the form of European sanctions against Russia by negotiating, but, of course, we do not have the slightest chance of interfering in what Russia will prepare and submit as its countermeasures, as its anti-sanctions. And I can assure you that the cautious stance of the Czech Republic on economic sanctions certainly did not stand up for the debate that we had within the European Union, only the Czech Republic. I would like to point out the very reserved position of Italy, the reserved position of Austria, France, in a large part of the debate also the Netherlands and, among other things, the countries of Visegrad, such as Slovakia and Hungary. So we were certainly not alone in asking about the effectiveness of sanctions, we were certainly not alone in questioning what the objective of this sanctions strategy of the European Union is and where we want to go in the context of pressure on Russia. It was simply not just the Czech Republic, and in my opinion, these are completely legitimate questions that I raised on the European Council as well. There was an open issue of security policy. Again, I think it's quite all right. The opposition has no doubt the right to express its opinion on this, but we are in a situation where the right-wing opposition, which criticizes the government, is said to defend our security interests little, so we are in a situation where the right-wing opposition has ruled here for many years. And I remember that shortly after I joined the Prime Minister's office, the outgoing Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Alliance came to the Czech Republic to visit and the interview with him was not pleasant at all because he informed me of areas where the Czech Republic did not fulfil its obligations to the allies. We simply inherited a situation where we were criticized for not fulfilling our obligations. And we've inherited a situation where the country's defense budget has fallen for many years. And I must say that I am smiling when ODS and TOP 09 criticize us today for supposedly being little credible in defence and security policy, when it was the governments of Petr Nečas, in particular, that cut and cut defense spending in the Czech Republic dramatically, so that it began to be criticized among our allies. And today we are a country that issues almost the least from the Member States of the European Union. I am also impressed, and it is strange, and I would like to ask the representatives of the right-wing opposition, if you so support this, so that we operate solidly within NATO in the security area, why the right-wing did not support the agreement on the gradual increase in defence spending. Before the NATO summit, we agreed as a coalition that we would declare that the Czech Republic would try to increase defense spending up to 1.4 percent of the gross domestic product in 2020, which I believe is a measured and reasonable increase in defense spending, and we also called on the right-wing opposition and other opposition parties to join this commitment. But none of the opposition has joined. This means, ODS and TOP 09, which criticize us here, have refused to support the declaration of political parties that the defence budget of the Czech Republic will gradually increase, after the Ministry of Defence's budget was completely devastated under the rule of the right. So don't be mad at me, but your comments and objections sound completely hypocritical. You have had the opportunity to ensure that we fulfil our obligations in NATO, you have neglected it, you have done nothing, today we have a problem with that, we have to correct it, and today you are not even willing to support the Government's intention to increase the defence budget of the Czech Republic. As I said before, the Czech Republic is part of the Western world, we are members of the European Union and we are members of NATO. And I must say that the procedure that we have voted for over the past seven months has always been a procedure that has enabled the common position of both the European Union and NATO towards the crisis in Ukraine. We, as the Czech Republic, never broke that position, never blocked it. And it is the most serious security crisis we have been facing since the end of the Cold War in Europe. But this does not mean that within the European Union and that we should not say our opinion within NATO, our position on what is going on in Ukraine, and that we should behave hypocritically and pretend that sanctions represent some solution to this crisis when economic sanctions do not bring about any resolution of the crisis and do not mean any resolution of the crisis. There was a question about what the next steps of our foreign policy would be. These steps will continue to be coordinated with our allies in the European Union and NATO. These will be actions that will support the reduction of tensions in the east of Ukraine, which will support the maintenance of a ceasefire in the east of Ukraine. These will be steps to stop the spiral of escalation of sanctions, which brings nothing good. And it will also be steps to take care of refugees in the east of Ukraine, because hundreds of thousands of people have fled from those areas where they fought, either to the west of Ukraine or to Russia. I would like to remind you that the UN has published a report that around 800,000 people have left their homes either in the direction of Ukraine or in the direction of the Russian border. That's a huge number of refugees. And if we remember, for example, how the Western world reacted at the moment when the Miloševičům regime started to drive people out of Kosovo and there were refugees from Kosovo, I'm just reminding you what the Western world's response to Serbia was. So we must also - and we should contribute to this as the Czech Republic - so that these people can return home peacefully, and we must also contribute to Ukraine's avoiding the humanitarian and economic crisis that threatens it as a result of what has happened. One last thing I'd like to say. In my view, it is necessary to maintain communication with Russia and to maintain political dialogue with Russia. If Europe has ambitions for its future enlargement, if NATO has ambitions for its future enlargement, it is not possible to expand these integration structures at the cost of escalating military tensions between Western Europe and Russia. Just this price may prove too high, and it may prove too dangerous for stability in the world. [[17.20 hours]] There have been other outbreaks of instability, places where we need to work together. I want to remind you that when we talk about the dangers of terrorism in the world, the dangers of Islamic fundamentalism in the world, Europe needs to work with both the United States and Russia in these areas. And in many of these activities, we, Russia and the United States are on the same ship, and communication and cooperation should not be interrupted here. So there are other things we need to think about. It is not only Ukraine, it is not only a conflict in Ukraine, but there are other serious security risks in today's world with which we are confronted, and this requires that we maintain a cool head in relations with Russia, do not succumb to hysteria, force naturally to respect international law and those standards on which a reasonable peace arrangement stands, but at the same time it is extremely important that we do not subject to campaigns that may be directed towards the short-term escalation of tensions that are reflected in the long-term deterioration of relations. I want to make it clear that I do not wish, either as President of Social Democracy or as Prime Minister, to get into some new phase of the Cold War, to have Europe redistributed again in some form of iron curtain, because we would have paid for it on one side and the other side of the curtain if it had been triggered if we allowed the new Iron Curtain to be launched here in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we continue our negotiations, I'll read two note cards. At 16 o'clock Mr Komárek apologizes for personal reasons and at 17 o'clock Mrs Havlová apologizes. I'm registering two factual points. Mrs Zelienková shall speak with her first point of fact, followed by Mrs Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, as I understand the Prime Minister's statement, I do not agree with some of the points mentioned by the Prime Minister. This meeting is convened, among other things, because of the supposedly unacceptable and the Republic of the injurious position of Prime Minister Sobotka on the sanctions of the European Union against the Russian Federation. If we look at the substance of the matter, the Prime Minister said only that he wanted to continue to discuss sanctions with partners in the EU and that he wanted to remove some of the items of economic importance for exports from the penalty list. As depheusist as this attitude may seem, the Prime Minister has done exactly what his colleagues from other EU countries have done. He entered into sanctions negotiations and tried to reconcile a negative attitude towards Russia's aggression with minimizing its country's economic impact. At this meeting, however, we should rather talk about the nature of the problem and our follow-up. I think it is clear to all that fighting in Ukraine can only have a political solution, and the events of the last few days have aroused a timid optimism in us that weapons will actually cease to exist. At the same time, it is also quite clear that the political solution is exactly what Moscow has rejected to this day. We all know that Russia has engaged in a repeated invasion of Ukraine, starting with the illegal occupation and annexation of Crimea and then the provocation of the conflict in the east of the country, where it sends weapons, money, military specialists and eventually regular military troops. And we all know that this conflict cannot be resolved militarily simply because Russia will never allow separatists or its own soldiers to be defeated. So if we see small signs of a political solution in Ukraine today, it is the result of the pressure that the free world is exerting on Russia. I think it is quite obvious that if it weren't for our opposition to President Putin's policy, his territorial ambitions would have been considerably greater. [[Time warning]] [[Once again, the Member is reminded of the time.]] I'll finish the sentence. I don't understand much of those politicians who talk about the fact that sanctions have not succeeded. I ask these people to realize that sanctions are the strongest political tool the Western world has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u5	With another point of fact, Mr Stanjura is registered. You prefer. Okay. Mr Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive report on how they consulted the government on sanctions. I was already interested because they only consulted there on the impact on the Czech economy. In fact, no one was talking about the purpose of sanctions, because no one was talking about which sanctions are most effective, which really are felt for the aggressor, that is the Russian Federation. I'd appreciate it if there was a debate about that one day. Not only will this or that economic sector suffer in our country. Somehow we forget that we are members of the Alliance, somehow we forget that what the European Union is acting on is our resolution, because we are part of the European Union. We cannot talk about the European Union and us. We are a part of it, and it would be good if we accepted this too. Yes, I'm in favour of negotiating with Russia. It's necessary. Of course, we must maintain dialogue with Russia. However, when there are concerns about the renewal of the Cold War, I would like to remind you that I am still a memorial that the Cold War began by being a coup in Prague and that Russia started the blockade of Berlin. That's when the cold war began. We shouldn't forget that. Not that they were any English, French, or American steps back then. Germany was still occupied. Yes, we're supposed to negotiate, it's the right thing to do. It is. I assure you of one thing. It's very hard to negotiate with full-blown jocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. I listened carefully and patiently to the Prime Minister's second long performance. I have asked you, Prime Minister, through perhaps the President, two questions quite simple, clear, about the blank cheques, and I have not received the answer. I know I can't make you do this. So I'm asking you for the second time, if you could, and all of us, answer who asked you to sign the blank cheque and who else wanted it and who signed it and who joined those who didn't sign the blank checks. We don't want anyone signing blank checks. I must agree with Mrs Zelienková's speech because we are not the ones who say that sanctions are not working. On the contrary, we say, and I made it clear on the microphone that if there's a truce today, and we're all happy, that, among other things, is the result of the sanctions. We are not one of those who question the results. I'm just saying, the economic sanctions didn't start until July. Previously, sanctions were a type of ban on travelling in the circle of some people, etc. But the real economic sanctions started in July. So if they've worked after two months, then I think it's good and it's no use to question them, but to say it's the tool that works next to the diplomacy, next to the diplomatic negotiations that are going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time, and I want to ask you... One more point of fact. Mr Nykl. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u10	Good afternoon. I would argue a little bit with the sanctions, with all due respect to Mr. Stanjur. Professor Milan Zelený is our most respected, most sensitive economist from New York University. About a week ago he spoke on TV that unfortunately sanctions, economic sanctions, are a thing that is effective on small insignificant countries that do not have a perfect economy, not a giant. Unfortunately, Russia is a country that is a bit different. It's a country between the top 10 countries of the world. It is energy-sufficient in the economy. I wouldn't dare say that sanctions are what's optimal. Of course, those sanctions will harm us, too. And I guess there are other ways. And I guess I trust Professor Milan Zelený more than here the views of such polo-economics, with all due respect for the knowledge of many people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u11	I thank my colleague for his time. Mr Lank's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u12	I'll be very brief. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Speaking of sanctions, I looked at one thing on purpose. According to the study - and you may not be pleased with this, a sanctioner - according to a study that compared the success of economic sanctions historically, it compares about 204 cases, so if the aim of these sanctions was to disrupt a relatively small military adventure somewhere else, it succeeded, sort of, about every fifth. And that's an optimistic guess. If we look at Cuba for example, there's 50 years of sanctions, there's about one trillion dollars of economic damage, and I don't quite feel like it's having a big deal with Cuba or something's going to change significantly for the better. That they might have a democracy or something. I just can't get rid of the conviction that sanctions will damage everything. And both the countries to which they are directed and the ones that provide them, especially the smallest ones. I don't think any economic sanctions will do America much harm. It's probably a little different with us. I can't help but imagine that President Putin, when he heard that the Czech Republic was joining economic sanctions, was sure to have his knees tripped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Now a colleague of Mr. Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. At the same time, I will ask you, given that you were the first to be signed up for the debate before the meeting was approved, so that you take the floor at the rapporteur's table when you agree. If it's okay with you, I'll take the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u14	It is an honor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u15	Okay, well, after your speech, I'll vote it out. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ministers, my colleagues, we are having a sort of debate here. Some people think it doesn't change the whole thing. Well, we've heard a lot of speeches and performances. I'll start with one thing I've been discussing with the citizens as possible today, on the social network. Prime Minister, through Mr President, a number of people are grateful to you for finally speaking as one of the few people at the European Union summit where you proved that we are a member. Not only to be a member, but we are a full member of the European Union, because a full-fledged member can submit his proposals and may request that they be discussed and may also want to be followed. We're not just a member - we're not just a member, as we constantly emphasize here. We are a full member and a full member has the opportunity to apply opinions and promote opinions that represent matters relating to his own country. And you, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, have spoken this way at this time, and most nations value it and perceive it. I would also like to say to you, Prime Minister, do not take any of the comments from some colleagues, especially from TOP 01. TOP 09! That would be a number! Top 09. Look, he's the hypocritical attitude, the double standard in his approach to foreign policy and the diplomacy of these speeches is literally dripping. It's literally dripping. If you look at defending and criticizing international law. International law has been kicking ass for 20 years, but I have never once heard the gentlemen from the TOP 09, especially the former Foreign Minister, Mr Schwarzenberg - unfortunately, he is not here - criticize the violation of international law. He had a chance! For example, the Israeli government recently stepped out and said: We will build a new settlement on an occupied territory in Palestine on 400 square kilometres. This is a violation of international law. International law, there is a violation of human rights! Did someone from TOP 09 come out here to criticize violations of the human rights of Palestinec and violations of international law? He didn't. He was here sometime before in the past, because you all know I'm talking about Yugoslavia and Kosovo. Did Mr Schwarzenberg come forward to defend international law, which was violated by removing Serbia's territory from Kosovo and creating a quasi-state recognised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time? And they didn't criticize international law? Is that another international law? There's always something to be said here, moralizing, but at this point, I think it's very hypocritical. We are a full member of the European Union, we are a full member of NATO and we will follow all things. But we are also part of the discussion that we can give. I believe that what is happening in Ukraine, above all, ladies and gentlemen - who is taking it? It's what the people who are calling for the sanctions are taking it away from the people in Ukraine. And it's like it's not even about them at this point. You know, when we talk about thousands of refugees, the UN and OECD are talking about thousands of people who escaped from Donbas. Where'd they go? On which side of the conflict did they escape? Did they escape to Kiev? No, they ran the other way to Russia. So I'm asking, why did they run off to Russia? And what are we talking about? What diplomatic instruments? Sanctions are a diplomatic tool for bringing the person against whom we are leading those sanctions to the negotiating table. Give me one single example of when it happened! When did the regime change or when did the regime change its foreign or internal policy? Name one country for me when it's done! If I were to set an example. Cuba - for more than 50 years, the United States has imposed sanctions on Cuba. What changed in politics there, except that these sanctions were taken by innocent people in Cuba? What changed in Iran? At the time of the imposition of sanctions in 2005, Iran had 6,000 centrifuges for nuclear mass production. He's got 16,000 today. Their policies haven't changed at all. What is changing now is the problems that are affecting the Czech public, so we will talk about Czech national interests - from the perspective of international policy, of course. We have, and that has been said here, and we all agree on it, we have an interest in peace in Ukraine. Peace, which is also a peace for us, because any other version of politics that is associated with the Cold War or with the war that has begun to threaten us is threatening us! He's threatening our children! I have four kids and two grandkids, and I'm worried about them at the moment when I'm listening to some people say how easy they are to release, how hard they need to be. As some begin to admit, it is possible for us to send more soldiers somewhere near the Russian border. I remember that in 2002 I had the opportunity to speak with Mr Gorbačov in Karlovy Vary, and a number of people were asking about one thing. What do you say, Mr Gorbačov, in 2002, that is 12 years ago, what do you say that NATO is constantly expanding and approaching your borders? And he said to me, and at the press conference, he said, "Well, Bush and I had a whole other Bush at the time. And we'll have time to die, duraki! We're like fools now!" So it didn't happen that this was the result of a certain not-good strategy and good policy of some NATO planners, that they are constantly approaching a country and we say - what else? Farther away! Let's see how much longer can we hold out? How much longer are they gonna last? What patience will that be? Speaking of soldiers. You know, there's a whole bunch of people on both sides fighting for those interests. Apparently, there are some Russian volunteers who are fighting on the side of the so-called. separatists, people who want a different arrangement of Ukraine. You know, it's not just that they want to tear away and they want to leave Ukraine for Russia. These statements of this type are minor. There are a lot of people there, and yesterday I had the opportunity to listen to it from that popular singer, or to read it from that popular singer from Kiev who was the star of Majdan. She went to listen and question the leaders of the separatist republics. And she also says: "They treated me and said, above all, we are Ukrajinec, and we want there to be justice in our country. And we want to be able to talk into these things. We want a certain type of federalization." That is something the European Union is calling for. The European Union of the Regions. [[17.40 hours]] Perhaps that is why it was approved that Croatia, Slovenia and other countries were separated from Yugoslavia in the 1990s. I'm not talking about Kosovo because it was a one-sided matter. But the lady said she talked to those people. They want a different arrangement of Ukraine. The people of Ukraine are bombed by their own government, forced to flee their homes. And besides, there are some sections of the right sector, no unnamed oligarchs, who fight alongside that Ukrainian regular army. I haven't once heard any of these gentlemen here who moralize so much that they would raise their voice here over the fact that in some country in Europe, billionaire troops are fighting to kill their fellow citizens. So where's the right? The one meter? I see two meters and great hypocrisy here. Once again, Prime Minister, the public, as I have the opportunity to see her, doesn't resent you. He's just a politician for certain gentlemen. And, of course, I don't think all the people in TOP 09 are like her president. I couldn't be offended. It was kind of hard for me not to get off with what I wanted when I heard Mr. Schwarzenberg was gonna say about our president being like Hácha. Hácha all, at the end of his career, he was called a traitor and a criminal de facto and died in that prison. I don't think so. Seems a little exaggeration to me at the moment. It seems like an exaggeration to me that the chairman of the Foreign Committee says so. Well, I'm a little amused by it, too bad he's not here when he was reciting that Czech poem. You know, in 1850, there was also a poem by Karel Havlíček Borovský, which said, "Evil, mother, evil, Švarcenberec here. I'm done here. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u17	I thank my colleague Foldyn and ask him to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. With a factual remark, Mr Pilný and then with priority rights, Mr Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u18	Dear colleagues, it has been stated here whether or not we are full members of the European Union. I think we're a full member of by definition because we've approached her. Of course, no one becomes a statesman by definition, but by their behavior. I think it is very premature to comment on documents, such as the profile of those sanctions that have not yet been on the table, and to refer to the statements made by countries that have been tactically silent. At present, it is indisputable that a strong opponent needs a strong opponent. And it is also indisputable that at this point, whether we like it or not, he is an opponent of Putin's Russia. I would intercede here to support the unity in this position as full members of the European Union, because otherwise we will never be strong players, and the whole Ukraine-Russia thing will get considerably more complicated because the superiority will be on one side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor with priority rights to my colleague Kalousek, I will have the rapporteurs vote, while this results from the Rules of Procedure and the unwritten rules that the first speaker in a proper discussion is the rapporteur. So I'm asking you to vote on this issue that the rapporteur will be a colleague of Mr. Foldyna. I'm asking who's in favour. I've started voting number three. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 3. From the present 125 to 71, against no one. The motion was accepted. My colleague, Foldyna, is the rapporteur. I beg the floor of my colleague Kalousek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow only a short response to the rapporteur and then to the opinion of the President of the club. I only stress the President because I didn't have time to consult him. The rapporteur may be surprised, but President Hácha was neither charged nor charged. He was simply contrary to all the laws of the Czechoslovak Republic arrested, interned and imprisoned as a helpless senile old man who really didn't know what he was saying in that prison. Without being charged or charged, he also died. bůh forbid it's the last example of our president, even if I'm not so sure. So that's the first point. Second point. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate is beginning to be very blurry to us in incomprehensible detail. The reason we called on this extraordinary meeting was to make the Chamber of Deputies absolutely clear, blurry, unmasked, without saying yes, but - or without saying clear uncompromising principles of folk, perhaps, to state clearly where its foreign policy priorities are at this point, which may be the most important to us since the November revolution, since the fall of the Iron Curtain over the last 25 years. [[Both noise and smile among some Members]] As a country that has been part of a Soviet satellite in the past, as a country that has experienced an invasion, as a country that has experienced the occupation and will of a foreign power, logically within the European Union, we should be front-runners among those who warn against the dangers that they have already known. If I burn myself on that stove one day, I should warn the others. And if I don't warn the others, at least don't try to burn the stove a second time. Assuming there aren't enough of us who profited from the fact that the others burned on that stove, and they would very much like to say - we were happy when the others burned on that stove, we were friends! And we're ready to be friends again. I am now quite openly and quite seriously drawing attention to the apparent Fifth Column, Putinův's fifth column in public space, whether among some Czech journalists, whether among some Czech politicians. The fifth column is here, performing - and acting whether actively, when it says quite clearly: Please, what is this about? The Russian people's rights on the eastern side of Ukraine are defended here. Putin is doing well. The criminal Američan and the criminal European Union are responsible for all of this! And then there are those who even adorn themselves with some constitutional powers that they legitimately acquired in the elections, and they say, "I don't understand it, but it mustn't cost us anything. That is what they say when they may be holding the position of First Vice-President of the Government. This passive position may be worse than the active position, because it's also the fifth column. [[Total silence in the hall.]] She says I don't care about freedom. International law, I don't care about democracy. I'm interested in my immediate economic interest. And that kind of look is devastating. Destroying for every human being, destroying for society and destroying for a state that is not large, not small, is medium, but wants to remain a sovereign state and was a Soviet satellite and knows well what danger it faces. And in this situation, we wanted - and the government knew well that even though we are opposition, it could count on our absolute support - for our government to say: We once experienced the invasion. We once were a satellite of that imperial power that had boundaries in Sumava. We realize that they would like to have that line back in Sumava, and we will do everything we can to make sure that it doesn't. Even if it costs us. The costs we would have spent now will be much less than the costs we would have spent much later. [[17.50 hours]] That didn't happen. If the government against which I opposed came forward and said, "we think Putin is doing well, and now we're behind Putin," we would consider it a crazy position, but understandable. But what the government of the Czech Republic is doing is incomprehensible to anyone. Neither to us, nor to the European Union, nor to the world public. We'd like to be pregnant, but just a little bit. We'd like to tan, but just a little bit. Of course, we want to be partners, but it can't cost us anything. We see the European Union as an ATM, to which we fundamentally treat our citizens as an ATM, when we say: We, the Czech Government, will beat as much as possible out of this ATM. They have to pay us all because we're allies. If, for God's sake, someone wanted us to bear a little cost of maintenance of an ATM or in his defense, protecting that no one would steal anything from that ATM, then we, the Czech government, promise you, Social Democrat voters, that we will not give a crown to Brussels, because we just want to take from that ATM and we certainly don't want to be credible allies. This is how a certain part of the Czech public perceives it, which feels very humiliated. And we feel that we are those who represent this humiliated part of the Czech public, which is offended by this depheusist process of the Czech government. And if the Czech government wants some feedback, let them get to know each other, which I think it has already done, with today's portfolio of the division of European Union Commisariats. Several weeks and months we have heard how a crucial priority is for the Czech government to acquire an economic portfolio. Several weeks and months we have heard how a crucial priority is to obtain a regional development portfolio for Věra Jourová. And maybe it'll surprise you, I think the same thing. I think it would be a very good Commissioner for this portfolio. And even more comical is that there was no pressure on this portfolio at all, that no one really cared for it. The problem is that the European Union, disgusted by our attitude in foreign policy, disgusted by the disgrace made by the President of the Republic of Wales, wondered who else to give the portfolio to, so she gave it to the Rumun. The Prime Minister and Prime Minister Babiš could not have gotten a more diplomatic slap than that the portfolio the Czech government sought had been given to Rumun, although they did not particularly want it, but left to them. And our Commissioner Věra Jourová has acquired a portfolio for which she is certainly professionally prepared. Now I don't know exactly what it's called. I think for sexually balanced justice or something. I'm sorry if I'm not saying it exactly. I wish her well in this portfolio. And it is a total diplomatic debacle of Czech foreign policy and it is an understandable response of our allies within the European Union to the Czech Government and Czech foreign policy. We don't believe you! We don't believe you're credible partners! You're making a policy that we don't understand. You're such a folklore politician. On the expense side you want to have the same plus and on the income side you do not want to bear any costs. We can smile at such allies as much as possible, but we certainly cannot give them our trust or portfolio that we would trust. That's the result of where you led it. The Czech foreign policy, which, since the time of Václav Havel, President Klaus, President Zeman, Paroubkův's government, despite all the reservations of all previous governments, held one consistency of the authority of the Czech Republic, which honored freedom, democracy and international law as a fundamental priority. Now it's foreign policy that says, "What's ours is mine, and what's mine, don't touch it." And we want to be loyal allies, provided it doesn't cost us anything. We're doing a policy that every decent person has to be ashamed of. We're doing a policy that's a disgrace, and now I may kiss the death of the Secretary of State, and he will disagree with me, but the Foreign Minister seems to be an obedient puppet in the hands of Mr. Babiš, Mr. Sobotka and Mr. Bělobrádek. We're making politics a disgraceful, alibistic and undignified lords of Babiš, Sobotka and Bělobrádek. We're doing a policy based on which we lost our international credit by several classes in a few months. We're doing a little untrustworthy piss policy. I would very much like the House of Deputies to try to restore dignity to the Czech Republic by this negotiation and resolution, which will be voted on by the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, because the Chamber of Deputies, as a source of power for all the people, will clearly say that we want to be a credible partner of our Western neighbours and that we consider Putinův's expansion to be the primary Czech national interest. If we say "yes, but," no one will believe you at all. And I'm warning you about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u21	This was the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. At first, I raised factual remarks that were later withdrawn to bring back the priority rights that I thought would not be so common, but they are. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, then colleague Mládek, will speak with priority, and I ask Minister Stropnický if he also insists on his preferred right. Yes. So before the proper debate, these three priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u22	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the last speaker here began by saying that the House is beginning to water the subject. However, if the subject was also watered down, it was nothing against the swamps and swamps that he himself led us into. I'd try to find a way out of this, because it seems to me that this was a real performance that must have fooled you at least pretty hard. Dear colleagues, I attended the NATO Summit together with President Miloš Zeman and Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. I would like to say here that I think I know all the performances that were made by Czech representatives. Of course, I know what I said myself at the three key performances held by foreign ministers. I know what President Miloš Zeman said at the performances. If I couldn't be on them because I had my own, I'd let myself know. I would like to say that the Czech delegation and the Czech President at the Alliance Summit were absolutely consistent about what was said and what seemed quite outrageous to me at the moments. We all spoke on the basis of the mandate we received from the government's negotiations prior to the summit. I can say here that the performances that were there were all held by the government's mandate. We met with the Minister of Defence and the President about a week before the summit for a rather thorough discussion, where we clarified a number of things, we informed ourselves, and we did everything we could not surprise ourselves at the summit. [[18.00 hours]] And now, because I know that these performances, like the key thing at these informal big dinners, were confidential, that means they're not open to the public, and I'm not going to, and I don't think I can exactly describe their content here, so I would still take advantage of the opportunity here given what has been said, and I would inform the House that President Zeman said at these shows that if we are facing the two major challenges in the world, that's the Islamic State, or so-called. The quasi-state of Islamic or crisis in Ukraine, so President Miloš Zeman said that both challenges are serious and urgent, although their nature is different, and he said that the approaches and instruments of how to handle them differ. I said that the President's speech was consistent, he put emphasis on the fight against terrorism in his speech, which is not surprising because I said that at the dinner so-called. The Islamic State held nearly 70% of the debate. So it certainly wasn't something to surprise the meeting, because it was actually in the spirit of what was happening there. I would like to say to you that the President at his performances, which you probably couldn't see and hear, said that he supported measures to strengthen the Alliance's Eastern policy. I would like to tell you that at these speeches the President announced and announced, he announced the contribution of the Czech Republic to the forces of a very rapid reaction and said the figures there. He also spoke of the means that we are prepared to provide specifically, namely, numerically, and I consider the offer that he made there to be significant. It is in my opinion, when I think of it, in complete contrast, what we have heard there about how the Czech Republic is supposedly acting like a country that wants to be protected but is unable to offer anything. So here I am telling you that our performance - and since the President was attacked here, I say, his performance was a specific commitment of the Czech Republic to deliver fighters, to add technology to the forces of a very rapid reaction. These are the forces that are going to intervene so much faster tomorrow than the forces of the reaction, because if they're going to hit 30, 60 days, these should hit at three to five days, which is, let's say, the essence of what this situation is still changing into. I think all the heads of state over there have heard that commitment, and they certainly haven't seen the Czech Republic as someone who's hiding out or who wants to be driven like some kind of stowaway. It's just facts. And I think it is possible to go far in the debate, but they should not ignore such facts. Likewise, the President made it clear to support the action plan approved by the Alliance. In the end, my statement here, but the President's too, was quite clear. So here I am calling for, if there is an attack by representatives of the Czech state, not to ignore the fundamental facts. And I provide them here because I know they don't all have to be known. Another thing I'd like to comment on. We have heard such a fiery call here that the Member would imagine that someone should remember the experience of the Czech Republic from 1938, 1968, and that this is what he would have wanted, what he would have wanted to hear, that would have been the position of the Czech Republic, which would have been based on our historical experience. I am embarrassed to say this, but I would like to assure the Member that something similar with similar reference to Nazi troops in the Czech Republic in 1938, which means Nazi troops, crossed the borders of the Czech Republic under the pretext of protecting a national minority, that is exactly what I said more times in those forums where I have the opportunity to talk about it. And not only did I say that, but it was even widely quoted, I was even surprised at how much it was quoted perhaps in a number of European countries. So it's not something that doesn't ring a bell. If that's what you needed, then if you had any interest in it, you knew it was heard. I have even heard comments that it is no wonder from the Czech Republic that it has these memories and that it uses these comparisons. So the wish and our alleged failure not to do it, I think this place is completely empty. But I would say what I find most to be called to heaven, ladies and gentlemen, is the final passage of the Member's speech, in which he said that the portfolio received by the Czech Republic is supposedly the impact and the result of the failure, in the alleged failure of the Czech Republic's performances and behaviour. Let me tell you - this is, of course, a very courageous speculation that I don't know how it could have come into existence. But I would like to tell you that, on the one hand, I think -- once again, it is for us to speak as accurately as possible. The portfolio that Mrs Jourová has acquired, or which she may gain because she will have to defend it, it is not yet the end of the process, is the portfolio that Mrs Redingová has had until now, which has become one of the most prominent figures on this portfolio, because the issue of consumer protection is currently one of the most powerful topics in Europe. What happened around roaming and so on was something that made her quite famous. This portfolio was held by Italy, it was held by France, which means countries which would probably not despise the portfolio, which is as despicable as Mr Kalousek said. And another thing. So if the Czech Republic did not really receive the drawing portfolio that is associated with the drawing of regional funds, I would unfortunately have allowed myself something here that I think is much more likely to think about, and that is that it has to do with the fact that we had a government in which Minister Kalousek was the Minister of Finance, in which Prime Minister Petr Nečas was, and during the reign of this government, the Czech Republic has worked sourly to the bottom of those countries that have been dealing with regional funds in a way that has even led to certain sanctions and measures after the many warnings that we have received. And it seems to me that it is difficult for the Czech Republic to manage or deal with regional cohesion funds today because the Czech Republic, thanks to him and the ministers of the previous government, has earned a reputation that everyone will shrug over and say: why those who have definitely failed to be good economic operators. So we will only be able to think of such portfolios when this government - I hope it succeeds - proves that it is capable of being a good economic operator, and forces Europe to forget Mr Kalousek and Mr Nečas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Before we go any further, I will read the apology, and this is Mrs Adamová's apology from the meeting from 17.30, Mr Štětina from 17.30 and Mrs Jana Lorencová from the meeting today. Now the factual points: first a colleague Jaroslav Holík, then a colleague Grospič and then a colleague Kalousek. A colleague of Holík's, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I confess, I haven't been in the House long enough to know how it used to be. Three hours have passed since the beginning of this point. There's a lot of properly logged in, but instead, we hear rhetorical exercises, or word fights of those who have priority rights. I'd like to know how much respect there is for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Now, Mr Grospič and then colleague Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, when I look at the discussion around Ukraine and the position of the Czech Republic and compare it with the overcoming between the current, today's government and the former government and former Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg, I remember that the Czech diplomacy did occasionally disgrace, perhaps even occasionally embarrass the Czech Republic, and Karel Schwarzenberg could remember it - through the President - because it was for him that the Czech Republic, for example, once voted in favour of Palestine, for example, when it added to the model of the United States of America - and then remained alone - with a few or six island states. Perhaps it would be such a profound lesson for today and for the moralization of the TOP 09 and the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, when he looks so peacefully here, and on the other hand, he is actually trying to drive the Czech Republic directly into the Ukrainian crisis on the one hand and to create the appearance that the Czech Republic must actually be the one to fill the top of the strike shield for large capital and power groups and the interests of the very other, substantially larger foreign states that are sharpening their teeth, whether in Ukraine or on the underbelly of Russia around the Black Sea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Now, my colleague Kalousek, on a point of fact. And then Minister Mládek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, please, but I would like to object to the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the President of the Republic has been attacked here. I didn't attack the President of the Republic. I have stated that the President of Wales has disgraced us. Which I think is a message that we've absorbed, not just us, but the whole world. The fact is that the Czech President has embarrassed the Czech Republic in Wales with his performances. Since he himself is not responsible from the Constitution, the Czech Government is responsible for him, I called the representative of the Czech Government, i.e. the Foreign Minister, to see if they could somehow arrange for the president not to be a disgrace, given that their political party and Minister Zaorálek personally recommended this president to the Czech public for election. That's all. We are convinced, together with 90 percent of the European Union, that President Zeman in Wales was a disgrace to the Czech Republic, and if you look at the world's media, they are right all of us. I suppose Minister Zaorálek doesn't think we've managed to pay for all the world's media. Just Mr. President Zeman has been a disgrace to us and the government of the Czech Republic is responsible for this, and I wish the government of the Czech Republic would try not to let that happen. First of all. Secondly, we simply want to hear clearly from the government of the Czech Republic whether it belongs to our supporters, to the countries of the European Union, or rather to President Putin, or to the delusion that it could be a bridge between these two poles. Then I fear that Zaorálek, Sobotka and Babiš bought this contract from Bögl and Krýsl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now Minister Mládek - with priority rights, but already in the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by saying that I envy all those who have it so clear, who see it 0:1, who see where the good guys are, where the bad guys are. I am, of course, envious - through Mr President - of the President - of the President, the President of the Kalousek Club, who is also clear about this and who thinks that he will solve all this by calling someone a crook and others the right cowboy. Unfortunately, I see maybe less than 50 shades of gray, maybe even 500. And I even want to hope that those who have it so clear, that it is not "the less I know about things, the better I accept critical opinions and decisions about it." However, I do not want to talk about the annexation of Crimea, which is of course unacceptable for the Czech Republic as a small country. I don't want to talk explicitly about sanctions as such. Here I can only thank the Prime Minister for doing everything he can to prevent them from falling on the Czech industry. However, I would also like to express the hope that Europe and all its institutions dealing with civil rights and their protection, the spread of democracy and freedom will send a signal to Ukraine that the demons of the past, who are performing there in the form of nationalism, anti-Semitism and fascism, and not that they will all be legitimized only by the fact that the enemy of our enemy is our friend. The EU has a huge responsibility here. However, I feel obliged to comment on two things, and this is on the energy that has already been said here, and on the general economic situation in Ukraine, which will undoubtedly have direct effects on us. The current situation in Ukraine shows that we have a huge dependence and interconnection on energy security issues. The Russian Federation is the dominant supplier of energy resources to the Czech Republic. It accounts for almost 100 percent of natural gas supplies. Let us not be fooled by the fact that it is commercially less than 70 percent - two thirds of oil supply. The Czech Government has long been aware of this situation. Since the early 1990s, energy security has been addressed, with alternative sources of supply being built up, so that virtually all energy commodities from other territories can be collected. The fact remains, however, that under normal conditions it is most economically advantageous for us to withdraw commodities directly from Russia. In the field of oil, we import 98 percent of our consumption, 2 percent is our own mining, about two thirds of the imports come from Russia and one third from Central Asia. From the point of view of transport routes we have secured this by two pipelines. One is called Družba, the other is called IKL TAL, which leads from Trieste through Ingolstadt to the Czech Republic. In the event of a failure of supply by the Družba pipeline, we are able to provide alternative deliveries by the IKL TAL pipeline within about two months and a high level of strategic oil and petroleum supply ensures coverage for more than 90 days of import, so that would be without any major problems. In the long term, it is possible to take all oil through the IKL TAL pipeline, even if there are problems in the short term. In the area of natural gas supply, the Czech Republic is dependent on imports from 98 percent, annual consumption of natural gas is 8.5 billion cubic meters, peak consumption 70 million cubic meters per day. In 2013, natural gas was imported from the Russian Federation - 63 per cent, from the Kingdom of Norway 3% and from the European Union 34 per cent. Physically, however, it is transported by a transit pipeline from Russia essentially all gas, Norwegian gas is purchased on the Western European market. The capacity of the entrance point at the border with Slovakia is 147 million cubic meters per day. With Germany making a strategic decision and building the Nord Stream pipeline directly from Russia through the Baltic Sea, followed by the OPAL and Gazala pipeline, we have alternative sources of gas that we are not dependent on through Ukraine, supply could be replaced by the Nord Stream pipeline and also by Jamal. The Czech Republic has one of the largest underground gas reservoirs in the region with a capacity of almost 3 billion cubic meters of gas, i.e. about 40 percent of the year-round consumption. These bins have been filled to 100 per cent since yesterday and are ready to ensure not only winter peak coverage, but also possible blackouts. With the European Union, stress tests have been carried out to simulate various supply interruption scenarios, and it should be said that the scenario that no gas will pass through Ukraine for a month or six months will have no impact on gas consumption in the Czech Republic. We are even able to stop the supply of any gas from Russia for one month, but not for half a year. In that case, it would be necessary to go into emergency mode and gas would only be given to households, hospitals and similar consumers. The economy would be limited. [[18.20 hours]] So the good news is that the Czech Republic is in good shape. We're able to solve the problems. However, I would like to point out that we should be quite interested in the fact that this situation is far worse in other countries of the Central and South-East European region. The worst situation is probably Ukraine itself, which has not imported any gas from Russia since June 17, because it has not paid for deliveries, it is not willing to pay the subscription. At this point, in a better case, the reservoirs are filled only half and deliveries from Poland and Slovakia, together with their own mining, cover less than half of winter consumption. It is of course a question of how the reverses will work, because at these times the German company RWE began to supply gas to Ukraine from Poland and Slovakia, and while it appears from Slovakia to be lege artis, international agreements with Gazprom and Gazprom were violated in the case of Poland, it has now reduced supply in this volume, because the reverse supply of gas to Ukraine was, of course, only Russian gas again. The situation in Ukraine may also be critical because the coal supply is not working. It was usually mined on Donbas, consumed in the rest of the country. The catastrophic situation is complete by an absolute lack of money, a decline in the collection of payments from residents and businesses, a large insolvency. There are therefore problems for the winter period not only in the supply of gas, but also in electricity and solid fuels. Ukraine is part of the Russian energy system, physically separated from ours, so, fortunately, these problems cannot be spilled into the countries of Central Europe directly. Slovakia has its own, already almost filled gas reservoirs and can also be supplied through the Czech transport system through reverse flows from the west. In the event of disruption of supplies via Ukraine, the 2009 scenario in Slovakia would no longer have to be repeated when large customers were limited. Poland is similarly involved. More complicated is the supply of Hungary and Bulgaria. Both countries are fully dependent on gas supplies through Ukraine. In the case of Bulgaria, their containers are filled at 75 per cent and in the case of Hungary, according to the available data, only 60 per cent. A complete cessation of supplies through Ukraine, despite some help through reverse flows from the West, would undoubtedly mean a significant reduction in consumption. Why do I say that? Not only to assure this honored congregation, but also the public that there are no problems in terms of energy supply to the Czech Republic, but also because it threatens elsewhere and can fall on us quite indirectly and quickly. We need a deal. We need an agreement on many things, not just military, political, geopolitical. An agreement is needed optimally by Ukraine, Russia, the EU and the United States. In the economic field, it is undoubtedly necessary to address the association agreement and its implications. It's nice that we made an "A" and made an association agreement with Ukraine, but we didn't do it with a "B." No one made it clear what would happen to the Ukrainian trade, with Ukrainian exports to Russia. This country is one third of its exports dependent on the Russian market. The introduction of the free trade zone through the association agreement raised concerns about Russia's impact on its economic interests. These are technical standards, customs procedures, compliance enforcement procedures or sanitary or phytosanitary measures. It must also be said that if, as some imagine, there will be a wall on the Russian-Ukrainian border and there will be no trade, then what will Europe do with the Ukrainian companies that have exported to Russia? Who's gonna give these people a job? To also tell whether Europe is ready to pay for it. If she is ready to really open up markets for Ukrainian goods, if Ukrainian companies are even able to export to European markets. It's all evidence that they're not. And I fear that this was the greatest form of irresponsibleness in creating unrealistic expectations for a huge nation of over 40 million people, that cooperation with Europe means economic well-being immediately, without solving where these people will have jobs if they do not export to Russia. To be told also to those people that they were expected to receive a European visa, which is neither close nor far away. In order for those who are clear about everything and have it simple, to say what the Ukrajinec are supposed to do, whether they should stay out of work in Ukraine or go somewhere to march. I think these are all things that need to be dealt with. The position of the Czech Government in this matter is consistent and balanced. And I think that we should continue this policy and, in this sense, also agree to the resolution from today's sitting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Minister Jan Mládek. Now I have two excuses. First, an apology from fellow Huml, who apologizes - the reason for a foreign trip. And for personal reasons since 18.30 Mrs Nina Nováková. Now two factual points. First President Kalousek, then colleague Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many speakers, and this is no less about the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. So the situation makes me ask a question I never thought I'd ask, but now I have to ask it after Minister Mládek spoke. Please let Minister Mládek tell the Chamber of Deputies why he was unable to obtain security clearance of Czech institutions. Based on what information the institutions refused to grant him this security clearance and what information according to the information of the Czech security institutions to Minister Mládek is led by Russian intelligence services. In an internal private interview, Minister Mládek was aware of these facts when he was told that he would not be granted security clearance, just as the Prime Minister was aware of these facts. I still want to believe that both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are patriots who primarily pursue the interests of the Czech Republic. But so that we can continue to think so, please, so that one or the other may tell us why Minister Mládek could not obtain a security clearance, what information the Russian intelligence services have on him, yet why Prime Minister Sobotka proposed him to be appointed Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic. And maybe it'll be reasons so relevant that we'll accept them. If this information is not disclosed, I will do it at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Now a factual point - Mr Blažek does not want it. Now Minister Mládek also has priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u34	Madam Members, I would like to reassure Mr President-in-Office of the TOP 09, Mr Kalousek, that I am a Czech patriot, perhaps significantly greater than he himself, but that is for the assessment of others. That's my first statement, and I stand by it. Second statement. He asked a completely demagogic question because he knows that there are many things that can't be answered in that system how it works. So to be clear, I didn't finish my background check because I left the public administration, and the background check was cut. That's one thing. The second thing is that these services never, in principle, disclose the reasons for interruption or rejection. And I haven't been notified either. That's all. The Russian service, it's completely absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u35	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Now with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u36	You do not have to use the President, Minister, you are a member of the Government, you can turn to me directly as I am to you. And once again, if at this point it was not such a serious matter as the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic, I would never have opened this issue because I never wanted to doubt your patriotism. But in order not to doubt him, you have to convince us. The background check was cut because it couldn't be completed. And you've been briefed. You were informed of the reasons why you wouldn't get the clearance just as Prime Minister Sobotka was informed. I think there is enough time before the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to consider how to inform us about this so that we can no longer doubt that you are a Czech patriot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u37	So now, Mrs Dana Váhalová, who has been duly signed up in the general debate. I'm glad we got our hands on properly registered colleagues and colleagues. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u38	So am I. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues, colleagues, good evening, almost. Let me get back to the subject, Ukraine. The ever-increasing crisis in Ukraine poses a major threat to Europe's peace. We are witnessing events that threaten us with a possible form of war operations that Europe has not experienced since the end of World War II. The reason for unrest is the indirect engagement of military powers, such as Russia, which feels threatened by events in Ukraine, the removal of former President Janukovyč, the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine and, in particular, Ukraine's efforts to join NATO. Russia has joined the Crimean Federation and has been involved in supporting the separatist movement and is also responsible for the escalation of this conflict. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Union condemned the connection of Crimea and Sevastopol to the Russian Federation as a violation of international law. On the other hand, I do not think that it is possible to resolve the situation in Ukraine by force, through an anti-terrorist operation carried out by the Ukrainian government. Rather, I believe that negotiations with the Russian-speaking population in Ukraine should have taken place immediately. The problem of the Ukrainian government is that it is under pressure from ultraright groups part so called. The euromaidan, who want confrontation, even if they do not have great public support, but have gained considerable influence on the force structures. The outcome of this tragic situation and the unwillingness to communicate with each other is the real civil war in the last month, when members of the Russian armed forces in the form of volunteers are also involved. Due to the escalation of the conflict, there are large losses on both sides, including women and children. Ordinary citizens in Ukraine and citizens of neighbouring countries welcome every ceasefire report. If we want to talk about sanctions, their purpose should be to force both sides to negotiate and seek compromise in a peaceful way. It is not possible to allow a closed ceasefire to be used for the preparation of other war operations. Each side of the conflict that tries to tackle the situation by armed means should count on the condemnation of the international community. However, sanctions should not worsen the already difficult situation to deal with, as well as social and economic, and affect ordinary citizens. Let us look back at the effectiveness of sanctions and, on the contrary, the effectiveness of agreements based on diplomatic and political dialogue. The security environment of today's world determines, above all, our ability to prevent crises and seek the way to agreements and compromises in a spirit of global responsibility. Only the citizens of Ukraine must decide on the state's legal arrangement and political orientation of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to read the resolution in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u39	Good evening. Thank you, Mrs Váhalová. With another proper application, Mrs Jana Fischerová is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, partly government, ladies and gentlemen, it has actually been almost six hours since I joined the debate, so many have been said here. I, too, have watched very closely and listened to all the arguments about who was discussing who. The name Karel Havlíček also fell. I know all kinds of other epigrams. I was recently in a place where he was taken to Brixen, and there I was also asked by people from the government and ordinary people, as we see with Ukraine, because even this situation is very disturbing to them. So I will say that I too, not only in the Czech Republic, but also abroad, had the opportunity to discuss this seriousness. And since my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party, both President Petr Fiala and President of the Zbyněk Stanjura, have already made many of these serious arguments, I am more likely to comment on some of the things I see in this situation, so that I do not repeat exactly what has already been said here. I am very pleased that today we have really opened up a discussion on this matter to Ukraine here, although it was actually the TOP 09 and ODS, when we, like, pushed a little bit of a fun government to do this so that today it would be discussed here in plenary. This matter has also been dealt with by the Committee on European Affairs and on 4 September adopted resolutions which, in my view, are legislatively equal with the adoption of the resolution here in plenary. If this is not the case, please note and it is possible to load it, but I think that the seriousness of this situation has been well discussed there. I would also stress that I believe that every government's primary duty is to focus on whether it is right-wing or left-wing to defend national interests. That's what I'm thinking, and I hope we can all agree clearly. So what are our national interests in Ukraine? There are a number of them, but as I mentioned, many reasons and arguments fell here and I -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u41	I am so sorry, Madam, but I would like to ask for peace for your performance because you are a lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u42	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much, perhaps this will help, I am trying to impress. I will now say that this fundamental question, which I want to address briefly in my speech, which system of international relations we want to live in. I see it on two levels. Basically, there are two ideal types. On the one hand, it is a concert of powers and a system of international law against it. We know the concert of powers very well from history, it has also been mentioned here by some Members, but I will mention the triple division of Poland, the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact, the parceling of colonies, and I could go on and on, but I will not. On the other hand, the system of international law is a system in which the rules of the game apply and are respected, and for the country of our geopolitical position and reality, or if you want importance, the system of international law is more advantageous than the system of concerts by powers. Thanks to him, we can at least sit at the table and not cower under the table and let others decide for ourselves, as we already felt in Munich. Of course, reality is not black and white, there has been a lot of talk about it here today, and it is usually somewhere between these two ideal types, which is based on the very definition of ideal types. Of course, the strong will always be stronger and weak weaker. However, this does not change the simple fact that the system of international law is more advantageous for us and is therefore also in our national interest. [[18.40 hours]] Now to Russia. Russia has clearly violated international law by its actions in Ukraine. The annexation of Crimea trampled on its own words contained in the Budapest Memorandum in which it guaranteed Ukrainian borders in exchange for Ukraine's surrender of nuclear weapons, by the way, in its third-highest nuclear arsenal in the world. Maybe if the Ukrajinec had kept their nuclear weapons back then, Russia wouldn't have dared at them today, but I would have been jerking off lately. Russia's other evidence of violations of international law is that Russian soldiers are operating in Ukraine today. That's what some of you were talking about today with question marks. And I will say, as has been said, although they are unmarked, it was said that from the time of the truce from 5 September a large part of them left, the Russian soldiers, or I say: However, they are there and only a fool could deny their absence or their presence in Ukraine. It is really our concern to help Ukraine if we want to prevent the pendulum of international relations drifting towards the concert of powers. Poland, the Baltics and other countries of the former Eastern bloc understand this very well. Unfortunately, it turns out that we don't quite understand it, virtually. not always our government. But who other than us, with our historical experience, should be able to understand the situation of a nation facing the aggression of its stronger and expanding neighbor? I will briefly comment on the Prime Minister and on the behaviour that has been discussed here today from different perspectives. Politics, I could call it my chamberlain's behavior, by invading the various lobbyist interests of certain industries, has betrayed our national interests. Again, I listened carefully to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and now I do not see him here quoting: if dialogue stops, we will pay hard, as he quoted from the New York Times. On the other hand, I was glad to hear that the dialogue will continue, which is only right, and I will be glad if the dialogue also continues on the territory, I will say, not only the Committee on European Affairs, but also the Foreign Committee. I believe that the Foreign Minister Zaorálek - still is not - will attend these committees if we invite him, because these are some topics that we will certainly be happy to hear about, and the OSCE meeting he has informed us about today can be more frequent. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not a power, and we're not gonna be a power anytime soon. Dear government, however, nothing changes that we co-create an international relationship system by our conduct on the international front. We should be very aware of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u43	I thank Mrs Fischerová. With another proper application, Mr Radim Holeček is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u44	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I will also get back to the point. In the comments of Prime Minister Sobotka on EU sanctions and developments in Ukraine of 6. 9. 2014 I'm with me. he has read, and the Prime Minister has confirmed here today that the Czech Republic has succeeded in adapting the proposal for new sanctions against Russia. I ask: can it really be considered a success that, I quote to the Prime Minister, the EU economy will be less damaged and there is no direct risk for Czech industrial exports to Russia? From a purely economic point of view, yes. If the economic aspect is the crucial parameter of our position, why does the Prime Minister and the government not fully define itself against sanctions? So we could save maybe more than eight billion. sales that the Prime Minister boasts in his commentary. Do these questions seem stupid to you? Yeah, me too. The fact is that there is a fragile ceasefire in eastern Ukraine at the moment. Does anyone really think that would have been the case if the West had not imposed sanctions against Russia? What is the position that the Prime Minister and the government are taking on foreign policy and the security of our Republic and our citizens? I have no idea, after all this discussion and presentation of the Prime Minister, I really have no idea. What alternative to solving the security of the Czech Republic and the security of Czech citizens other than joining EU sanctions is the Prime Minister and Government offering us? I didn't register one. And do we have any concept of foreign policy at all? The fact that there is no clear and consistent foreign policy at the moment does not mean that there is no foreign policy. Just because we ignore danger doesn't mean it's safe around us. The danger around us is, and the danger is completely real. Our government must clearly formulate foreign policy and must clearly formulate how it will protect our Republic and our citizens from this danger. If we now reserve the right to disagree with sanctions against Russia or parts of Russia, if this does not correspond to our interests, it may happen to us that in the future someone else will reserve the right not to care for our defences, for example, if it does not correspond to his interests. On the standard issues relating to the EU and our positions within the EU, we have become accustomed to the fact that the Prime Minister will almost always take the position that Europe is asking for. Paradoxically, however, in a matter that is absolutely crucial, the Prime Minister behaves quite the other way around. This is an absolutely fundamental position affecting our safety! It is not possible to publicly question the readiness of European countries to adopt sanctions at a time when it is not yet clear what sanctions will actually be. If the Prime Minister had reservations, he would communicate with his partners in particular and then speak with them in a united manner. The sanctions do not only have specific economic impacts, but also have symbolic and psychological effects. And if we have already shown at the beginning that we are not strong enough and determined that we will still consider whether it will touch us too much and examine whether it is beneficial for us now, we have fundamentally weakened the very meaning of sanctions. This, of course, weakens our security, and that is unacceptable! Sanctions may not be the best solution, there may be other solutions, but the Prime Minister cannot behave in such a way that he does not offer any alternative, and at the same time, before the specific parameters of sanctions are on the table, say that we may not agree with them, and then brag about how beautifully we negotiated it and that it is not actually happening so much. Foreign policy and security issues related to it are not just some negotiation of exceptions to EU rules, it is not a game of who negotiates better conditions within the EU in one or another area and thus gains some advantage at the expense of others. The conflict in eastern Ukraine is extremely dangerous, not just for Ukraine itself, but for the whole of Europe. Not just because he can get somewhere. We cannot close our eyes to him and pretend that nothing is happening and negotiate with exceptions so that sanctions hurt us less than our partners. For the Czech Republic, this conflict is in many ways even more dangerous than for some of our partners in the EU. Just remember our postwar history and realize how close the Ukrainian-Russian border is to us. For example, imagine the wave of refugees that would undoubtedly come to the Czech Republic in the event of the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine. Are we ready for this? If we want to prevent this, if we want to help resolve this conflict by peaceful means, then we must be strong, determined and united with our partners. Whenever Western democracy had progressed differently, it turned out wrong. We certainly do not call for an escalation of the conflict with Russia, and we would rather see diplomatic solutions, but those can only be achieved by being able to clearly formulate our interests, the goals we want to achieve, and by showing the strength to enforce them. We can do this together with our Western partners through uncompromising economic sanctions, and this clear and strong position by the Prime Minister is simply weakening. I have a question - this is the first European league to be announced by ČSSD candidates in the election campaign on billboards? If so, thank you very much, but this first league, I'm not interested! And I guess our first league already thinks it's theirs in Brussels. How else are we supposed to explain the portfolio that's finally left over on Mrs. Jourová? It is, I think, a nice, rather ugly example of diplomatic skills, rather of the Prime Minister's incompetence. And there you can only say with Cimrman: This is such a nice dot behind our case. I would like to use the moment to conclude the procedural proposal to act after 19 and 21 hours. Thank you. They acted and voted after 9:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u45	This is, of course, a procedural proposal that can be voted on. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on Mr Holeček's procedural proposal for us to act today and vote after 19 and after 21 o'clock. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? It's vote number four. 97 Members and Members registered, for 20, against 55. This proposal has not been adopted. I'm just pointing out that it's a meeting day, it's not a law, so we're definitely going to be negotiating after 7:00. The House's meeting day ends at 9:00 p.m. Another duly applied for by Mr Holečka is Mr Marek Ženíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, first of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for at least trying to explain his position and how it actually took place in Brussels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u47	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to ask my colleagues to remain calm. Those who speak, ask them to go to the galleys to lead their calls. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. However, I fear that not only me but others have not convinced by their statements and that they still do not understand the nature of the whole problem that we are talking about. When he bragged about the fact that he saved Czech exports and that it was the main result of the Council of the European Union's negotiations, I remembered a British prime minister from the past who, when returning from Bavaria on a plane back to London, waved such paper at the airport and claimed to bring peace to the UK. He was very wrong. It is clear that the entire situation in eastern Ukraine is the result of the aggression of one country and the unwillingness of Evropan, respectively. Their governments, in our case the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, have taken a much stronger position on the situation, and I believe that this position should have been defined in particular immediately after the annexation of Crimea, which was somehow very quietly forgotten. And if you don't understand, then you're really the fifth column we've talked about here. Of course, it would be enough to resolve this situation permanently if Putin had returned Crimea if he had apologized if he had guarded the borders as he should, so that they would not be as leaky as a colander in some places, and not to send his soldiers on vacation to Ukraine and to pack tanks for their journey. But that's not gonna happen. No one here believes that. So we only have one left, and those are the sanctions mentioned. But in order for President Putin to believe for a moment that we are absolutely serious about the sanctions and that he may not get away with it so easily, and he stops, Europe must stand up for a united and strong position and convince Putin that he is absolutely serious. I am afraid it is our government that is contributing to this position that President Putin does not take this position seriously at all. We probably agree that there is a huge difference, and I firmly believe that the Prime Minister will also agree to this, between when I send a signal to whom I want to convince or force him to do something about it, that the possible rescue of a part of Czech exports is not an appropriate price for abandoning a harder or more forceful position, and then by screaming to all parties immediately after the summit, that sanctions are yes, but must not harm a part of Czech exports and that we are actually terribly afraid without knowing what sanctions will actually be. So far, the classical diplomatic solution has brought nothing, and Putin has mocked him with his actions so far. No one wants the armed conflict between Europe and Russia either. So all we have left is sanctions. If anyone knows a better solution, bring it in. But I don't consider doing anything to be a solution, and I think we can agree on that. Prime Minister Sobotka continues to perform triumphantly only with the fact that he managed to protect Czech engineering exports. I consider this position to be very unhappy and even cowardly, and because I think we should demonstrate unity and determination, not shouting into the world that we have actually managed to stop something. We should not look only at our own borders, but we should also contribute our little bit to protecting international law even far beyond the borders of our Republic, and I believe that in this case it is expected from us, the Czech Republic, with the experience of Soviet occupation, with the experience of integrating into the Soviet sphere of influence than, for example, from Portugal, Ireland or the Netherlands, which do not have such an experience unlike us. The difference between us and Vladimír Putin's government is that he can convince the public or even his oligarchs that sanctions are worth holding out for. But if sanctions are increasingly interfering with the living excesses of his oligarchs, I am convinced that it will become increasingly difficult for him to convince them of the accuracy of the matter. That is why it is absolutely important that Europe should not be lulled into a truce, and I do not agree with stopping the next round of sanctions, as perhaps the Prime Minister has suggested, and I am very concerned about the Prime Minister's position when he claims that it would be appropriate to show Russia good will if the ceasefire lasts. Do we no longer mind the presence of Russian soldiers in Ukraine, even though they are officially on vacation? So we don't mind, Prime Minister, that Russia is violating international law? We have no problem at all that Putin has cut part of Ukrainian territory, I mean Crimea without any consequences? Probably not. The whole point is that either we want to help Ukraine, but then we have to act and not look at how much it will cost, or we just don't want to be solidarity with Ukraine. Either we acknowledge Russia's claims on its sphere of influence, then I understand the arguments that Putin has the right to the Crimea and the entire Ukraine, or we do not recognise it, but it is necessary to act. Europe, and I am sorry to say, with the help of the Czech Prime Minister, is trying to go some third way, which does not really exist, because we are unable to define what we want to achieve. President Sobotka's policy is aimed only at the voters of social democracy, perhaps the voters of the KSČM. The position of the government coalition should not, however, have purely party boundaries, but should, above all, correspond to the position of the Czech Republic. But if the government is really going to continue to hold on to that restraining attitude, then I, too, am very ashamed of it. [[19.00 hours]] The Prime Minister agrees with the sanctions, but he's running to the first microphone to assure his constituents that he's not all of them. When there is finally a consensus, once again, on the first opportunity, one of the first to announce that sanctions would not have to apply immediately. It is the same as when the Prime Minister knew very well and knows that we are members of NATO, but without anyone asking him about it and considering it, he immediately assures his member base in the media that no NATO troops will be deployed with us. Or if I were to use the Prime Minister's latest statement that NATO could not provide any military assistance to Ukraine, or it would lead to World War III. I think that after this statement, President Putin made a kind of red dot in the Czech Republic and made sure that he could not expect any threat. I am afraid that your party, Prime Minister, has failed for the second time in the European Union, very strongly. At first, it was five years ago that you placed your party interests above those of the state when you knocked down the government during the ongoing Presidency. And now, for the second time, when you are unable to take an uncompromising stance on Russia's aggression and promote it in the European Union. It has been said here many times, I also agree. Yes, sanctions are a slow weapon, and even if sanctions do not change the Kremlin's access to Ukraine visibly, they have an impact on the Russian economy, which is the path we have chosen for political pressure and which you, as Prime Minister, have agreed to. The protection of part of Czech exports can be of no use to us in a few years if someone in Moscow, for example, thinks that he could connect the Kaliningrad region with the Russian Federation through Belarus and Poland after linking the Russian Federation with Crimea through Ukraine. Or even a small Baltic Republic can be connected back to its empire. The costs will then be much higher than those of the said loss of Czech exports. After all this time, it's all about us all together - and I expected it from my government - sending a clear signal to Moscow that we simply didn't. Instead, we hear from the Prime Minister that we are actually afraid of Russian reprisals, and that it would even be better if we didn't implement new sanctions immediately, and from some officials, we even hear that sanctions are actually stupid and that it is important that we are not stupid. Well, it's about who, Minister Mládek, you're not present. Prime Minister, you think you succeeded in Brussels, I don't think so. I therefore want to propose in a detailed debate a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies that would satisfy all of us who believe less in the Russian Federation than NATO. Those who simply prefer Russian tanks in the Russian Federation rather than Ukraine. And all of us who are aware of the threat that Vladimir Putin and the indecisive governments in Europe represent to us. Thank you for your attention. . [[Applause from the TOP 09 benches]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u49	I thank Mr Ženíšek, and now I have a shrink of factual remarks. First of all, Mr Foldyna, after him Mr Benešík. After that, Mr Mackovík and Mrs Zelienková. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u50	Mr President, thank you for your word and through you to your colleague, who has spoken here: who you do not understand, you are the fifth column. I don't get it, and I don't consider myself a fifth column. I don't even consider sanctions to be something that they're dealing with. If I had the only proof that the Czech sanctions or sanctions of the European Union or sanctions of the world would save people in Ukraine, that they would save people so that they could live in peace, that there would be no war, yes, I would immediately agree to this! But experience with the sanctions we've witnessed in history shows us that this is complete nonsense! That's the demagogy you call here! You, my colleague, are told from these places in the Chamber of Deputies about modesty. Fifty-five thousand wages, it's good advice for these people to cut back! Freedom costs! Then go to Varnsdorf! Go tell those TOSKA people who lose their jobs, that they're supposed to cut themselves loose, that they're fighting for freedom! Again, if it were true that the sanctions had any meaning, you might march with those people. But I'm convinced that if you go to that TOSKA today, they'll drive you, that you can't even run to Prague!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Next, Mr Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u52	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Since a proposal has already been made here, namely and knows that a resolution will be presented to the House, I would like to inform you that the Committee on European Affairs, which, of course, deals with the situation in Ukraine in its competences, unlike the foreign committee, has adopted the resolution systematically and in the long term. In the light of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on European Affairs shall replace the House plenary on these matters. I am only allowed to read this resolution for information - I am not reading the motion for a resolution - just for your information. It was a resolution on information on the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the proposal for a second wave of sanctions against Russia by the European Union. The Committee on European Affairs 1 condemns Russia's continued aggressive behaviour in relation to Ukraine; 2. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to consistently defend the security interests of the Czech Republic in agreement with Western democracies. Further: Notes information on the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the proposal for a second wave of sanctions against Russia by the European Union; 2. Considers it a necessary diplomatic solution to the current situation in Ukraine based on respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence of Ukraine, including the full use of sanctions in accordance with the interests of the Czech Republic; 3. Calls on the Prime Minister to act in full agreement and unity with the position of most EU Member States in the forthcoming negotiations on sanctions against Russia; Finally, it asks the Government to inform it of the progress of the discussion of this proposal in the institutions of the European Union. That is, for the sake of information, of the House plenary, that the resolution was adopted. I've read the lyrics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Another point of fact is that of Mr Mackovík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u54	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, we are hearing a lot of criticism here about how the government has not bent over foreign interests and little running around totem with hamburger in hand and acting differently than expected. I think it was not so long ago that before the elections, what would be done with the Paskov mines and the number of unemployed people, and now we have learned that we should have adopted sanctions that would still have no effect on the Russian Federation or anyone, and it would have cost us 8 billion. I don't think it's intended to run a policy the way the ODS and TOP 09 run it, which, if they want, criticizes the government that there's a deficit of 112 billion. Then he criticizes it again when the government does not want to increase the deficit by 8 billion. I think sovereign state policy doesn't look like we're bending and doing what somebody's telling us just because we're supposed to look aesthetically nice in that policy. I believe that this decision by the government that you're buying into pieces here was a decision by a sovereign state or a sovereign prime minister. Not with everything this government does, I can or may not agree to, and I agree with everything or not. But at present, I think this measure is an asset to the Czech economy and should be free of ideological postulates. I haven't heard here all this time that an Azov unit is fighting in Ukraine, using the SS Das Reich division from World War II. Is that where fascists fight for what you call democracy? Did democracy in the European Union bend like that? That's how she twisted it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u55	I thank Mr Mackovík. Another factual point, Mrs Zelienková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would have responded to the previous speakers here. I really do not understand politicians who talk about the fact that sanctions have not succeeded. I ask these people to realise that sanctions are indeed the most powerful political tool at the moment that the Western world can use. And that this instrument leads to a goal. At this point, Russia has exhausted its aggression and has reconciled with the territory that has so far occupied. And when we say at this point, it means that the pressure on Russia must not subside. [[19.10 hours]] President Putin has convinced us all this year that he has no doubt about the correctness of his aggressive policy and is proud of it. As much as we are therefore seeking peace, a return to internationally valid borders and a restoration of friendly relations with all the participating states, Russia alone, we must be realistic. We found ourselves in a Russian military game, ladies and gentlemen, which constantly surprises us and condemns us from naivety. We must face this by all the political means at our disposal. We must be prepared for the next steps that will show Russia our opposition and our determination. In addition to the willingness to think again about defending our state and our allies, this must also be the willingness, if necessary, to introduce further sanctions and to bear the economic difficulties that this will bring. Because, unfortunately, we have no choice at this time. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, Mrs Zelienková. This has exhausted the factual remarks and another duly applied for is Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u58	Hello, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Government and colleagues. For one thing, I wanted to thank the Prime Minister for launching the general debate because I thought we would never get to the floor again. And I submit that I will propose to the resolution that we fully support the implementation of the parliamentary elections in Ukraine, as well as the House getting the position of government in committee on time to negotiate with them at strategic summits. And I hope I don't get the answer I did when I proposed an increase in the defense budget in March. It's just an introduction. It is clear from the debate that the debate on the conflict in Ukraine and the behaviour or progress of the democratic West towards this conflict is to a decisive extent a debate about ourselves. You can see it here in the House, you can hear it here. Let me, therefore, make very briefly mention only three points. And since I'm gonna be cutting back, let me have a bit of a punctuated speech. First, about the nature of the conflict and the war in Ukraine. Second, what this conflict does to us and how it affects us. And thirdly, what we can do with the conflict in Ukraine. The nature of the war in Ukraine. The Ukrainian conflict is not a conflict between Ukraine and Russia, but between Russia and democratic Europe on the principles of international law, the right to self-determination and legal relations. Whether they will abide by literal law and respect for it, or by armed force and the possibility of violating the law militaryly, anecting the territory of a foreign state and redoing borders. That is why this is a dispute between the European rule of law and the Russian right of ruler. This dispute is taking place on the territory of Ukraine, and it is heading through Ukraine towards us and the entire European Union. That needs to be realized. At the same time, as the official actions of the Union and the Alliance state, the European Union and NATO's long-term strategic partnership with Russia have become a strategic threat to the essence of the functioning of our world in its legal sense. And now let's ask three critical questions. Can we have the slightest hope that territorial compromises and acceptance of Crimea's military anšlus and border shifts will stop the war and open the way to the rule of international law instead of further will and use of force? Does any regional historical experience justify this? Can a voluntary change of Kremlin policy and resignation be expected for further use of force? In today's situation, who is looking for compromises, and who is looking to offer compromises to further destabilize the neighbor and gain control over his border territory? And can it be hoped to implement fair international trade in terms of destruction of international and internal law? Has Russia become more commercially attractive to the conflict? Predictable? Trusted? The runaway of foreign investors, the fall of the ruble and the rise in inflation give the opposite answer. So where's our position, and what's the conflict doing with us? Our international performance reflects and balances our national opinional disquieting, if not the disparateness of Czech politics and cannot be ignored, that there is a confusion of Čech, a loss of geopolitical pull and our ability to integrate talks and speculates abroad. Incoherence or complexity of the formation of this position can also be documented in the vote of KDU ministers in the Government. Yes, we are not in continuity with the geopolitics of Václav Havel and the entire first generation of dissident politicians who were clear about geopolitical orientation, which they acquired in the communists of the segregated ghetto and in the crime scenes. However, we are in continuity with irrational Euroscepticism and proverbial crutulantism. In this House, too, there are Members who were willing to legitimize Crimea's anšlus. Even in this House and in its benches, there are false arguments from Kremlin. Even the government benches sometimes raise doubts about the purpose of sanctioning Russia by the European Union or the strengthening of integrity and the need to strengthen NATO's integrity and defence capabilities and our defence spending. Therefore, we must also say in this House that since the EU membership, the Czech Republic has received more than CZK 1000 billion of structural assistance from the European Union, but in particular has ensured its international position and credibility for investors in multiples, especially thanks to the Member States' anchoring in the EU's legal environment. So is it worth supporting and defending this legal environment? Nothing good or enriching or uplifting came from the Kremlin's policy for us historically, rather the other way around. Forty years we have been looted, enslaved, deprived of control over our destiny, and a thousand times deceived by the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, which served everything but this country and its citizens. I understand that many are scared and do not want to go into a risky, painful, and possibly costly fight to maintain and apply international and our law. It will be long, it may take a long time, maybe until the Russian Imperial doctrine ends and Vladimír Putin does not personally leave the Kremlin. Of course, it's the Rus themselves, not ours. So what is the alternative to economic sanctions? What results do we have so far with regard to the settlement of the territorial situation and the departure of Russia from the occupied territories in diplomatic efforts or peace meetings in Minsk? Has Russia's behavior changed? Has Russia listened to the challenges of the Council of the European Union? Did the rebels access the scene of the tragic impact of a downed aircraft so that tragedy could be investigated? So what do we want? The aim of our Union procedure should be synergy and solidarity, and if we do not understand Poland's or Balt' concerns, let us keep quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u59	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I am very sorry, but it is a very serious matter that the Member here is speaking. I'm gonna ask you to calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u60	I mean, if we don't understand Polák and Balt, let's just shut up. Nevertheless, I believe that the restoration of dialogue and cooperation in the Visegrad Group as the second most exposed region in the Baltic region is also in our interest. As far as Ukraine is concerned, the successful implementation of the parliamentary elections throughout Ukraine can be considered strategic in particular. The restoration of the Ukrainian Parliament's democratic mandate will strengthen its legitimacy, Ukraine's sovereignty and the Government's mandate. The failure of the elections would seriously bring the risk of collapse of a state that would mean armed chaos and anarchy. As far as the Kreml is concerned, it must be noted that any exfoliation of the common position of democratic states brings Europe closer to the escalation of military violence. And there's no way he's gonna bring us anywhere near business as usual. Similarly, the willingness to recognise the annexation of Crimea or Eastern Ukraine would bring Europe closer to the parallel of Molotov-Ribbentrop's agreement on the division of Poland, and perhaps we do not want to get there. The principles of international law can only be abandoned once and definitively, because credibility disappears. As far as we are concerned, I believe that the volatility of the Czech position is due to two circumstances. Firstly, we do not have a strategic dialogue on our international position, rather we argue, and if, as some claim, our geopolitical orientation has exhausted, including, for example, the promotion of human rights, we need to talk about what is an alternative. I don't suppose anyone would have thought of abandoning international law after human rights. As a result of the crisis, the weight of the Member States of the European Union has increased significantly compared to the Union institutions. The Union is now vitally dependent on the internal stability of each Member State, thereby increasing enormously the responsibility of this House - and I stress this House. In such a situation, I do not consider it appropriate or right that the Czech delegation went to both key summits without discussing the position and procedure of the Czech Republic in the relevant committees or with a separate resolution of these committees. We are to a large extent substandard and unique in this respect and we pay for this by errors in international procedure. It would also be good to change this practice, because we may not have to convince each other about the importance of a broader political parliamentary consensus abroad and defence policy. I therefore propose: we support the implementation of planned parliamentary elections throughout Ukraine with the maximum participation of OSCE and European Union observers and without military interference with their progress and military interference with Russia. We consider the restoration of the democratic mandate of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Government as a fundamental legal prerequisite for the democratic self-determination and further development of Ukraine. Two. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends to the Government a timely discussion of key documents, opinions and policies in the competent committees of the House, particularly in the areas of foreign policy of the European Union, defence agendas and NATO. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u61	I thank Mr Gabal. I ask that the text of the resolution be addressed in a detailed debate. Then I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Kalousek, then Mr Chalupa. First of all, Mr Chalupa's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u62	Good evening. Please, I will respond here to what has fallen. Just because I'm not fully identified with sanctions doesn't mean I like Russian tanks. First of all. Two. I am far from a definite condemnation of sanctions as such. I am certainly in favour of sanctions that will affect Russia's military capabilities, clearly. As far as normal trade is concerned, there is doubt and I fear that the result of sanctions, if applied in full and in full hardness, will be the so-called Pyrrhův victory. In the end, you won't see who's the winner and who's the loser. As far as solutions are concerned, I think, in particular, that the Alliance and we as part of the Alliance should seriously consider increasing the defence capabilities of the Army of the Czech Republic and the Alliance as such, strengthening the economic strength of the European Union, actually waiting for Ukraine to recover economically, and allowing, as has been said here, under international supervision, people to make order for themselves in Ukraine. To rush into a conflict with a completely insensitive diplomatic approach to Russia and drive it into a really military conflict seems insane to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u63	I thank Mr Chalupa for his point of view. Mr Sklenák de facto comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would like to make a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting until next Tuesday, September 16th, at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u65	A counterclaim for a procedural proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u66	Not a suggestion, a reminder, Mr. Ambassador. When we told you that we agreed to the agenda for today's meeting, we also asked you if you would agree to discuss it today. You promised you would. We've been counting on your word. That's the word I'm referring to now. Vote all you want, but if you translate this meeting by Tuesday, I will personally, as Chairman of TOP 09, consider you the president of the CSSD Club as a backstabbing man who has broken that word. [[Dissenting voices.]] Who violated the word and filed a procedural motion contrary to our agreement without warning me in advance. And I think this must sound public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u67	Mr Sklenák on his procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u68	I am very strongly opposed to such words! I'm no cheater, and that's not what we agreed on! Prime Minister, you lie here repeatedly!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u69	There's been a procedural motion that... [[Voices from the hall: Vote without debate.]] Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u70	Your hysteria, my colleague, convicts you of your guilty conscience. Vote all you want, but you risk not believing another word from now on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-001-001.u71	We will now vote on Mr Sklenák's procedural proposal to interrupt this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by Tuesday at 18 o'clock. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a five-order vote. Registered 113 Members, for 81, against 19. This procedural proposal has been adopted. I therefore adjourn the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Tuesday, 16 September, until 18 o'clock. Have a good evening.
