ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-002-038.u1	38. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and organised crime, signed on 12 September 2013 in Sarajevo/the House Press 63/ - first reading I ask the Minister of the Interior to give the opening statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-002-038.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the Treaty is to provide the police and customs authorities of both States with the necessary legal framework for effective cooperation in combating all forms of crime, to lay down the basic rules for its direct contacts and the principles for the management and transmission of information between them. At present, cooperation between the Czech and Bosnian-Hercegovin police authorities is not regulated at bilateral level. The Western Balkans region is very important in terms of the needs of the authorities responsible for combating crime and the negotiation of police cooperation agreements with the countries of the region is currently one of the priorities of the Ministry of Interior in the international field. As a standard, the Treaty contains a demonstrative definition of the scope and forms of cooperation, the basis being the exchange of information. It also regulates, for example, the possibility of broadcasting police liaison officers and cooperation in the field of training and education. The contract shall also provide for the authorities responsible for its implementation, the standard arrangements for requests for cooperation and the possibility of refusal thereof, as well as for the transfer and protection of personal data and classified information. In the area of the transfer of personal data, the contract reflects the fact that the Czech Republic is part of the Schengen area. Therefore, last year, an important change in the sharing of information transmitted by the Bosnia-Hercegovinist party with other Member States of the European Union, respectively, was promoted by the Czech Party. Schengen area within the Schengen Information System and other databases under European law, in principle without the consent of the other Contracting Party. The Treaty is, from the point of view of the national legal order of the Czech Republic, a treaty of the so-called presidential category, which will be submitted to the President of the Republic for ratification by the two chambers of Parliament after the agreement and ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-002-038.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading was Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, who is not here. I have been informed that Mr Holík will represent him, but we will have to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that Mr Holík be the rapporteur, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 44. Registered 151, for 135. Ambassador Holík, you have been given high trust in the Chamber of Deputies. Please take your role as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-002-038.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Government, colleagues, a government proposal has been tabled here by the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and organised crime, signed in Sarajevo on 12 September 2013. I recommend that this contract be ordered to the Foreign Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-002-038.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate, which I am at the same time ending. If the gentlemen - the Minister and the rapporteur - do not want final words, then we will deal with the draft of the commandment. There was a motion for a commandment to the Foreign Committee. I did not notice any other proposal and we can therefore vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that this press be directed to the Foreign Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 45. Registered 154, for 141, against was 1. I therefore note that we have ordered this proposal to the Committee of Foreign Affairs. I'm done with this point. Thank you to the rapporteur. Opening point number
