ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-008-055.u1	55. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Protocol on the Amendment and Supplement to the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on legal assistance provided by judicial authorities and on the adaptation of certain legal relations in civil and criminal matters of 29 October 1992 and its Final Protocol signed at Uherské Hradiště on 29 October 2012 /Household printing 110/ - Second reading Again, I ask the Minister of Justice Helena Válková to justify the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-008-055.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this is really the most important, I think, a treaty that you will be examining today in the area of criminal law and, if necessary, approve. Moreover, it is a treaty that has long been waiting for this act. In particular, it is the Protocol amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on legal aid granted by judicial authorities and the adaptation of certain legal relations in civil and criminal matters of 1992. The final protocol was signed on 29 October 2012 and only on our side because of the political events that then took place it has not yet been ratified. Otherwise, cooperation in the area that I am talking about here between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic has been very high in the long term. So if I were to briefly just recapitulate: mutual assistance in the application of the Institute of Cooperation in Criminal Matters will be provided to the extent and under the conditions and in the manner laid down in the relevant multilateral conventions, unless otherwise provided in the Treaty. The aim is to simplify, implement and supplement national legislation adopted in particular with a view to implementing legally binding acts of the European Union. The Protocol sets out the general principle of direct contact between judicial authorities in the provision of legal aid, which is very important. The exception is only those cases where criminal proceedings are transferred for which the relevant rules of law allow a sentence of more than five years in prison to be imposed. The Protocol also provides for an exception to the general principle of speciality in the issue and transfer of persons. And here I would like to stress that this principle is not broken to its own citizens and in certain specific cases, if the independent court so decides. The transfer of sentenced persons extends the protocol, their heading, so that they can now be transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State, as well as sentenced persons who are not nationals of the other Contracting Party, but who are permanent residents of the other Contracting Party. The Protocol also provides for situations where cross-border monitoring is carried out solely using technical means of tracing movement without the assistance of the other Contracting Party. It lays down the procedure and conditions for monitoring the consignment, obtaining evidence in criminal matters using an agent or through a pretend transfer, cooperating in the form of joint investigation teams, or even transmitting classified information. It is a precise determination, a detailed adjustment of these conditions. The protocol is in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. It will certainly further deepen and improve the already good, as I mentioned, international judicial cooperation with the Slovak Republic. It is, of course, conformable with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic and with the law of the European Union. Implementation of the Protocol will be under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. We do not expect increased expenditure on the state budget and we hope that the volume of legal assistance provided between the Czech and Slovak judicial authorities will be roughly comparable. Of course, we cannot now predict whether the protocol will lead to a greater burden on the Czech judicial authorities in the wider sense of the word or the Slovaks. That's what practice's gonna show. Thank you for your attention and please consider this very important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-008-055.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Helena Válková and the rapporteur of the foreign committee of Mr Václav Zemk, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 110/1. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-008-055.u4	Thank you for the floor. The Minister has submitted quite extensive information, and I will just add that the Foreign Committee discussed this House press at its meeting on 15 April and recommends the following resolution to the Chamber of Deputies: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Protocol on the amendment and addition of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on legal assistance provided by judicial authorities and on the modification of certain legal relations in civil and criminal matters of 29 October 1992 and its Final Protocol signed in Hungary on 29 October 2012.' That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-008-055.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene, that's not the case. I'm done with the conversation. We will proceed to the vote on the proposed resolution, which we have heard from the rapporteur, in the vote on order number 62, which I have launched, and I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 62. Of the 121 Members present for 98, against no one. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur, and I end at item 55. I see an application with the priority rights of the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-008-055.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I know that President Hamáček has already written to all the committee chairmen, committees and other bodies of the House before, so that they do not convene meetings during the Chamber of Deputies. I would like the House's leadership - we don't have a representative - to make a strong request once again. It is not normal for the Opencard Commission to meet today, at the moment when we are discussing contracts and other important points. They just have to find other days, not those in the Chamber of Deputies. In the morning, the budget, today's economic committee, something here, they're at least about breaks or before or after the opening of the day, although it's not very comfortable for us, Members of the Chamber of Deputies. But to meet directly during the meeting day, and I would say, quite an important commission, I think that is not normal and the House leadership should intervene. We don't have anyone to make excuses for here, that's what we do to ourselves, we Members. It doesn't complicate the government or the ministers or anybody else, but that's just not how it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-008-055.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no choice but to say what you said at the opening of your performance. That the President of the House has asked the Chairs of the various committees, the Chairs of the Commissions, permanent delegations to avoid being convened at the time of the meeting of the House of Meetings of other institutions. But, in my opinion, this must be realized especially by those who manage the various bodies of the House, in order not to disturb the operation of the body that is essential. Sadly, I cannot do more than that statement and appeal to those who do so, so that they do not do so next time. I'm sorry myself there's no greater presence in this room. [[12.10 hours]] I'll start point number
