ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u1	11. Government bill on medical devices / House print 87/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, this proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health, Mr Svatopluk Němeček. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the draft law on medical devices drawn up by the Ministry of Health. The area of medical devices is currently regulated by national and European legislation. However, many cases point to an unsatisfactory situation in this area. The cases of defective PIP breast implants or joint replacements have highlighted a Europe-wide problem. We can see imperfections at national level especially in the absence of a register of medical devices, which would contain the most important information about what medical devices we actually have on the Czech market. Unfortunately, not only the lay public and the professional public, but also the competent authorities of the state administration, do not currently have this information. Furthermore, the existing legislation shows major shortcomings both from a systematic point of view and at the level of definitions and consistency with other legislation. A number of sub-areas have no binding and, above all, clear rules. An example of these circuits can be given by me. developing clinical trials or carrying out the service of medical devices. Some activities affecting the patient's safety are not regulated at all. The state of national legislation in the field of medical devices is no longer unsustainable. In the context of the media-known case of breast and joint implants, this issue has become the focus of attention in all Member States of the European Union, with the Czech Republic based on a pan-European comparison of meeting the EU's safety requirements very badly. One of the main reasons for such an assessment is the absence of functional legislation. The second is the fragmentation of regulators, since medical devices are now regulated by seven separate government bodies. The European Union places a large number of legislative and executive requirements on the Czech Republic, as well as on other Member States, which the existing Act on medical devices cannot meet. In the light of the revised issue, the proposal was developed in close cooperation with all the entities concerned, i.e. with representatives of the competent authorities of the state administration, but in particular with experts representing professional chambers, health insurance companies, professional companies, industrial associations, academic sphere and representatives of patient associations. This proposal was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies before the end of the last government's term of office, but it was dissolved before it was discussed at first reading. Given that the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law persist, the Government renegotiated the proposal at its meeting on 15 January 2014 and the proposal thus approved is again submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for renegotiation and praise. The material presented, as I have already said, is identical to the proposal sent to the previous Chamber of Deputies, and there has been no legislative change in the meantime. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the urgent need to adopt this legislation, I appeal to you with a request to support this proposal in its further legislative negotiations. At the same time, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to extend the deadline to 90 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u3	Thank you, Minister. I would now ask the rapporteur, Mr Jaroslav Krákora, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for being a little indisposed, I have the flu, so I hope you'll forgive me if I have a cough. The Minister has already said practically everything about medical devices. A comprehensive solution to health resources is a major problem of the Ministry of Health. Unlike medicines, a group of all means is a set of very diverse products. For example, medical devices are classified as medical devices. material used in medical performances, such as syringes, needles, covering material, voucher medical devices such as incontinence devices, stomic devices, glucose meters, wheelchairs, eye lenses, headphones, active implantable medical devices such as cardiostimulators, in vitro diagnostics, such as tests for blood, urine, stool, liqueur, or large instruments - X-rays, CT, MRI, PET, SPECT etc. It is therefore clear that the Act on medical devices must be linked by a systematic and comprehensive rule for medical devices. [[9.30 hours]] The state of health legislation is unsustainable both at the level of general regulation, economic regulation and so on. A number of sub-areas are not legally addressed at all. Medical devices are placed on the market, distributed and sold, including devices directly to end users, i.e. patients and other users, but this path is not adequately regulated by the existing law at all. Of course, this may pose a risk of harm to your health. Therefore, the primary problem lies not in the slim approach of the Ministry of Health or in the implementing regulation itself, but in the existing law, or in its non-specific powers provision. The medicinal product must be safe and clinically effective. A similar problem is the treatment of medical devices in areas provided by other services, such as cosmetics. The existing regulation of definitions in the existing law is completely inadequate, some of the basic terms are not contained in it at all. It is terminological disunity that causes problems in practice. An example is the fulfilment of notification obligations, where a number of distributors do not properly fulfil their reporting obligations, they are wrongly designated as importers. Similarly, the existing law does not regulate a number of activities involving medical treatment and which may affect the safety and health of patients. The essential characteristics of each medical device, as has already been said, are functionality, clinical efficacy and safety. The area of distribution and sales, respectively, needs to be regulated in the interests of clinical efficacy and safety of medical devices. However, the current regulation regulates this only minimally. One of the most pressing problems is the registration process, which is what the Minister said, respectively, the registration here. There are also serious problems in the disposal and disposal of hazardous materials and substances, in the classification of medical devices. In all cases, this concerns fragmentation of powers, coherence with other legislation. As has already been said, there are about seven areas involved, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, the State Office for Nuclear Safety, Trade Offices, Regions and so on. We actually have four options. Variant one, this is a zero option - we accept nothing, the legal status remains preserved, and thus all the negative effects of the current regulation. Of course we don't want that. We can go by option two, that's an executive solution. This means that the government would primarily address price and payment regulation, but because it concerns thousands of funds, it would be very difficult. The third option is the amendment of the existing law, but it would be comprehensive and essentially a more complex task than the new legislation. So we have a fourth option that I think is the most realistic and correct one, and that is the creation of a new law on medical devices that will be implemented and will be consistent with the European Union. It's efficient, more systematic and more transparent. In the event that the adoption of a new law would not be implemented, this is essentially an unsolvable problem for certain regulated areas. These are mainly issues of registration of persons dealing with medical devices, medical devices themselves, clinical trials, adverse events or certificates issued by notified persons. Another issue whose solution cannot be delayed is, as has already been said, economic, price and payment regulation. Another risk of not accepting a new adjustment is medical considerations. Of course, it is the safety and clinical effectiveness of medical devices. Finally, I recommend that we release this law until further reading, and I recommend that we extend the deadline by 30 days between first and second reading in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have five applications at this stage. I ask Mrs Soňa Marková to take the floor. After that, Mr Leoš Heger will be speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to briefly comment on this bill, which has been put forward quite surprisingly at such short notice, firmly. I agree, of course, in general, with the need to present such a bill, which is called for in the long term. After all, it is a market for medical devices, which accounts for almost 50 billion crowns. And the important thing is that it is the health and safety of patients. The draft law, as it was submitted to us, on medical devices, relies on the Czech Republic's transposition obligation in relation to the law of the European Union. However, it should be recalled that the last amendment to these directives was made in 2007 and 2011 and the necessary transposition of these directives, these changes to Community law, was already implemented into the legal order of the Czech Republic in 2009, 2010 and 2011. This means that we cannot agree with what the petitioners say. That means, I say that this bill is not forced by the need to implement Community law. It should also be recalled that, as the bill was presented to us by this government, it is actually from the workshop of former Minister Leoš Heger's team. And these laws, as they were presented, have already been essentially approved by the Nečasův-Time Government. When I spoke of the fact that this bill is not forced by a necessary change in Community law, but on the other hand, I dare say what experts have to say about the case law of the European Court of Justice that, on the contrary, this bill does not reflect the development of the case law of the European Court of Justice. This is another important thing that is actually being presented. The main and fundamental change that this bill on medical devices builds is the introduction of the obligation of manufacturers, importers to register selected groups of medical devices, through a newly formulated register of medical devices. Only registration of a medical device will these release the way to the market with medical devices of the Czech Republic. The remaining medical devices shall be kept under the notification regime. Once again, I would like to say that the directive does not provide for the registration of medical devices. Directive gives Member States the opportunity to request information on medical devices, but this must not restrict access to the Member State's market for medical devices. As the bill is written, it creates a risk of non-transparency, bureaucratic regulation of the entry of medical devices into the market in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, I would like to say that there will be an increase in the regulatory burden on producers and importers, as well as an increase in the number of officials who will control these matters. All the more so, there is great concern about the extreme increase in corruption in the new process of including medical devices in the register. [[9.40 hours]] For this reason, because, of course, such a law needs to be introduced, but there is a need for major adjustments under this law, there is still much to be said about this matter. A great deal of attention must be paid to this bill. That is why I support committee discussions over a longer period of time, i.e. extension of the deadline up to 90 days, and this bill must be paid really great attention, not to receive it in the form it was submitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u7	Mr Leoš Heger, Mr Hovorka, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, honourable Members, good morning. Let me make a few comments on the material presented, which was presented here in a very comprehensive and qualified manner by Minister Nemecek and the rapporteur. The law follows the Act 123/2000 Coll., on medical devices, which was a huge breakthrough throughout the agenda. He moved us to a cultivated world, but for a few years he made life very difficult for all care providers, because he had shifted our a bit of backward legislation to a modern European level, at least in 2000. What was it, I'll say a short analogy. Medical devices in hospitals and generally between health care providers have not been properly registered, have not been properly documented with the most serious medical devices, such as implants with some electrical function, or with the most difficult machines such as X-rays that can damage the patient, or with electrocauters - there was no need to possess instructions to do so, to possess any confirmation that the device works properly. The audit focused on several proven metrology tests. Thus, the law of 2000 has shifted significantly. It was like moving wildly driving cars into a regulation system where every car has to be registered, it has to have technical control and it has to have its identification mark. However, as life has shown over the next decade, it is still little, and security rules have moved on. So, unfortunately, we cannot avoid getting to the standard European rules, even though the law in 2000 moved us forward a lot and caused great wrinkles to care providers. In this regard, I think that the new bill presented here has been presented widely enough, and I also have no choice but to strongly recommend its approval. And what Mrs Marková presented here, what has been very widely discussed with both care providers and with manufacturers and distributors, and consensually adopted as legislation which, of course, complies with European legislation within the 90-day period that awaits us, can be clearly demonstrated, possibly. It's a little something that's been edited. However, I would like to say here another point of view, because it has not yet been explicitly mentioned here, or perhaps not clearly enough, that the bill was presented on two points. The first point is in the press that we have before us, number 87, and the second point was withdrawn yesterday and this is accompanying legislation, because some things have been considered appropriate to be in their original laws. For example, this includes the amendment to the Advertising Regulation Act, because it was not considered appropriate for advertising matters to be in this special law on medical devices. It is a draft law on administrative fees, some minorities of the Health Services Act and a draft amendment to the VAT Act. I consider these things to be quite minor in the context of the complexity of the legislation. But there is one more thing that I particularly want to mention at the end of this interview, and that is pricing, which is also in the deferred package of amendments to the laws and concerns Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance. And here, allow me a short exposition into the pricing of our health care industry, which has been dealt with by all previous governments over the past twenty years, which unfortunately has not been resolved perfectly and has been prepared by this current coalition in its coalition statement. Just to shed light on the importance of this thing, I still have to stress what has already been done here - that the cost of medical devices is about 50 billion. The crowns in our system. It is roughly a volume that is in order comparable to the volume that is put into medicinal products. But medical devices have multiple items compared to medications. It is a very complex matter, and therefore the law read today also contains a new approach to how this huge package of individualities will be classified, in what hierarchy of classification. But back to the price structure I want to end. And I want to end up applying to the Minister to continue to pay attention to it. Because when Nečasův' government prepared this law, it considered the chapter on pricing to be politically and in principle one of the most important things in our system. The pricing can be divided into three areas, for the sake of simplification: the pricing of medicines, the pricing of medical devices, and the pricing, which tells us how much to pay for its own medical performance without the relevant material. While the pricing of drugs, although highly criticised, was prepared by the Ministry of Health in 2008 and had a number of administrative problems that were gradually de-tuned, this price formation was now in a quite satisfactory situation despite all the problems with it, as in some areas, not quite well-tuned drug prices, in the sense that they are expensive, but also, on the contrary, shortcomings in the fact that some drugs are too cheap for the free market system in the European Union and lead to a well-known report. However, overall, it can be said that we really have a system for pricing drugs, which is completely transparent, according to the requirements of European legislation, and it is possible to appeal against individual decisions in setting prices and payments. This Act on medical devices and its part in the Public Health Insurance Act shifts legislation on pricing to the quality of pharmaceutical pricing legislation. It is therefore a very significant step forward, which is based on an algorithm other than the foundation of the price formation of medicines, but it is also transparent and is an appeal against it. [[9.50 hours]] Price formation consists in the fact that the law directly sets out a classification table on a huge number of items, setting for each group of items basic prices which are covered by health insurance. At the same time, the law provides for indications on this - any restrictions where the relevant means are not to be covered because it is not medically justified. This is a huge package of things that will certainly still be a big discussion, although it has been very laborious with health insurance companies and patient views, the views of manufacturers and importers have been consensually put together, but of course it is more than a year and it needs to be revised, so it will certainly take some time for this pricing to get into our legislation. However, I would very much ask the Minister to take this matter as one of the most important tasks. Because if we manage to solve this price formation, as it has already been well prepared, we have the whole problem of funding health care by the next step. It will then be left to complete the inclusion of resources called specially charged materials. These are the means that are used for some serious performances, such as joint implants or various splints that use orthopedics, etc., and then only the last third that is the most necessary will be left, this is pricing for the list of performances, objective pricing at the level of the payment decree and at the level of such complex systems such as payment DRG. I am just pointing out once again that what was prepared in that deferred law, the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, is a step in the right, transparent, fair direction imposed by European legislation, and again I very much ask the Minister to continue this work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u9	Before Mr Hovorka comes forward, there is a factual comment by Mrs Soňa Marková. Madame, you have the floor and your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would only like to respond to my previous speaker, who was talking about the part that was withdrawn, that is, about the related laws. Because he was talking about it as if it were some sort of marginary that isn't very important, but I would like to point out that what he was talking about, it means the money, the pricing and the payments, and the approval of these laws, as they were proposed, would actually mean an increase in the cost of medical devices by half a billion. And by blocking the possibility of austerity on the part of the insurance company, this would increase the cost again by almost half a billion. Moreover, this would be done not in the form of law, as the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms assumes, but it would be in the form of decrees. So maybe some things need to be said the way they are, not the way someone would want them to look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u11	I have two more factual points. The first is Mr Plzák, followed by Mr Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to Mr docent's ex-minister's speech. Heger. In his speech, it was said that the whole bill was consulted with patient organisations, with producers, with importers, with health insurance companies. I didn't hear if he was also consulted with the doctors. And I wonder if this proposal was consulted with the medical chamber, or what was the opinion of the medical chamber. Because this bill may lay down great bureaucratic conditions for health care establishments and private doctors, and I wonder how the medical chamber stands on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u13	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u14	Thank you for the floor. Second, the law was very widely consulted with all professional medical companies and a consensus was reached at a very high quality level. As regards Mrs Marková's remark, I must say there that, on the contrary, this proposal moves the situation in pricing to the level of the law and clearly transparent decisions against which appeals will be against which categories the medical resources will be classified, or the decisions of the SÚKL in the same regime, whether they will be classified as medical devices or not. On the contrary, I must say that the current situation is so bad that it is not even the decision-making at the level of any reasonable agreed algorithms, they did not say decrees. And I will mention only from the beginning of last year - in January 2013, the Ministry of Health dealt with a small affair affecting very unpleasant patients with colostomy and other patients needed for dental aids, because the VZP commission, which today deals with the classification of catalogs and the valuation of medical devices, proceeded very voluntarisically and to surprise the health and patient public, a proposal appeared at one time, which was unbearable and had to be changed over time. All such episodes would be changed in the future by the new pricing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u15	Yes. One more factual point, once again, Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u16	I'm sorry, I may have been misheard. I wasn't interested in the opinions of professional companies. As far as legal relevance is concerned, professional companies are like interest clubs. It's basically like philatelists, etc. I'm interested in the medical board's opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u17	Thank you. I have no further factual point, so with a proper speech by Mr Hovorka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u18	Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I can agree with the Minister and the speakers that medical devices need to be regulated in some way. That's right. But the way it's designed, I can't relate to that. I would have done such a small field trip to history, because the State Institute for Drug Control, which is proposed to be entrusted with the regulation of medical devices and pricing, was actually involved in the control of the safety of medicines by 2007 and the marketing of medicines. The amendment to the amendment to the Government's draft law on the stabilisation of public budgets suddenly came into the bill with competence to set prices and reimbursements for pharmaceuticals. Those price competencies until then were at the Ministry of Finance and remuneration, or how much the insurance company will pay from the price of the individual drug, which was done in the categorization commission. Since there was a finding by the Constitutional Court at the initiative of a group of senators, it was necessary to change this situation, since, in particular, the pharmaceutical producers of the International Association of Pharmaceutical Companies protested that the system was untransparable. So the Constitutional Court decided at that time that the system must be changed, it must be transparent and companies must be able to appeal against the decision in some way. [[10.00 hours]] The system that was created in the way I said, the amendment to the amendment, which was approved here in a very hectic way in 2007, was wrong and the State Institute for Drug Control is one of the few authorities today, in Europe I think it may be a second office that has such a high concentration of powers and competences, which means summarizing the evaluation of medicines, their categorization, price formation and payment. In addition, it is now proposed to entrust him with the powers to regulate medical devices, or the volume which, as Mr Heger said, is close to 50 billion. Crowns. It's just a matter of considering whether it's a good idea for a super office like this to actually have all possible competences for all medical supplies. It would be good if the Minister here said how many people today are dealing with medical resources at the Ministry of Health. According to my information, it's eight people. When you look at the structure of the employees of the State Institute for Drug Control, there were some 312 people in 2011 or early 2012. As of today, the number should be 468. And I'm asking: Has the necessary number of employees at the SÚKL been created first, or are they now looking for the competence and utilization of these workers? I'd like to know what's at the beginning. Whether there's an intention at the beginning, or if there's an increase in the number of people at the beginning, and now there's a demand for people. A colleague here asked if there would be any way, say, to bully doctors, if the doctors agree. I think a lot of doctors today are gonna tell you the State Institute for Drug Control when it comes, so they're gonna check everything you can. And it's not just about security. These are often formal checks, when the temperature records from the fridge are required. So then the doctor invents a program or asks the company to process a program that then creates some random numbers in some range to meet the requirement of the State Institute for Drug Control. Because if the doctor had to physically control it, or his sister, he wouldn't be able to heal. And I think that this is a very serious matter and it is not possible to end up involving state authorities that will cause difficulties for providers and become an instrument of competitive struggle. There's one very serious thing. Here in this law it is suggested that every five years a specific medical device or manufacturer must be registered. And that's another tool for corruption to be here to be systemic corruption. Because every manufacturer of medical devices will want to be registered so that he can deliver so that he can wield the certificate he has. And that, of course, is an instrument for the existence of influence. Yes, there are scumbags at the market today. Yesterday I received information from Czech biochemists who evaluated glucose meters. There's Asian scumbags that aren't measuring well or anything like that. That's in a lot of areas. But if we want to make the law, then we have to do it properly and not just do it with one super office without control of this office. Ethical commissions are proposed in the law. Every provider, i.e. every doctor, every medical facility should have an ethical commission. More formal duties! Further competence to the European Union. I do not think that these competences should be entrusted to the State Institute for Drug Control, that they should rather remain at the Ministry of Health. And if so far a few people in the Ministry of Health have been able to do some sort of categorization or regulation of medical devices, I don't know why it couldn't continue to be that way. There are certain special medical devices like breast implants and so on, where I think surveillance is in order. But there are a number of medical devices where I don't think it would be necessary for people specializing in drugs and so on at the State Institute for Drug Control. I believe that this law was prepared very quickly. I do not think that it is well prepared, and if this government is committed to transparency and transparency and wants to save money, I believe that the law should be prepared in a good, good way, and I therefore propose that this law be returned for completion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u19	Thank you. Mr Heger is reporting with a factual point of view and takes precedence. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my colleague Hovorka. If car owners have to have technical checks after two years, after four years, if they're new, then for devices that are risky in terms of possible damage to the patient - let me just remind you how many incidents we've heard over the past 20 years about burning a patient from a bad electrocauter - it's not weird. I'm sure the leukplasty-type medical devices won't have to be recertified that way. As far as the setting up of ethical commissions is concerned, this concerns clinical trials. And a clinical trial that controls the effectiveness and effectiveness of a new drug and a new medical device is a matter that may endanger the patient's health. It is a common regime that is being violated in the developing world, and it is often attacked - health care or medical devices and drugs brought from far away Asia - and also belongs to the modern world. Of course, the competences of the SÚKL can be discussed. SÚKL is an office that deals with these things professionally. And the volumes of people that are needed for these complex agendas are not appropriate to have in the Ministry of Health, which should mainly set rules, and not actively implement certain agendas. The law was not prepared in a hurry, the law was prepared for two years. And we can be criticized for not being there yet. And yet I dare to use the last seconds to comment on the account -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u21	You don't have any more, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry. Two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u22	I'm sorry. I will apply once more with an answer to the situation of the Czech Medical Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u23	A point of fact, Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u24	Thank you for the floor. For the last time, I will respond to my previous speaker. All the doctors here in the House know where we're going with our questions. The point is, because medical practice gives us signals in the direction it goes, so that when I give a civilian dimension, we don't need a technical license on an ax in a few minutes and we don't have to go with it every two years for a check-up. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u25	And once again, in fact, Mr Heger. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u26	Thank you. I'm going back to ask you a question about the Czech Medical Chamber. The Czech Medical Chamber, although not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, was part of a commentary procedure. It can be documented by people who have prepared and discussed the law. All their comments were dealt with in a positive manner by default and no significant comments from the Czech Medical Chamber were made. That there should be some sort of technical control of everyday business, I said it was out of the question. But things that are dangerous, whether they're X-ray devices or whether they're devices that threaten the patient with electrical power, so please, there's a need for this agenda. Just like no one is questioning her for the cars I used as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u27	One more point of fact. Mr. Mr. Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u28	I am absolutely not questioning the need to regulate medical devices, especially devices and the like. Absolutely. It has its meaning, and we all know that overpriced machines are bought into Czech health care. I have absolutely no problem with that. But again, here I am saying: it is necessary to look at the competence of the State Institute for Drug Control and see if it is right to transfer all regulation, all competence to the State Institute for Drug Control, and to extend it to the number of people working at the SÚKL and who are currently dealing with regulation or pricing of medical devices at the Ministry of Health. I consider that essential. Since it may not have been clear in the debate what I said, I am making a motion to return this law to work because I am not sure that this law can be corrected in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u29	Yes. I have your proposal on record and, of course, we will put it to the vote at the appropriate time. I can no longer see any factual points, so please, Mr Skalický, after him, Mr Štětina.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u30	Hello. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make some practical remarks on the issue of medical devices. It is very good that this law is here. I would like to thank the Minister, because this is a topic which has not been substantially affected for almost 15 years. We can discuss him here on the committee for two or three months, but I think it's a good thing this law is here. About two key points to the law. Firstly, it is a register of medical devices, which is actually defined in this law. Yes, my colleague Marková mentioned here that it may be bureaucratic, but as a clinical biochemist, and the glucose meters that fell here, I believe that this register must be created. We can only talk about whether the requirements for entering information into the register should be this wide or narrowed. The next point in this law is the European database of medical devices, the so-called EUDAMED, in which the European Union is pushing a little bit in quotes, but I think that we are not obliged to respect its pressure here, because, as I have convinced myself last year, the Member States themselves of the European Union place medical devices in this database very lightly, in other words, how many times they simply throw it behind their heads in quotation marks. So it is important for us, as for the Czech Republic, to have this law for ourselves, for our market and for order in our medical devices. However, I consider amendments to related laws that have been withdrawn to be significantly more important, but I believe that this year or soon, we will be on the table here, because, in particular, the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act and specifically Annex No. 3, this means categorization and payment regulation; this will be a debate in plenary and in committee. The law that we have here today is, let's say, conceptual, philosophical, but it doesn't solve price formation, it doesn't solve costs, and it doesn't solve the categorization of individual medical devices. That's what needs to be realized. And when we get these amendments of accompanying laws here to the House, it's really only then that the debate will be much more turbulent. On the other hand, I believe that there is certainly room for financial savings in prices and in the pricing of medical devices if these prices and pricing are optimally set, because you are well aware that in the last two or three years at least, the prices of a number of medical devices have been significantly reduced and changed. So I personally have this space and this annex No. 3 From the perspective of possible savings in health care, I would also ask the Minister to make this package of relevant accompanying laws available for discussion in a relatively short period of time. Thank you once again, and I recommend that this law be released at the hearing of the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u31	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u32	Thank you for the floor. I only volunteered to sincerely and admire the parliamentary tactics of the new government coalition. Yesterday we had a heated discussion about whether the laws inherited by the government had withdrawn, whether it was responsible for them or not. We agreed that these were her proposals, that she was politically responsible for them. We, because we are constructively opposed, welcome this proposal and basically thank the Minister for presenting it. We are prepared to discuss and approve it constructively. Members of the government coalition are proposing a recast. You fools want to confuse us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u33	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr. Štětina and Mr. Vyzula will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u34	Hello. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak for long. I don't like it. I always like words of substance, brief and clear. There's been a lot of suggestions, a lot of words. How does our Dawn movement feel about this and, of course, common sense? We see this law as necessary and necessary. We are not even looking at this right-handedly from the past period and so-called left-handedly from this period, but we need to have this law. If we discuss it in committees, committees and everywhere in the Chamber of Deputies, let the words of professional societies, medical chambers, patient organisations and, in no way, manufacturers and lobbyists be taken into account. There's always money! There are plenty of colleagues among us who are or were directors of medical facilities. There are many doctors who work with medical supplies today and every day, so I think we know what's going on. Corruption must be prevented. I believe that the ministers, both the present Minister Němeček and the last Minister Heger, know each other well, and if they sit down, it can be a very good law. That's what I'm interrogating for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u35	Another enrollment is Mr Vyzula. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, who is the last member of the general debate, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u36	Hello. Mr President, dear Government, honourable Members, I would just briefly comment on this proposal, because many have already been said and need not be repeated. All you have to do is give your opinion. The current situation in medical devices is really very confusing and chaotic. The remuneration rests only on health insurance companies. This law brings a certain order, in the sense that it will deal with medical resources both the Ministry of Health, where there are supposedly six or eight people to this task force so far, I do not know exactly, but it is possible, but there will probably have to be an increase. Yes. But that's a tax for delivering safe products. It will also be dealt with by the State Institute for Drug Control, which has already set up a system of administrative procedures for the pricing of medicines. Yes, there will also be some complications for the SÚKL of course. It's gonna take more people. It probably won't all be created right away, it'll take some time. But I would see the advantage of introducing a certain order into the current chaos. [[10.20 hours]] Another important thing that the law deals with is the registration of medical devices. As has been said here, it can be variously extensive and, at the same time, given that this is a really difficult issue, it can also be limited in essence only to certain types of medical devices. This could make the situation easier. But that's basically just a thought. However, I would certainly like to support the fact that the Health Committee will deal with the law, as well as the extension of the deadline to 90 days. I am somewhat concerned about what my previous speaker said, that it was the Government's bill on accompanying laws, the Act on advertising etc., which is really very important. I believe the Ministry will prepare it as soon as possible. So basically, I support this idea here, because the current chaos may turn into a certain order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So far, the last one is the Member of Parliament's Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the advantage or disadvantage of the last one to speak is that most of these things have already been heard. I would like to remind you of one crucial thing. In the form in which the law is now presented, i.e. Only his half without the implementation part, he's a bastard. Of course, we need funds to be regulated. Of course, we need a law that tells us how they will be released and tested for implementation or application in the Czech Republic, but at the same time we need everything that is in the second law. There's an extensive arcade about advertising. Medical devices are a thing that is enormously subject to advertising. It's a thing that's medically essential, because the unregulated ad says "if you use this medical device, you don't have to take medication." It is a matter that is a fundamental threat to patient care, and we will now adopt a law that will clearly define medical devices, clearly define the possibility of them being placed on the market, clearly define their control - advertising and pricing will remain in the air. Once again, I remind you of the amount of funds in medical devices and that a large part of this amount is paid by the health insurance company. If we do not solve the pricing, the health insurance company will be exposed to all kinds of pressure from the lobbyist to pay for it or it. Therefore, the law in the form in which the first part of it is, I strongly recommend that it go to the second reading. It's a matter that's extremely important. But if the Department of Health doesn't present any time soon, but doesn't immediately submit the accompanying part of this bill, I say again, it's a bastard who will, on the contrary, cost the whole thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u39	Thank you. I would also like to ask the rapporteur to speak in the debate... [[The rapporteur's gesture suggests that he wants to speak to the minister.]] Does the Minister also want to speak in the debate? First, the Minister and the rapporteur in the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the very well-founded speeches on this bill and I will try to shed light on the situation in which we stood at the Ministry of Health at the moment when two Parliamentary press have been recommended here by the last government to discuss this issue, and that is the one before you now, and the other one that has been mentioned here, among other things, the amendment to Act 48, which amended the pricing process. In my reasoning why we have acted, as we have acted, I may follow up a little on the comments that have fallen here, which Mrs Marková mentioned here, among other things. Because the adjustment, especially the pricing, was a very serious comment from health insurance companies. Health insurance companies agreed that the pricing system, as should be set according to the law that we withdrew, would be very rigid, very slow, would not be able to respond to relatively rapid market developments towards lower prices and would cause health insurance companies to cost more than half a billion, some estimates said up to 800 million. [[There's still an unpleasant noise in the hall.]] We were in the middle of a dilemma about whether or not to pull the whole thing off the press. Then, let us say, after discussing with Members across the political spectrum, I have decided that we will give this law another chance and try to remove the biggest problems in the course of its discussion. That is why we acted as we did. I believe that together, the biggest problems mentioned here will be eliminated, and the law will not only regulate the system of health resources, their categorization, but will not primarily have a negative effect on health insurance companies, because we are not in a situation where we can afford to increase costs by hundreds of millions of crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u41	Thank you. This is the rapporteur. But before they come out, please keep your voice down. I'm really having trouble understanding the performers. Mr rapporteur, please, you still have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose, firstly, the commandment to the Committee on Health and secondly, the extension of the deadline from 60 to 90 days, i.e. 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u43	Thank you. I will ask if there are any more applications for the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I assume that, by both the Minister and the rapporteur, they have already exhausted their final words in the debate, so they do not ask to speak separately. It's not like that, so we've got it all figured out, too. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. Mr Hovorka suggested that the Chamber of Deputies return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I will put this proposal to a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to have the House return this proposal for completion. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 21. Registered 187, for 2, versus 98. This proposal has not been adopted. So we will vote on the commandment. Both the rapporteur and the Organising Committee, in rare agreement, have proposed ordering the Health Committee. I have not noticed any other proposals, so I will have this commandment voted on. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that we order the Health Committee. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 22. Registered 187, 170. This proposal was adopted. And there was a proposal that the time limit for committee discussions should be extended to 90 days. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 23. Registered 187, 170, no one. I note that we have ordered this law to the Health Committee and the deadline has been extended to 90 days. I'm ending this item and handing over the proceedings to the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-003-011.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before we proceed to discuss another point, allow me to present further apologies waiting on our table. Mr Adam Petr apologizes for today's meeting due to illness, Mrs Jana Lorencová for work reasons, Mr Havíř for work reasons, and Mr Bartošek will be absent at 12 o'clock for personal reasons. Between 13.30 and 15.30, Mr Farský will not be present for working reasons, and Mr Václav Votava will not be present at 16.00 for working reasons. This concludes our apologies. [[10.30 hours]] Let's move on to the next point, which is
