ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u1	135. Oral inhalation Let's start the interpellation. Mr Nykl and Mrs Adamová will be ready after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, Prime Minister, to the rest of the government. Between the ČSSD and the YES movement, there seems to be a slightly different view of the condition of health care. You basically said at a conference two weeks ago. Health 2015 that healthcare works effectively in general, so it might seem that we are actually criticizing the health system too much. I'd like to tell you what the reality is. Your Minister of Health said last week that so-called. The DRG system, these are the reimbursements of emergency care in the hospital, it stands entirely on housenumers and it will take at least three or four years for transparent and fair pricing to work. Basically, a transparent law is missing, so-called. the payment decree is so complicated that basically no one understands it, and basically there is only so-called. individual arrangements between insurance undertakings and providers. And these are three quarters of the contracts, which, of course, are uncontrollable. We're breaking the rules on overtime in health care. We have a critical education system. We have a great departure of young doctors abroad, we are rescued by Slovák, there is a risk of collapse of the system of practical doctors and doctors for children. We have overpriced purchases of devices from EU funds, where criminal charges are filed and where EU subsidies have stopped. Serious economic offences are revealed, for example, in the Hospital Na Homolce, where it appears that 3.4 billion crowns have been uneconomically carried out, where police are saving it. We have the cheapest drugs in the EU that allow us to report, and on the contrary, we have the most expensive cardioverters, defibrillators, stents, which, of course, are inefficient for insurance companies. We have unsolved billion-dollar IZIP cases, a proton center, and often morals are lacking. For example, the director of some insurance company buys an Audi A8 long for four million, and he doesn't mind. [[Time.]] I hope I've convinced you that our criticism is probably justified. The answer is yes, no, or at least partly yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, of course, when we look at the cost of health in the various countries of the world and the European Union in relation to gross domestic product, the health care we receive in the Czech Republic is relatively cheap. We spend around 7 percent of our GDP on health care. When we compare this with other countries, we are among those countries that issue less than the average in developed countries that are at a similar level to the Czech Republic in proportion to GDP. We give less, unfortunately we pay for it such things as for example. wage competition in terms of our doctors and our specialists. One part of health care, where we are saving money significantly, is, naturally, wage funds that are less than the share of total health spending in our country than in some other developed countries. When you look at the proportion of personnel costs, it is mostly around 50 percent in our country, in countries that are more advanced or as advanced as the Czech Republic, it is 55 or 60 percent that are paid on wages. This is one of the reasons why we give little, and it is not a long-term sustainable path. I, in this Chamber of Deputies, have criticised past right-wing governments for a number of actions that, in my view, have not led to a transparent procedure, and I am extremely glad that we have managed to prevent things that would make it impossible for us to do anything with health care. I would like to remind you that there was a government here that wanted to privatise health insurance companies. She wanted to transfer them to stock companies. Can you imagine what it would look like if today instead of public health insurance companies, which we can look at, which we can now legally force to publish contracts where we can deal with their operating costs if private public health companies were here instead of these public health insurance companies? This would turn out to be in Slovakia, where they hold arbitration with the government at a time when the government is trying to change any parameter from the point of view of healthcare management. It is very good that we have managed to prevent the privatisation of health insurance companies, and I am convinced that one of the reasons why our health care is so effective is that it is not privatised in terms of the segment of large medical specialised facilities such as. faculty hospitals, and that they failed to privatize health insurance companies. That is why at this point, the government can have tools to improve the effectiveness of health care. I will certainly not contradict some of the examples that have been given here because I myself have criticized them in the past. I want to mention for example. The strange privatisation of the tissue centre in Brno in the faculty hospital that I criticised, and I still do not understand why the state instead of investing money in research and development in this area itself, and we know for ourselves how many billions have been distributed in this area from EU funds in recent years, so instead of investing the money in the state, and the money had, there were funds from European funds, so instead the tissue centre was privatised and it was said that the private entity was able to use funds to support research and development. There were a number of steps that weren't right, and I think now we have a great opportunity to look into it. What I consider important is rational decision-making from the point of view of placing expensive instrumentation. Of course, it is one thing to compete here, so that the instruments do not supply one, two companies tops, but that there are open selection procedures for their acquisition, but it is equally important that the instruments are deployed rationally, so that we do not need to have a high concentration of expensive medical equipment, which will then not be used effectively in the territory. I am glad that there is an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act in the Government's Legislative Council, that it will establish the publication of contracts for the provision and payment of paid services, which I think is a very important matter. Providing information from health insurance companies to the Ministry of Health, so that by me. The reform of the DRG was also carried out to support the system with greater, stronger foundations in terms of e.g. the number of reference health establishments. If there is a ban on recruiting insured persons, so that insurance companies do not overwhelm insured persons, if there are reduced allocations to the reserve fund, there will be a conflict of interest in the administrative bodies of health insurance companies, which are not properly treated here to this day, I think we have room to reduce health leaks. I just refuse to say that health care is a black hole, because I find it disdainful to the work of thousands of doctors, nurses, paramedics, just all those people who, under difficult conditions, are trying to make our health care work. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will ask the Member if he wishes to ask an additional question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u6	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I really only wanted yes or no, and that is because you and the Minister often look at the fact that the ANO movement is too critical of the Health Department, and I have given you 11 serious examples, and I have shown you that you must not be angry with us, that we are critical. And that's all I wanted to hear. I hope I convinced you. There were eleven of them, so you might want to read it on the screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u7	The Prime Minister wishes to use his right to react?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u8	Thank you. I think it's kind of nice that we're having this debate together within the government coalition through the institute of intercession. I just want to say that there is no dispute in this. I think the argument may be a little bit that now we have a chance to do something constructively about it. I have experienced this for many years in opposition, perhaps you do not have this experience, Mr President, but I have been here in the Chamber of Deputies for a very long time. We've been cursing around here for years, and there's nothing we could do about it. Now's the chance to do something about it. So I'm thinking, maybe it's better to talk about energy instead of cursing about things, giving it away, discussing a constructive solution. So we're talking about whether what we have on the table is the laws that we're putting forward, whether it's really the solution to the problem that's here, or whether we should do it some other way. That is why I mentioned the amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which is now on the Legislative Council of the Government, because I think we can approve a number of good rules there. We'll open the system, we'll get the contracts out. And I think the publication of contracts in the health insurance system will allow us to eliminate the protective extremes that obviously exist there. Because I have also seen in the paper overviews of basic rates that individual health care providers have in the segment of bed facilities, and it is very special. If you look at that list, there are very interesting subjects, and you ask why. Why do they have higher rates than some specialized faculty hospitals, just some private medical facilities. I very much support publishing, and I think that's a good way to do it, but it's not enough. Then let's also talk about rationalizing drug procurement, and certainly about making sure that things are not bought in an overpriced way, and that the health care system doesn't run away with the money that should stay there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u9	That was the first interpellation. With the second interview, Mrs Adamová will speak on the topic of foreign policy of the Czech Republic. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, in my interview, I would like to concentrate on your meeting with President Zeman yesterday, whom you called to clarify the foreign policy positions of the government and the President, and, above all, I am concerned about the positions on the conflict in Ukraine. I want to ask you some more concrete results than just the fact that you agreed to meet three times a year, because according to the President's spokesman's statement - which I would like to quote: The Prime Minister has not mentioned any significant differences between the President and him in the field of foreign policy throughout the meeting. So, according to this statement, I understand that your views and attitudes are more or less consistent. In that case, I wonder if you agree with the President that the conflict in Ukraine is just a kind of flu, and whether you are also leaning towards the view that it would be appropriate so-called. Finlandization of Ukraine. Did you discuss these specific things, and if so, with what result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u11	Thank you, Madame. The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, I must say that I was also surprised by Mr Ovčáček's dedicated comments, the spokesperson for the President, after the meeting, because we were sitting with the President ourselves in the office, and I did not notice that Mr Ovčáček was still there with us. So I was quite surprised that then Mr. Ovčáček commented on what Mr. President and I were talking about and what we weren't talking about. But to your interpellation, which you have, which is probably logical. First thing. I do not consider it so little that we have reached an agreement in our system of political scenes, which sometimes may seem very chaotic and very fragmented, with the President and our other constitutional actors. We agreed that there would be a format here that would allow us to coordinate the foreign policy of the state. And I'll give you an idea of what the President of the Republic agreed to yesterday. It is the idea that three times a year key constitutional officials will meet, whose responsibility is also associated with representing the Czech Republic externally in terms of foreign and security policy. The format would be the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and the Presidents of both chambers. Why the chairmen of both chambers. Because they are leading parliamentary diplomacy, that is, both the President of the House and the President of the Senate. At the same time, parliaments broadcast their delegations. So it's good that there's some sort of coordination mechanism at the top level. This group of constitutional officials would meet three times a year, but around two times a month, its agents or representatives would meet to coordinate these things at a practical level. This means, for example, not to be dubbed in terms of economic diplomacy. If the President is planning routes where business delegations will be, the Minister of Industry or Prime Minister for example, we want there to be coordination on economic diplomacy in order to save money so that we can support exports as effectively as possible. The same applies to preparations for key EU summits, to key NATO summits. Meetings should include this agenda and the aim is, although individual constitutional officials may have different opinions, different accents to unite the position of the Czech Republic on the outside. This cannot be a one-time thing in the sense that we will meet and swear that we will say the same thing now for the Czech Republic. This must be a process that is permanent and that is simply entering current events. So just so briefly about this coordination mechanism, which I also want to inform the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to see this coordination mechanism implemented during 2015 and, if it works, I think that the following political safeguards can then be used to make the Czech Republic operate on the outside in a clear way, to be a reliable and countable partner for our allies in the Union or for our allies in NATO. The second point concerns those fundamental disputes or disagreements between the Government and the President of the Republic. Indeed, there are no contradictions between the President of the Republic and the Government of the Czech Republic as regards relations to European integration as regards the views on the challenges that are before the North Atlantic Alliance today. I think this has shown both our appearance in the European Union and, after all, the work of our delegation at the NATO Summit, which took place last autumn. So there are no fundamental contradictions. Together with the President, the government is acting to support the continuation of European integration. As part of the North Atlantic Alliance, we have made it clear to provide security guarantees to Member States, which, for example, are now in that part of the world bordering on the conflict in Ukraine. That's where I think there was a match. Perhaps we disagree with Mr President in all opinions and opinions, about finlandisation, and after all, yesterday we also discussed this briefly. I believe that finlandization is not the right way for Ukraine. I think that the development in Ukraine has overcome some internal stage that could result in finlandization, and above all, I think that finlandization is something that was linked to the Cold War, and I hope that we will not re-enter the Cold War era, and as something that was associated with the philosophy of the spheres of influence that were respected, the sphere of influence that defined powers, and individual countries could not decide whether they would belong in that sphere of influence or decide otherwise about their development. So finlandization, in my opinion, is not the system that we should use today in the context of existing international policy, and I think Ukraine has the right to decide on its own future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u13	Thank you. The MP wants to get out. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u14	Thank you for your answer. But I'm more interested in it specifically. If there's a discrepancy like this, maybe here you've admitted, in the field of finlandization, or virtually. Here on this question, how will you proceed? Because it's one thing to make a deal in advance, or virtually. to consult some things, and the second thing is how you will react when the President is again in this way, in my opinion inappropriately, commenting on some things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u15	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u16	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, there are also nuances in foreign policy in other democratic states. If we look at neighbouring Germany, surely Chancellor Merkelová has other accents than the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is a member of the Social Democratic Party and is not a member of the Chancellor's CDU. There are nuances, and they will undoubtedly exist here in the Czech Republic. And undoubtedly, the President has his opinions, and maybe the government on some things, or I, as Prime Minister or Foreign Minister, will have opinions on something different. But the key is how we act on the ground of the organisations that we are members, whether it is the Union or NATO, or it needs to be the UN to be read to our partners, allies, to be a country that is understandable and consistent in terms of our attitudes. Here, I think that an honest effort to coordinate the procedures of individual constitutional actors is something that should be given a chance. Let's see if it works. I am an optimist in this regard and I believe that trying to reconcile these positions can improve the perception of the Czech Republic on the outside. However, the government is not here to act as a censor to the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic has his mandate, he has his responsibility, he should carry it out in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, just as the government should carry out its mandate in the best interests of our country. And as far as the international situation is concerned, I think it will certainly be a difficult test for us, because international risks are increasing. The security situation is getting worse in recent months and years, and it will undoubtedly put ever greater demands on the Czech Republic to be able to make the right decisions to be able to react properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u17	That was interpelation number two. As number three, Mrs Dana Váhalová will speak on a visit to Israel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, on 26 November 2014, you and other members of the Cabinet and representatives of Czech entrepreneurs completed a three-day work visit to Israel. Within these intergovernmental consultations in Jerusalem, 10 memoranda and agreements have been signed extending the cooperation of both our countries. Czech-Israeli relations follow a long tradition of friendly contacts and have the character of a strategic partnership. In this context, I would like to ask you about the concrete results of your visit, and how much this visit has contributed to the deepening of this strategic partnership and the strengthening of economic cooperation between our countries. I would also like to ask what is the position of the Government of the Czech Republic to seek recognition of the State of Palestine, because last weekend, as part of my membership of the subcommittee on the Middle East and the Arab world, I had the opportunity to negotiate with the ministers of both of these governments in Palestine and Israel, and we were often questioned about the positions of our governments and our countries. And we will also address this situation or this issue within the Council of Europe. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u19	The Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u20	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I consider the implementation of a visit to Israel a very important step in the foreign policy of the Czech Republic. We have thus followed up on the long-term agreement that exists here between the Czech Republic and Israel on a strategic partnership, which also includes the fact that government delegations in individual countries meet alternately. This means that we followed up on the previous meeting between the Czech and Israeli governments under previous governments, whether it was in Israel or whether it was in the Czech Republic. In 2013, the meeting did not take place due to the internal political situation here in the Czech Republic. I am glad that we still managed to carry out this meeting in 2014. I think it will have a practical impact on intensifying relations between the Czech Republic and Israel. I don't think I need to remind you that our relationships are due to a certain historical proximity. There is a tradition that begins with Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, continues through Jan Masaryk, through the help provided by then Czechoslovakia in the creation of Israel by supplies of aircraft and weapons that helped defend the existence of the independent State of Israel, and continued, of course, in the years after 1989. You asked, Madame, for specific results. There was a 40-member business mission together with eight ministers of the Czech Government, there was also a mission of representatives of institutions in the field of science and research. We have just made the issue of cooperation in the field of science, research, applications the main topic of the meeting of the Czech and Israeli governments, but of course we have also dealt with other areas. Therefore, research and development areas, cooperation support programmes in basic applied research, joint participation in projects under the European Horizon 2020 programme have been agreed. The possibility of sending a liaison officer for science and research to the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Tel Aviv was discussed, which would actually coordinate cooperation between our scientists and scientific institutions on the ground. In Israel, I think it is possible to draw very interesting experiences with the commercial use of research results and also with the support of innovative business. Israel has achieved very good results in this area over the long term. Health negotiations were also part of this. We would like to draw on izraelský's experience of medical cannabis medication. We would also like to provide training of Czech medical staff for this area. The possibility of exporting medicinal cannabis to the Czech Republic has also been discussed in order to improve the competitive environment and reduce possible prices in terms of availability for our consumers. Another important issue was cyber security. Here, too, Israel is one of the world's leaders. We discussed this, and there were also representatives of the National Cyber Security Centre at the NBU, sharing information and Israeli experience. We have also discussed cooperation in defence, security, including the exchange of information related to the situation in the Middle East. As you have already mentioned, Madame, 10 specific statements have been signed, including a joint declaration by the Presidents of Governments. Very briefly on the question of Palestine. The Czech Republic has long held a consistent position. We believe that it is necessary for a peaceful solution to the situation in this part of the Middle East to ensure that there are two states in peace: the State of Israel and the Palestinian State. Thus, in the horizon that will depend on the development of negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, the Czech Republic supports the emergence of a separate Palestinian state, but we prefer direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians in order to anchor future relations between these two states, because without these future relations being enshrined on the basis of direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, we do not consider it reasonable for unilateral action to be taken, for example, in what the Swedish Government has done, to be taken unilaterally recognising the existence of the state of Palestine. The Czech Government is not going to take such a one-sided step and we are ready to take advantage of the fact that the Czech Republic has a good strategic partnership with Israel, but also has very good and friendly relations with a number of Arab countries. Of course, we are ready to assist in the pressure to restore peace talks between Israel and Palestine. [[Attention on time.]] Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u21	Madame with an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Perhaps only if you could tell us which business entities were involved in this mission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u23	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u24	Thank you. I'm sorry, Madame. I don't have a list of those business entities at my disposal right now, but I think it was transparent that the list was public. For your needs, I'll ask the Office of the Government to send you a list of the entities they participated in. I just want to stress that the mission really had two parts, and I think that in the future, as the Czech Republic, we should proceed appropriately towards those countries where we can get new contacts, new experiences in the field of science, research and innovation. This means, in addition to the classic business entities, which included both the area of, say, industrial and pharmaceuticals, agriculture and the like, so there were representatives of our scientific institutions, research institutes or, for example, the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic, so that we could support the line of cooperation in the field of science and research.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u25	The fourth interview will be from Mr Herbert Pavera on the subject of a modern treatment method. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region and I am watching how, thanks to several members of the government coalition from the ANO movement, patients suffering from lower limb ischemia, the so-called diabetic leg, amputation of the limb can be threatened. Although there is a cure, even though they can be saved. At the press conference on 7 November, there were words out of their mouth that not only relied on the Ministry of Health, but first of all hit the hearts of many people, who may be taking hope of early recovery. At the conference, they questioned the treatment of stem cells in lower limb ischemia, with the fact that it is not yet a medicine based on scientific evidence, and therefore it is necessary to be very careful with the application of these methods to public health insurance. Moreover, it is argued that the state will have to pay up to CZK four billion per year for treatment by this method. According to my information, this procedure applies to a maximum of 500 patients a year. We will count up to tens of millions of crowns in costs. And I would remind you that if these patients were to be amputated unnecessarily, the financial cost would be approximately five to six times higher. In the case of 500 unnecessary amputations per year, the costs are in hundreds of millions of crowns per year. Since this situation has arisen as a result of a dispute between the two ministers of your government, I ask you directly, Prime Minister, what will you do to resolve the situation as soon as possible and the payment of this unique method has been included in the payment order in time. If that doesn't happen, how do you explain to the people whose limb is amputated, or despite the fact that there is a cure, they lose their limb? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u28	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I think we all know that progress in the field of science and research, as well as progress in the field of medicine, puts a number of moral and economic issues ahead of us. I think that what is very important is, of course, that we have a political debate on these topics, that we can express our political views, but I would prefer that experts prepare the basis for any decisions, that the documents be prepared by professional companies, that the documents be prepared on the basis of an analysis of the situation in other countries comparable to the Czech Republic, such as the countries of the European Union. We're meeting, and that's naturally logical, and we're going to have to handle the process, we're going to see that there's new treatments, there's new treatments. The chances of their application are growing at the moment when there is a chance of reimbursement from general health insurance, which was the subject of this interpelation after all. Here too, above all, these are economic issues that should be answered, and these are also moral issues that we need to be able to respond to. We have experienced here in the past efforts to obtain reimbursements from general health insurance for some treatment methods and through media pressure, media events, we have experienced a case of one treatment center here in Prague, which has obtained a preliminary contract with the General health insurance company on the basis of the decision of the forced administrator of the General health insurance company, and it has then derived its arbitration claims against the General health insurance company. This means that we have different methods and ways of getting reimbursements from health insurance for some treatment methods. I think that what is important, and we have also discussed it here today in the context of another interpelation, to set up a clear, transparent procedure that will allow economic, moral and health decisions based on all these considerations, so that it is clear that what will be financed from general health insurance is decided on the basis of pre-known criteria and that it is decided on the basis of therapeutic methods that have at least elementary support for professional companies operating in our healthcare sector. I don't want to question the question of regeneration or regenerative medicine. In our country there are a number of subjects involved in development and research in this area. I do not want to question the fact that this may be a very interesting alternative in a short time to other treatment methods, such as you mentioned the surgical method, and even here it is necessary to consider the question of reimbursement so that it is effective from the point of view of the functioning of the health system. Again, I would very much hate to see political controversy or controversy in the media, which is very often simplistic, make it impossible for us to rationally assess the suitability of the treatment of the type mentioned in the interpelation on the basis of specific medical criteria. I think there is a need for a clear, transparent process here, which will mean that if we decide to pay for any new treatment, there will be no doubt that this was the right decision within the framework of the principles on which our health system works. So I would hate for a media firefight between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health to discredit in advance unnecessarily any treatment method that might prove reasonable and useful to a large number of patients in a relatively short period of time. I am therefore in favour of calming the situation down so that we let the experts speak so that we can give them time, the opportunity to make a clear statement on this matter, and then the Ministry of Health and the General Health Insurance Office should make a final decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u29	Yes. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister. You were talking about the expertise, the validation of the method. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Dr. Václav Procházka, who leads the team at the Ostrava University Hospital, in which they can now save patients' feet from amputation, is part of the world's team of specialists, top in the field, and has achieved the highest scientific level of what can be achieved. The unverified method mentioned in quotation marks is applied in many countries, provenly according to many client studies it works and will be a fatal error if the payment from public insurance is not secured, the New Year will cease to apply to us. I would also like to ask you, I have seen here Mr. Vice Prime Minister for Science and Research, Dr. Pavel Bělobrádek, what does he say about suppressing modern medical methods, how it fits into his vision of support for science and research.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u31	Interpelations are following the members of the government, so the Prime Minister will answer for the time being.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u32	Thank you. I'm gonna get back to that particular problem very quickly. I just want to say that this is the kind of thing that we're going to meet in the future months and years all the time. There's no stopping progress, and that's a good thing. In medicine it is a thing that is very fast and intense, and it is also good, because progress in medicine gives a chance to heal other patients, who may have been unimaginable in the past. And as far as we know that we're going to have to deal with new treatment methods, it's all the more important that we have a system set up to assess these things and the moment they meet the conditions to have a chance of being funded from the general health insurance system. What must also be taken into account are the possibilities of the general health insurance system, which means that implementation must also be implemented with regard to economic limits, economic barriers. Here I return again to what was involved in the interpelation, because it can actually happen, and it may not be so distant a future that these new methods, if actually applied, will be more effective in the finals than the existing treatment methods. There's no way to rule that out. Of course, it would be very helpful if such a conclusion had been reached. However, I stress once again that I am opposed to being labeled here in order for a treatment method to be swept away here in the context of a political discussion, without any other reason, simply because, for example, its research or its development was involved in someone with whom there may be any objective or subjective reservations. I am in favour of professional assessment of the whole thing with a cool head based on certain standards and for decision making, which will be in the interests of patients of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u33	Mr Karel Fiedler's interpellation in the SÚ case, probably the State Heritage Institute, will be the fifth interpellation. [[Member Fiedler: Land.]] Better leave it to the speaker. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u34	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With my intervention, of course, I turn to the Prime Minister, and first of all, let me sum up the brief facts. The amendment to the law on property settlement with churches, House press 144, was distributed to Members on 24 March of this year. The first reading of this law took place on 20 June this year at the 10th meeting. At the 19th meeting, this meeting was suspended at second reading, and at the 23rd meeting, the current one, it is unlikely that it will again make it to the agenda of this meeting. On July 24, an extraordinary meeting took place, where, through Mr President, Prime Minister, you said, he referred us, specifically to me with my request, to the Office of the Government's website - the Government Committee on the impact of the property settlement law with the churches. How does this committee work? First meeting 11 April 2014, second meeting 6. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There is no schedule for the second half of the meeting. I ask what, then, is this committee doing, how is the control of the government going on over the extradition of church restitutions? The one where you referred us to in an emergency meeting that we should use the interpellation. As there are interpelations, where time is very short, we know. So my question is, does the government have any idea what the state of the church restitution is at the moment? And what will he do with the long-overdue deadline of June 30th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u35	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u36	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I think that the question of what with the deadlines that have been exceeded - and it is true that they have been exceeded, because clearly the State Land Office has not been prepared to implement this new round of restitution process to such extent and intensity - should be directed to the authors of the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. The bill was passed here in the Chamber of Deputies very close mostly in recent years. The bill was challenged by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court didn't cancel it. The basic framework for the implementation of the Equalisation Act with churches is the law and, of course, other applicable laws of the Czech Republic. What the government can clearly guarantee is that its authorities and its institutions, which are affected by the law on property settlement with churches, are acting strictly on the basis of the law. By its resolution of 17 March, the Government Committee established the effects of the Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies. The Government Committee is concerned with monitoring information on the implementation of the property settlement law with churches. It focuses on the way in which the law is applied so that all institutions are informed to reconcile the procedures of the State in this matter. The procedural course of any litigation concerning the settlement of property with churches is being assessed. The Committee shall also draw up and submit to the Government on a quarterly basis reports on the course of the issue of assets, the actions brought and the course of litigation in these matters. So if the question was about whether the government was informed, then I say yes, the government is informed by means of quarterly reports submitted to the government by the government committee that was set up to the impact of the property settlement law with the churches. I am convinced that the deadlines, as set in the law, have not been set realisticly, have not been set with regard to the knowledge of the matter. And unfortunately, those organizational changes that were taking place before the property settlement law with the churches began to be implemented, i.e. the changes that related to the creation of the State Land Office, which arose by the integration of two state institutions just before the process was initiated, the dismissal of workers from the State Land Office just before the restitution was initiated, all of this did not help to make the Office sufficiently prepared for such an intense round of restitution, which at this moment and this year is forced to implement. The Committee shall be kept informed of the number of calls, of the agreements concluded, of the number of agreements approved in administrative proceedings, of the agreements sent for signature. It is, of course, informed not only by the State Land Office but also by the Forests of the Czech Republic. It is informed by the Office of State representation in property matters as well as by the Ministry of Culture, some of which are also affected as obliged persons by the Act on Property Settlement with the Churches. So much information about how this process is taking place at the moment. If an appropriate amendment had been adopted, which lies here in the Chamber of Deputies - I must say that I support the adoption of this amendment - it would undoubtedly improve the state's legal status. And I must say that I regret that, unfortunately, even as a result of the approach of some Members' clubs in the Chamber of Deputies, the bill has not yet been adopted by the opposition. I would consider it appropriate if, in a short time, the Chamber of Deputies could approve the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u37	The Member has room for an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u38	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, Prime Minister, I am unfortunately going to answer you exactly as I answered you this morning: Many unnecessary words for nothing and little concrete facts. You must be joking, Prime Minister. You wrote in a letter answering my questions, which was sometimes in the first half of the year, that you were very well aware of the situation, the causes. And I guess I'm asking in vain because you follow the password and ask me what you want, and I'll answer what I want anyway. You didn't act. You wrote to me personally in that answer that you were aware of how everything was undersized, how it was wrong to suggest that you were aware of this at the end of last year. And your coalition government is absolutely inactive in this matter. I don't expect your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u39	But you will still get it, colleague, because the Prime Minister wishes to respond. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u40	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, of course, if the law on property settlement with churches had not been designed in a way that the law directly followed the treaties concluded between the State and the individual churches, it would probably have been easier to achieve adjustments to some of the parameters of this bill. Unfortunately, the legal structure that has been elected does not allow the Chamber of Deputies even after its political composition has changed after the elections to the Chamber of Deputies to amend or amend the law by unilateral decision of the Chamber of Deputies. Changing the essential parameters would require new negotiations with churches on contracts that were concluded between churches and the state. After the election of the Church, I addressed the fact that I was interested in their opinion on whether we could open this topic and discuss changes to some parameters of the Equalisation Act with the churches. I don't know if any other political party has tried to discuss this with churches. Social democracy did it. We discussed with the churches and, unfortunately, we received a negative opinion, not only from the Catholic Church but also from other churches that were a party to the state's property settlement between the state and the churches. This makes it impossible for us, while respecting the principles of constitutionality and respecting the principles of the rule of law, to unilaterally change the essential elements in the religious settlement, which are also mentioned in these treaties. An extension is a possible thing. The amendment has been here in the Chamber of Deputies for months. And I am only sorry that the Chamber of Deputies did not get to discuss it and approve it. I support this amendment, I am ready to vote for it, and it would be good if it came to the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u41	Mr Šincl's further interpelation on increasing health salaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u42	Dear Prime Minister, because of the effects of past governments and their insensitive cuts and the reduction of necessary funds in wrong places, health and social care are also in a really difficult situation. One of the consequences of this past government activity is a critical reduction in the number of personnel required to the minimum. It is common for hospital workers to be overloaded, and under these difficult conditions they try to make health care and social services work at all. All this in a situation where wages have fallen to the lowest level in health and social services of all ministries. Hospital employees and other bed facilities have not received a raise for many years, last year even their salaries fell by 229 crowns year on year. It is very warning that many health workers in case of another offer are about to leave their work for that reason. I know that you are trying to address this situation, and I also know that you were going to increase these workers' tariff salaries by 3.5 percent. Personally, I don't think that's enough. I think that these people who save people's lives every day in difficult conditions deserve a higher appreciation of their work. I'm sure there'll be word from the right that any increase in the salaries of these employees is a waste, revelry, etc. However, the total cost of increasing tariff salaries e.g. By 5%, given the amount of resources that are in the health sector, there would be nothing at all. For this reason, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you how the promises of the Government of the Czech Republic regarding the remuneration for health care work and how much their salaries will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u43	The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u44	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the government has been counting on increasing the salaries of public sector employees, including health workers, which I consider to be part of the public sector, since 1 January 2015. This year's favourable development in the revenue and expenditure of the state budget has enabled the government to extend the salary increase to a part of public sector employees already on 1 November of this year. I am saying this because this advance concerned employees whose salaries are directly financed from the state budget, which means that the government could directly increase the budget chapters of the various authorities in order to increase tariff wages from 1 November. So we have adopted government regulations. We've moved about 1 billion. CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK CZK. This concerned, for example, the employees of the financial authorities or the employees of the employment offices, but it also affected the people who work within the education department, which means that it also affected the workers in the education sector. As far as health workers were concerned, the government agreed that we would be able to implement the salary measures until 1 January 2015 in order to be able to provide funds to increase the salaries of health workers. If we were to raise salaries from 1 November as for others, we would not be able to secure the supply of funds and we could put some health care providers in a difficult economic situation. Therefore, at its last meeting, the government approved a draft regulation on the basis of material prepared by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, in which we decided to increase the tariff salaries of health workers, for those affected by the tariff table, whether they are doctors or nurses, by 5% from 1 January 2015. This decision has already been made by the government. At the same time, the Minister for Health prepares a payment decree that should ensure the transfer of funds to healthcare providers so that they have sufficient financial resources to implement this measure, an increase in tariff salaries of 5% from 1 January next year. I therefore assume that this increase should take place from 1 January next year. As far as health workers working in stock companies are concerned, the increase in salary will, of course, depend on the outcome of their collective bargaining. The government has recommended to the regions which are shareholders of the largest number of hospitals in the form of public limited-liability companies to proceed in a similar manner as will be followed by the government in facilities that are directly set up, such as faculty hospitals, where this wage measure will thus be reflected by 5%, fully starting on 1 January next year. At the same time, I would also like to take this opportunity to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the government has also decided at its last session to remove a large handicap, which concerns the remuneration of social services workers, those who are in direct action, that is, those who are directly in senior facilities, in establishments that carry out social services and take care, for example, not only of seniors but also of disabled fellow citizens, and that is to make a significant increase in salaries. I am convinced that social services workers have been very undervalued in the long term, and I am glad that, at the same government meeting where we have increased health salaries, we have also increased salaries for people who work in social services, including the increase that was on 1 November, where salaries have increased by 3,5 percent, and from 1 January they have increased by another 4 percent, i.e. a total of special social services will increase their salary by approximately 7,5 percent on average. The government allocated funds for this in the negotiation of the State Budget Act, where it was one of the priorities of the government. It was about three quarters of a billion crowns that were transferred to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that the funds for the salaries of people who work in social services could reach social service providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u45	Thank you. The Member does not wish to continue to speak, so we will continue with the seventh interview. Mrs Nytrová, on the subject of promoting economic growth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u46	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to touch on an important conceptual document, the Action Plan to promote economic growth and employment in the Czech Republic, a document which, according to the information available, has been prepared in cooperation with business and trade unions and which aims to respond to current economic needs. My question is: at what stage is the preparation of this strategic document? Could you give us more information on this document in the field of employment? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u47	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u48	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the Government has approved the Action Plan to promote economic growth and employment. It is therefore adopted at the level of the government as a whole. Before that, social partners agreed with the material. First of all, I want to say that the whole Action Plan to promote economic growth and employment was prepared partly on the basis of the social partners' initiative, but it was prepared mainly in close cooperation with employers and trade unions. We just didn't want to add any more strategy to a large number of strategies and action plans that the government already has approved, but we wanted to create a document that will be precise, targeted at the problems that we see as topical. We wanted to prepare a document that would be controllable by the social partners, and we are prepared to consistently monitor, in cooperation with the tripartite, how we will manage to remove individual barriers to economic growth. We have a document at the moment. This is called the Action Plan to promote economic growth and employment. We have an agreement with the social partners on its control and it is now very important that individual ministries comply with this document and that we work gradually on individual measures. This is not always an easy thing, because, as it follows from the bureaucratic nature of the individual authorities and ministries, they are resisting any new tasks and any new work. So we are having a debate, which is certainly very dramatic, with the Ministry of Justice, which is preventing it from having to submit an amendment to the Act on insolvency proceedings, although it is evident that there are weaknesses in the system of bankruptcy, as is happening in the Czech Republic, and we have been repeatedly pointed out by a number of business entities that we need to improve the legal framework here. So it's just one of the specific examples, but you could go on like this. I have noted a question concerning employment. I think that we cannot only perceive the employment issue in such a narrow view that employment is equal to labour authorities, equals active employment policy. This means that the employment authorities pay subsidies to companies for employing someone. The government is trying to make us see the employment issue in a broader dimension, because employment is also determined by our ability to build transport infrastructure. Employment will be decided by our ability to start drawing on new European Union funds. When it comes to drawing old funds from the European Union, we are still fighting a battle there, but unfortunately it is a battle that is going on maybe with a two-year or three-year delay, because if the government progressed as intensively as we are today, two or three years ago, we did not have such a problem with the risk of losing European funds in about 20 billion this year. Crowns. So we're still fighting a battle, but we know it's a struggle that's very hard, but besides, it's important to start pumping as fast as possible next year. [[15.30 hours]] Effective procurement is also linked to employment, because we can have a beautifully approved state budget. I am very satisfied that yesterday Parliament approved the state budget, but also the budget of the transport fund. Well, what good is that money if we're not able to compete with individual transport structures? What good is the money for two sections of the D3 motorway that are ready when we've been dealing with a problem with who actually won the tender in order to build it? So we have real problems here, and this also concerns the issue of simplifying public procurement. I agree that it is necessary for the award to be transparent, but it also has to end at some point. And I think that we are slowly heading as the Czech Republic among countries that have very long public procurement, and at the end of the day it can become a very unpleasant surprise in the form of various sanctions and fines and levies, especially if they are linked to the drawing of European subsidies. So that's also a very important thing. Of course, export support is linked to employment. Economic diplomacy is linked to employment. Effective functioning of the state administration. And only at the end, when we have all these measures, and when all these things work, in my view, are the employment authorities and their active employment policies that can help, but can only help a limited number of people, and it is not the key to economic prosperity. The key is the structural changes that I have been trying to talk about here, which are also included in the plan to promote economic growth and employment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u49	I'll ask the honourable Member if she wants to come out again. Yes, it is, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u50	In your reply, you stated, among other things, that there may be a drop in funds that we may not be able to draw out in time. And I'm asking: If this situation really occurs, who will be responsible for this black scenario?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u51	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u52	Thank you. I believe that the Government is acting as openly and transparently as possible on this matter. We have been discussing materials in government for several months, which are completely public and which show how the use of the old Structural Funds is developing. It is obvious that in some areas we have managed to speed up the drawing, which means that the final results will be slightly better than the managers of individual operational programmes initially assumed, but it may not have been possible elsewhere for objective reasons. We therefore expect, based on recent estimates, that we will not be able to spend effectively an amount that may be close to about 20 billion. CZK, but I say, these are preliminary estimates based on what information the Ministry of Regional Development has from individual administrators of operational programmes. The Member asked for responsibility. I think what is crucial is that we try to do our utmost in the first phase for the exhaustion of funds. In the second phase, it will probably be good when we conclude each operational programme in order to clearly describe history. To clearly describe and publish what has actually been going on in recent years. Where was the delay? Why was the problem that the control methodology had changed? This was one of the things that was very important for the delay in drawing, that we had to tighten the control methodology throughout the process, because the European Commission noted that our methodology was too leaky to assess individual projects. We may have gotten into a little bit of the opposite extreme right now, but there's nothing we can do. At this point, we're following a valid methodology that exists here for audits. The question is also the structure of the operational programmes of those projects that the administrators of operational programmes have focused on. I think there are a number of aspects that need to be spoken of openly. But the time will come for the debate. Once the programmes are closed, the government should openly describe and publish it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u53	Thank you. Another interviewer is Mr Antonín Seďa, on the topic of the Action Plan for Economic Growth. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, it is a coincidence that I will continue after my colleague. However, I wanted to ask you about the Economic Growth and Employment Action Plan, whether it is linked to the priorities of your government's programming declaration. And what I would like to know is that I am interested in concrete steps by the government to promote economic growth, which you have already mentioned here. Also, whether the document calculates and sets priorities for the drawing and efficient use of European Structural and Investment Funds in the new programming period 2014 to 2020. We certainly agree, Prime Minister, that there should also be concrete measures in this plan to promote the business environment and, in particular, to increase the competitiveness of our country. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, what specific measures are part of this action plan and what will be the evaluation and control of their implementation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u55	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u56	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, it was not really about bringing forward another strategy, but it was about bringing together practically the things that we can guarantee and bring to an end as a government. That means not promising the things we want governments to do in 10 or 15 years, but putting in a plan the things we can do next year or next year. As regards Mr Sed's question, I must say that the Action Plan to promote economic growth and employment is very closely linked to the Partnership Agreement that we signed with the European Commission, which actually shows where the European funds will be directed. This link between the Action Plan and the Partnership Agreement is basically absolute, that is, we are based on it and we are going to try to focus funding on the partnership agreement in areas where we think that they could help in terms of strengthening economic growth and employment. I would also like to comment on the issue of measures relating to the business environment, investment, development of investment construction and those specific measures. But before I do, I would take advantage of being here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support the amendment to the Public Procurement Act. Because it is also included in the action plan, and the House will decide on it. I would also like to ask for support from the Energy Act. It is also a measure that can support economic growth, and I know that it has not yet passed through the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, and I would consider it very reasonable. I also want to thank you for supporting the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Once again, we have a vote, I suspect tomorrow, about the EIA, and the approval of this law will open the way for us to draw European funds. So everything has to do with everything that happens. A number of amendments submitted by the government to the House have already been tabled in the context of the Action Plan to promote economic growth and employment. So when you vote on an amendment to public procurement, when you vote on the EIA, when you vote on another legislation, energy law, you also vote on the implementation of this action plan, which has the support of employees and employers. With regard to the attractive business environment, what can be used is the question of support to start-up entrepreneurs mainly through the Structural Funds, support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs through the development and capital strengthening of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank. Pressure of the Czech Republic to remove obstacles in the single market of the European Union. Of course, reducing the administrative burden. We have here 60 concrete measures, which are the result of the work of an expert group, and we would like to work on them. I've already mentioned a functioning insolvency proceedings. That's the ball that's on the side of the Justice Department. Consumer protection and consumer demand promotion, as well as increasing the potential of information technology, using the possibilities of developing a digital economy in the context of the Czech economy. But it is also about making economic diplomacy more effective. We have set up one contact point for businessmen as part of export support. Export financing and insurance, this means certain necessary changes in the Czech Export Bank, EGAP, so that loans are provided transparently, so that they are provided for real business projects, so that they are not only granted to a defined range of business entities, as they were in the past. [[15.40 hours]] So even here, important changes are needed. And, of course, strengthening the promotion of tourism development, which is, after all, linked to the support of a number of small entrepreneurs who work and work in this area, and I would just like to mention a few government initiatives, whether it is the amendment to the General Health Insurance Act, which improves the promotion of spa, whether it is an effort to strengthen our relations with China, including the establishment of a direct air link between Shanghai and Prague and the promotion of the Czech Republic in China to strengthen tourism. So I think that these are concrete projects on which the government is working and which should help to develop tourism and small businesses in this area. As far as larger businesses are concerned, I want to mention the amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, I want to mention the reduction of set-aside fees from the agricultural soil fund as regards the implementation of new investments, the shortening of the implementation period of the investment project... [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u57	Mr. Seďa wants to step forward. Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u58	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I can only take two notes. The first - each government actually creates certain documents, and here I hope and want to believe that it will not be a document, as they say, that paper will bear everything, but that it will be a real document, which will actually be controlled, but will mainly contribute to the economic growth of the country. And second point. You mentioned an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. I remember when she was talking here in the House. I have drawn attention to the problems that will arise with this novel, and I think time has shown that it has indeed been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u59	The Prime Minister will still respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u60	Thank you. I think that's just the way it is. And when we look objectively at the barriers to economic growth, public procurement is undoubtedly one of them. We have now shortly after the municipal elections, and I have to say that a number of new mayors may meet with other skeletons in their closets when they sweep them out of their predecessors, because here we have questions concerning the drawing of European funds and controls linked to the drawing of European funds, and in a number of cases of control, they have found fault in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. I'm afraid so. This brings sanctions from the financial authorities, and this brings with it an unpleasant surprise for a number of cities and municipalities that have used European projects in the past. Perhaps there has now been a complete change of political guarantee, and the new leadership of the city will have to struggle with serious financial problems precisely as a result of a sanction system that has been linked to how public procurement has been carried out, because it has not always been related to the fact that someone wanted to steal there. Very often mistakes were made on the basis of unclear interpretations, on the basis of changing interpretations, on the basis of the fact that companies that were hired to organise public contracts did not do good work. These are the things that people really encounter, and I fear that if these cases increase, so that there will actually be growth and concern at all to use European funds, because at the beginning there can be joy in getting the subsidy, the joy of the project being realized, at the end of which, of course, there is a huge financial problem in the situation where the follow-up will find some error. So there is a need to improve education, simplify the rules, prepare well for drawing up new European funds so that such sad cases are as little as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Seďa remains because he will be asked about the structural funds of the European Union in the ninth interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, I have looked at the monitoring report on the implementation of the Structural Funds for the period 2007 to 2013. Total allocation to 3. 10. was CZK 695 billion and the total funds in the submitted applications exceeded CZK 1 trillion 309 billion. For paid funds, they amount to CZK 441.5 billion, which is about 63,5 %, and the requests sent to the European Commission represent CZK 376,5 billion, which is 54.2 %. There is still talk about the lack of funding from the European Union, which is a huge damage to our country. I would therefore like to ask, Prime Minister, what is the current state of drawdown of operational programmes, which is at a critical level, and in particular what your government intends to do to improve this situation and to make the Czech Republic use of these programmes as much as possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u63	Yes, the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u64	Thank you. I've already talked about how we're going to have a lot of time when we add up and underline the accounts for the existing Structural Funds, so there'll be enough time to talk about how the drawdown developed and where the main causes are. I would like to inform you that, as far as 2014 is concerned, 85,6 percent of this year's draw limit for 2014 was exhausted for the Czech Republic. This year, the Czech Republic has to send additional expenses to the European Commission for reimbursement of approximately CZK 84 billion in order to meet this limit. We already know from the information of the managing authorities and the analyses of the Ministry for Regional Development that it will not be possible to draw funds from all programmes in time. I've already informed you about this in the context of the interpelling process. The group of programmes that lose part of their allocation will include the Environment Operational Programme, the Research and Development Operational Programme for Innovation, the Integrated Operational Programme as well as the Technical Assistance Operational Programme, the Northwest Regional Operational Programme and the Prague Operational Programme - adaptation. So these are operational programmes, where we expect that this year there will be no exhaustion of funds, and so this overall loss will be created in summary by not using the potential we have to make use of the allocated funds to implement the projects. This year's aim, and this was mainly the aim of the government's activities, which started at the beginning of this year, was to reduce the initial estimate of non-expansion of funds through crisis plans. I must say that the implementation of the measures we agreed on in the spring has a positive impact. It also has positive impacts on the elimination of certain risks associated with the implementation of operational programmes in this programming period, but also in terms of overall improvement in the implementation of European funds, using experience for the ongoing new programming period 2014 to 2020. In the case of certain operational programmes, the risks associated with non-excessive appropriations have been reduced. However, the risk of not exhausting part of the funds remains. I must say that the government regularly deals with the situation in individual operational programmes, we regularly receive information on how the drawdown is taking place this year. We are trying to exert maximum pressure on individual management bodies of operational programmes in order to take advantage of all the possibilities to ensure that the Czech Republic loses as little as possible. As I have already mentioned, according to recent forecasts, the Czech Republic could not use funds to the extent of CZK 20 billion in 2014. These are the last data for the operational programmes I mentioned here. That means, of course, we'll continue with the arrangements. The end of the year is coming, so the goal is to meet the maximum predictions of drawing as they were realized, and so our goal is to achieve the best possible results in 2014. Perhaps allow me to make a brief remark regarding 2015. We assume that most of the measures implemented in the various operational programmes this year should be reflected in 2015 in particular, or I assume that the effects of these measures, which partly affected 2014, should largely intervene in 2015 and help us reduce the risks of undersupply of funds in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u65	Mr. Seďa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u66	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the information. I hope that the loss of so-called lack of money will be as low as possible. But I wanted to ask you what your point of view is about the main reasons why this happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u67	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u68	I think there's a lot to discuss. I have noted and recorded all the public debate that said that the main reason is that the last government has set too many operational programs. However, when we look at what operational programmes have a problem in terms of funding, in addition to the Northwest regional operational programme, those other regional operational programmes are not included among those covered by the crisis plans. So if we are talking about the total volumes, not the media impact, but about the total amounts of funds that are at risk of the greatest undersupply, they are operational programmes set up by ministries, not operational programmes of that category of regional operational programmes. So I don't think the main problem here is, except for the Regional Operational Programme Northwest. I think the mistake is that the managing authorities were not sufficiently active at the beginning of the programming period, i.e. between 2007 and 2013, when operational programmes had to be launched as quickly as possible. That's the first thing - weak activity. The second reason is management management management at the highest level. I just want to recall the problems that were needed on the environmental fund in terms of poor administrative performance, how long there were applications, how long their assessment and administration took. This is one of those examples that has unfortunately made the situation very difficult for us today - the work in the past. And then, of course, the problems of the audit authority, the Ministry of Finance, which worked very badly by the end of 2012. The certification of individual operational programmes had to be suspended. I would just like to remind you that even five operational programmes were suspended at the end of Petr Nečas' government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u69	I think we will be able to do at least one more interview, however Mr Pavera has withdrawn his, so it seems to be Mrs Váhalová on the subject of health pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Dear Prime Minister, I have noted that the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic wants to provide funds to hospitals by increasing the price of work in the 2015 payment decree and also by a government regulation that will impose a 5% increase in wages in bedding facilities, which are state contribution organisations. According to the press, however, this government regulation will not reach equity companies, while many regions in the past have transferred their hospitals to these public limited companies. In this context, I would like to ask what is the current consensus and how do you want to ensure wage increases in these facilities as well. If there's any deal that's gonna be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u71	The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u72	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have actually been very brief, because I have described the way that we have finally come to the conclusion that the government could have approved a 5% increase in tariff salaries in health care at its last session. Of course, organizations that take the form of joint stock companies are not legally bound by tariff salaries and will depend on the founders here. The government is trying to create economic conditions for increasing salaries in these organisations as well. The aim and the main instrument is the form of a payment order. In recent days and weeks, the Minister of Health has consulted very carefully on the form of a payment order not only with health insurance companies but also with health care providers, with the Hospital Association, with trade unions operating in the health sector, in order to be sure that the form of a payment order, as approved by the Ministry of Health, will indeed provide sufficient money for hospitals to negotiate sufficient wage increases in 2015 at the level of 5%. It will certainly be one of the topics we want to talk about with the authorities as soon as the nearest joint negotiations between the government and the Association of Regions are held, because the regions here bear the greatest share of responsibility. They have the most hospitals in the form of public limited companies in their responsibility, and there we will want to discuss this with the regions and we will want to know to what extent the regions have supported the implementation of a 5 per cent increase in health care salaries. I think that this is also important from the point of view of the competitiveness of individual health establishments, and I think that this may be an argument that will serve to increase salaries even where the law does not impose it directly. Because if a health facility wants to stay competitive in the long run, have the ability to employ high-quality doctors, high-quality nurses, high-quality medical staff, then it will simply have to respond to the change in salaries, because the contribution organizations, state-controlled faculty hospitals, will proceed to the increase in salaries. So I think that it is a natural motive and a natural motivation for the stock companies that are set up by the regions or cities to try to achieve this pay increase by 5%. The government is doing everything in its power to allow the payment decree to transfer sufficient funds to hospitals. Just one last comment. The payment decree does not merely include the question of ensuring the means of salaries next year, but also an important part is the provision of funds to compensate for cancellations in the health care sector. These are the other funds that will go for - and not only to hospitals, but also to the outpatient sphere - to compensate for the income that will fall away by not paying medical fees from 1 January next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u73	Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u74	Maybe I'll just be a little while longer. Prime Minister, as I understand it, the consensus is still being sought. It hasn't been found yet. We're still working on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u75	The Prime Minister will probably have his last speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u76	Yes, thank you. It may be a question indeed at the Regional Association, but the government's aim is to increase the salaries of all health workers. In this sense, we will also negotiate with the Association of Regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u77	So that was the 11th interpellation. We will no longer begin the 12th interpellation. That concludes the interview with the Prime Minister. We'll continue with the interpelations on individual ministers. I just want to inform you - Minister Jurečka has been apologizing since 15.30, so he will not be present at the interviews, he apologizes for work reasons. And I have received these apologies. Mrs Berdychová from three o'clock on health grounds, Mr Sedláček from 14.30 for work reasons, but I have already said that. And Mrs Zelienková has been working since 14.30. So many apologies. There's nothing stopping us - [[Member Kováčik from the bench: Defends, time.]] Yes, you're right, Mr. Chairman. We'll wait about two minutes. In the meantime, Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready and someone will send a system so that the first one is there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u78	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we will continue with oral interpelations on the members of the government. I'm sorry about the information device, it's up to point three because it's jammed right now. We'll start with point one. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the support of scientists, will give the first interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u79	I'm turning to the Minister of Culture Herman. Eight professors and two professors from Charles University and Masaryk University failed to respond to the release of the curator of the Anthropos Mgr Martina Galetová, D, from the Moravian Museum. It is an anthropologist who received the most prestigious award for her scientific work from Paleolite. In the Czech Republic she was awarded the Award of the President of the Czech Grant Agency for outstanding results in the field of social sciences in 2013. Her work was ranked among the ten most important world archaeological discoveries of 2011 according to the journal Archaeology, published by the Archaeological Institute of America. As a mother of three, she was released at a time when she was to return from parental leave, during which she managed to conduct the museum magazine Anthropology, which was included in the international survey of scientific journals SCOPUS, and her involvement in the work is also documented by publicly available annual reports from the Moravian Museum during the years 2012 and 2013, which mention her continuous scientific activity during parental leave. Nevertheless, her parental leave was taken as a reason to reject the grant granted by the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic in the amount of over CZK 2 million and in the assessment at the Ministry of Culture this was not unsubstantiated, virtually. It seems that the inconclusive argument is contradicted. Since things have already been made public, I would like to call on you, Minister, to take care of the good practice of women scientists returning from the care of young children. It is clear that the Minister of Culture does not bear personal responsibility for the institution's personnel actions throughout the Ministry of Culture and that it is likely that the doctor can obtain the rights by legal means. However, I consider this case to be an exceptional and, on the one hand, an expression of capacity in the field, by all men, by the way, and, on the other hand, by falling into cases of disadvantage for top qualified workers returning to work on maternity or parental leave. This is not about quotas or preferences, but about quite obvious discrimination. Gestures for its elimination certainly belong to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or in the field of scientific application at RVVI, which also dominate men. However, the cultural resort could lead by example in a positive sense and remind you that even the behaviour of women of science at our workplaces is not just a bitterly accepted necessity ordained from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u80	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. I'll ask Minister Herman for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u81	Mr President, colleagues, I thank Mr Zlatušek for his interest, and I also appreciate the interest of the academic community, which has actually addressed me in this matter, and although, as has already been said in the interview, I do not really have the personnel powers with regard to the various contribution organisations of our department, so, of course, I see this as a matter of interest. That is why I actually had the matter examined. At this point, according to the information I have, it has been found that this museum worker has been tied up with a job for overcapacity on the basis of the institution's reorganisation carried out. On top of that, the doctor was employed in a part-time museum. As regards the conclusion of a contractual relationship with the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic to solve the project, it was verified that the management of the museum had done everything in its power to do so. There was no solution to the task, as the guarantee of its solution could not be ensured because of the parental leave already mentioned, the main investigators who did not provide guarantees that would allow the conclusion of a contractual relationship with the Grant Agency. The Moravian Museum had an interest in concluding a contractual relationship with the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, so it offered an appointed agreement on the temporary management of the grant, with the participation of the worker concerned in the future. However, this was rejected. While these are things that have already been investigated, I still consider this interest of renowned academic staff to be really serious, and so, as I repeat, I do not have personnel powers that concern individual contribution organisations, so I will ask again about the management of the Moravian Museum and the request to re-examine the whole thing, because, of course, at a time when there are doubts, they need to be removed in any way. Thank you again for this interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u82	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm asking Mr. Zlatuška. He has a follow-up question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u83	Dear Minister, thank you for your hopeful answer. I would just like to point out that the features justifying the reorganisation, the excesses of such an excellent worker, awarded both internationally and nationally, are also on the Ministry of Culture's website, all of which give rise to reasonable suspicion that this is a classic mobbing, what workers returning from maternity or parental leave are going through, and that this has already been pointed out by associations that care for equality in science. I therefore hope that the investigation will be genuinely factual, not formal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u84	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Minister, I'd like an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u85	Thank you. That's what I meant by the additional investigation. There have been some theories that need to be taken very seriously. Of course, every citizen also has the right to defend himself by legal means, so it is also my concern to be quite sure how things happened, what problems were really there, that possible suspicion would not be confirmed, or maybe it would be confirmed, so in this sense my question will be directed. Thank you once again for your interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u86	I thank both the Minister and the Member. The information board has become stable for us. We will address the second interview in which Mrs Adamová will be asking Minister Stropnický about the sale of Karlín barracks. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u87	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, as early as mid-February, at the sixth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I interviewed you with a question about the sale of the Karlín barracks by Jan Žižka. At that time, the first tender was abolished, followed by the second tender in the summer of this year, but no interested party applied. The reason for the cancellation of the first tender was many doubts about the announcement, with a single expert opinion, the alleged errors of officials who were subsequently to be released. That's when you immediately deduced the consequences. The second tender with a 40 million higher announcing price was completely unsuccessful because the only candidate did not apply. So what consequences did you draw after this second tender? But first of all, I want to ask what will be the next step with this decaying complex. Will it remain unused? After all, since July, enough time has passed for the Ministry to present some new procedure in this matter, and I am asking about it. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u88	Thank you, ma'am. I ask Minister Stropnický to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u89	Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would be happy to inform you. Maybe I can still recap a little bit of the history of this whole case. The object was excluded from the use of the Army of the Czech Republic in January 2013. The Declaration of Necessity for the Ministry of Defence and the State took place in April 2013, after which the object was declared an immovable cultural monument. Price for sale according to expert opinion from 19. 6. the same year was set at CZK 580 million as the usual price. Then the conclusion of the Commission on the management of non-needed real estate of 12. 9. 2013, which was in favour of the sale in the form of a public tender, and then on 17. 11. The minimum purchase price for the first round was set at CZK 581 million. Then there was a promotion for the first round of the selection procedure in the usual way on the Ministry of Defence website, then in the Journal of Law, with the date of submission of applications being up to 13. 12. At the time three applications were submitted with a range of offers 582 to 589.5 million CZK, i.e. a range of CZK 17,5 million for the property, where the starting price was CZK 581 million. After that, there was an end. First, Griva Art was selected with the highest bid of 589.5 million and 11. 2. with this company was terminated negotiations on the purchase contract, which gave us the negotiation process, respectively. The Ministry, allowed. I have to say that, perhaps, what is already a bit forgotten with time, that the entire transaction or tender process and then its published winner caused a huge wave of different negative media responses, questioning and pointing out various errors. In the category of days, this criticism or reference to deficiencies had to be evaluated and, after it was established that two of the three applicants were clearly linked by staff, it was decided as decided. Then the second round was prepared. The preparation, I must say, was considerably more careful. A new expert opinion was submitted, which determined the price at CZK 620 million. We have reached the maximum, or we have used all available means to address the maximum possible candidates. Of course the ad in the diary, and it was a long-term advertising contract, then another newspaper ad was made in Hospodářské noviny and in the weekly Economist, the press department provided information about sales in News and tn.cz in advance. Of course it appeared again on our website. We offered it to 73 developers based on the company's website.cz Eight foreign developers. We contacted 89 of our representative offices and 19 Czech centres abroad and then 153 foreign representatives for the Czech Republic. Four interested parties volunteered. By the way, the deadline for the submission of tenders was extended, but the application was not received within any time limit. It was therefore decided that the third round of the selection procedure would be announced. After consulting experts in this field, i.e. property in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns, it was decided that it was necessary to wait a while. But I can assure you that the third round will take place and that in no way has there been any property - Yes, thank you. [[Attention on time.]] Detention in the sale did not change the Ministry's property situation in any way. That means state, virtually. There's no way the Department of Defense lost their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u90	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe if we hadn't heard it from the very beginning, but we really focused on the future, then, Minister, you would have gotten to the more important things that I asked directly. I mean, what's next? So it's going to be the third round, we've learned, but I'd like to know even more about whether you're going to continue to reevaluate the price, when the third round is going to happen specifically, what is going to happen until then, if you're going to use the object for your own purposes, or if it's going to be preserved as it has been, and rented only in part, as far as we know, and so on, the city or state police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u92	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I have only touched this, of course. I merely mentioned it lightly, but believe me, it is not possible to describe any strategy for real estate or sale strategy for a property whose price is in this order. I have said what I can say, which means that the market must be rested in such a case, and believe that we have consulted with leading experts, but investments of this type can reach a maximum of five candidates in this country. And that may be partly the answer to your question. Otherwise, don't think of it as secretive, but I wouldn't want to damage the further development with any indiscretion. As for the costs, they now amount to approximately CZK 30,000 a month for us. It's like you say. Partly in use of the Police of the Czech Republic. I consider these costs to be low and tolerable - let's say. Last sentence. In any case, in the real estate market, according to my information, it does not seem that the property should be losing its price in that particular location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u94	I thank the Minister and the Member. The third interview will be presented by Mr Antonín Seďa, who will also interpel the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický to the state in Vrbětice and the Ministry of Defence. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, we certainly agree that the most important task today has been to ensure the security of citizens in the vicinity of ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice. Sending troops to the Army of the Czech Republic is a positive decision in relation to ensuring security of dangerous objects today. However, Minister, I do not like a certain alibi of your ministry, absolving responsibility and lack of public awareness. From this point of view, I have the following specific questions for you. Is it true, Minister, that an hour after the first explosion, the military police were on the scene, and if so, what was she doing there and what were the outputs of her activities? According to your coworkers' statement, the leases and the technical condition of ammunition storage are in order. I want to ask who specifically and when signed these contracts and whether you personally checked whether the rental relationships in these buildings are in order from the point of view of the Czech laws. Do you personally, Minister, know how many tons of ammunition and other dangerous materials are located in the location? Is it verified that there has been no violation of the law in relation to the cover of ammunition warehouses? Do you believe, Minister, that the security of the premises in the number of two people was sufficient? How did the lease agreements deal with the security of all rented buildings? Who has the authority to control military explosives when the Czech Mining Authority claims that it has that power only for industrial explosives? Dear Minister, how is it possible that information was provided from your ministry to the first Deputy Prime Minister as part of the police investigation file? Thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u96	I thank Mr Seďa and ask the Minister of Defence for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I believe it will fit into the time I have at my disposal. Maybe that's a couple of interpellations at the same time. I'd like to say that the Department of Defense and I aren't making matters any less difficult. The interest in the situation is not expressed by expressive vocabulary or by the power of the voice, but by certain specific procedures and actions. And we're in this, I'd say, really reliable. And I'm getting to the first question, if the military police were on the scene right after the explosion, what they were doing, how long they worked here. There's one thing I have to say, and it's still mixing, confusing, and I don't know if it's on purpose. Sometimes I get the impression that it's deliberate. That wasn't a military ammunition warehouse. That was a civilian military warehouse, and it's a civilian ammunition warehouse, and it has a different regime, including protection than a military ammunition warehouse. It contains, in the civilian, private ammunition of companies that have a proper license granted by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the basis of the benefits of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The regime is completely different from that of military ammunition. If that is correct, it may be the subject of a legitimate or controversial debate, but that is the situation now. The fire at 9.45 on that 16th October was reported by František Machuča, who was at that time an employee of EXCALIBUR, at the gate of Bohuslavice nad Vláří, fire on the building number 16. The fire was reported on 949 911 911 911 911 911 911 911 911 911 911 In 10 the permanent operational supervisory headquarters of the military police Olomouc received a request from the operational centre of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic Zlín for assistance in ensuring the operation of the area VTÚ Slavičín - Vrbětice. The first units of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Zlín Region arrived at the site at 10.05. Upon request of the operational officer of the operational centre Police of the Czech Republic Zlínský kraj on 16. 10. in 10.45 the commander of the Military Police Command Olomouc decided to provide six members of the military police, a so-called group of rapid intervention, to cooperate at the site of the sudden event. At 11.30 a group of rapid intervention of the headquarters of the Military Police Olomouc started operations on site according to the instructions of the commander of the measures Police of the Czech Republic. So, since the first report in 105 minutes, there's been a unit of military police from Olomouc on the scene. Then she was asked to assist, and at 11.30 she ceased her activities and returned. Since then no further requests have been made by the police of the Czech Republic. Why? Because the Police of the Czech Republic is the guarantor of the entire investigation and the whole intervention. 20. 10. Chief of Military Police Command Olomouc contacted the police commander on other possible requirements and no further request for assistance or assistance has been formulated. With regard to leases and technical conditions, who signed contracts etc. I have here a list of all the contracts concluded between the Military Technical Institute and private entities. In the case of Bochemie there are three contracts, two are from 2009, one is from 2010. Excalibur, which has the largest number of buildings rented there, has two contracts, both from 2011. Imex Group, this is the company whose two buildings exploded, has one contract from 20. 7. 2011, STV Group, the last company, also has one contract from 2011. The rented premises of the warehouses were empty at the time of the transfer to use and there was no ammunition in them. At that time, the ammunition was only in the buildings used by the Military Technical Institute. How many tons of ammo and dangerous material were there, is there? The numbers vary dramatically in the media, and it's a disaster. But it's just that whoever posts more alarming data and more alarming messages, they have a chance to be published. So the numbers above 10,000 in tons that occurred don't match the facts. It's about 7,500 tons, not 15,000 tons, as I've also heard somewhere. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes. It's a bit of a problem. Well, I have to take it really fast. The area of business with military material, ammunition, is governed mainly by Law 229. This law provides for an obligation to keep a record of security material and provides for data to be secured. If I simplify this ad absurdum, the Military Technical Institute had the authority to monitor the oblosity and monitor the status of security devices. Trhaviny, explosives controlled by the Mining Authority, specific ammunition was to be controlled by the Police of the Czech Republic. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna try to answer the rest of the questions in the second part of the interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u98	Thank you, Minister. With an additional question, Minister Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u99	Thank you, Minister. I don't have any follow-up questions. I'm sorry, there's been a lot of questions, so I'm just gonna let you answer at least one or two more questions in the rest of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u100	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u101	Thank you. I think that just from what I said in that last phase of my first answer, it turns out that it's quite difficult to understand. I think it's one of the reasons the accident happened. Now, please don't misunderstand me, but the ammunition warehouse that originally comes from the first Republic was built well. samý, the terrain. The ammo that exploded in there could have done a lot of damage. And actually relatively, and now I don't want to be cynical, but the damage was relatively small. And in this sense, we are also continuing with our colleague Chovanc to take place, let us say, as little as it speculated. It's not good for the situation, especially for the residents. As far as information is concerned, the information used by President Babiš came from standard records, which means entering the premises, not from the investigation file. And on top of that, as far as corporate information is concerned, it really came from completely open sources. Last sentence. The record that the director of Imex had visited the warehouse the day before is in the visitor's book at the warehouse door, and he didn't dispute it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u102	I thank both the Member and the Minister for a very comprehensive answer. Mr Josef Zahradníček, who will interpel the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on driving licences, will give the fourth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u103	Have a good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Dear Minister of Transport. With this interview, I ask you whether a certain remedy can be made regarding the issue of driving licences to those who have just passed the prescribed tests properly. It is generally known that a new driver has to wait for about 20 days for a proper document to be issued to him, that is a driving licence for driving a motor vehicle. And that's the problem with the new driver. Waiting for the successful completion of the exam for about 20 days until he will be issued the necessary driver's license in modern times today. Lately, there are cases where the new adept is eager to know or not, and sits without authorisation behind the wheel or handlebars of a motor vehicle and is stopped by a police authority, and he has no proof of his right to drive a motor vehicle - and is ill. It is viewed as a person without authorisation to drive a motor vehicle, administrative proceedings are conducted against him, seven points are deducted and a fine of CZK 20,000 or perhaps even more. I don't even want to guess what would happen if he committed a serious traffic violation. [[16.30 hours]] I hereby ask you, Mr. Transport Minister: Is there anything you can do, for example, to have the examiner give him a small card or something like that for a period of time before he gets his driver's license? Thank you for your reply and I wish you every success in the management of your ministry. Everyone else, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u104	I thank the honourable Member and ask the Minister for an answer to the interpelation. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u105	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. The current model of the driving licence is a draft for which the personification for individual applicants takes place directly in production. The issue of a driving licence is also the completion of an administrative act of obtaining a driving licence and is a document authorising the driving of motor vehicles throughout the European Union. The 20-day period shall be based on the technology of its production and shall also take into account the maximum time limit for cases of increase in the number of driving licences issued. That means there's some cotton wool in that even if there's a lot of IDs, we can guarantee this deadline. For an increased administrative fee of CZK 500, the applicant may apply for an early or accelerated issue of the licence within a shorter period of five days. Generally, in practice, both periods are usually even shorter than those laid down by law. From the point of view of the law, we as Ministry do not recommend shortening those terms, because guaranteeing shorter time would be problematic in terms of today's production times. However, I would like to promise you that I will try to discuss whether this deadline could be shortened. But since it is done only in one place, it really is not easy for all cities in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u106	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zahradníček has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u107	Thank you, Minister. My addition concerns my interpelation of 16 September this year, when I intersected in writing your predecessor Mr Antonín Prachař in relation to the memorandum on road 1/23 and 1/34, and then in November I personally handed him the documents, but so far I have not received any reply. Therefore, allow me, and I have given you the material here through your assistant, to ask you for an answer, which also awaits the mayors of the municipalities and cities on the route of the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u108	Thank you. The Minister has an additional answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u109	Once again, Mr President, honourable Members, according to information from my cabinet, Minister Prachař replied and sent his reply to the House in due time, that is until 14 October. And according to the question here, the answer was handed over directly. I have a copy of the document here just in case, so I can give it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u110	I thank the Member, the Minister, for a very positive approach. Mr Karel Fiedler, who will intersect the absent Minister Milan Chovanec on a complaint about the election results, will give the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u111	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. Since the Minister is not present, just briefly what is going on. My question is that in the last elections, especially in the municipal elections, we have registered an increasing number of complaints about the results and, above all, the course of the elections. The question lies in what the Minister sees the cause, whether he sees any systemic error in it, whether he intends to deal with it or not. But since the Minister is not present, in this case, I would use the form of written interpelation to the Minister. Now follows the second brief question. Out of the 28 countries of the European Union, elections are taking place on a 26-day basis, and only in two countries of the European Union - the second country except the Czech Republic is Italy - the two-day elections. If we try to get closer to European customs, or if we persist in our two-day election situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u112	I thank Mr Fiedler. He'll be answered in writing. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who will interpel the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický on the departure of the military special, will give the sixth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u113	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, members of the government, colleagues, in the last week, at the beginning of December, we received an iceberg. It paralyzed our traffic. It has paralyzed us even almost half of the day here in the Chamber of Deputies, when we dealt with this issue. I don't want to go back to that, but he won't let me ask the Secretary of Defense. In the media I noticed that on the night of 1st and 2nd December he was to leave the Prague military airport in Kbely a military special, namely Afghanistan, where he was to replace soldiers on missions. Due to this weather calamity, this military aircraft was unable to launch. On the other hand, there is information that the civil airport in Prague-Ruzyn was able to carry out flights normally according to the flight schedule at the time of the calamity. I would therefore like to ask why the army is unable to secure the air traffic of the soldiers and if it does not say anything about the state of our army at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u114	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister is in a hurry to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, in the long debate on the frost that took place here at this meeting, perhaps the only means of transport that has not been mentioned was the plane. And I don't want to downplay it at all, but the causes are actually, I'd say, almost trivial. Now, a serious sentence. It has nothing to do with performance or usability, the need to deploy, for example, Gripens or our air defenses. It is provided in a completely different regime in Čáslav. But this plane, this airbus so-called government squadron had to, just like the other one, we have two, as you probably know, had to stand outside because we only have one hangar to fit the airbus, and in that hangar there was a long-term repair of casa, another aircraft that had planned the repair, and it was impossible to change it. This came to this in its summary of speeches quite a unique calamity, which was still particularly intense in Kbely, there was the icing of several centimeters. In addition, the airport still has standard defrosting devices, but they were not effective in this situation, so the flight was postponed. But to say something in the sense of lessons for the future. We are aware of the need to secure another hangar, and there are those costs estimated at about CZK 20 million, which we will have to find in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u116	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u117	I knew we had two military planes. If I look at Ruzyn, I don't pay much attention to the hangar, and I think all the planes that come and go are out all the time, that they don't even go to the hangar. So the fact that I didn't have planes parked in the hangar seems a little smiley to me, because the civilian air force is able to protect it. I'm afraid that really corresponds to a little bit about the state of our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u118	And the Minister is in a hurry to defend our army. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself to claim that this corresponds to the state of our army, as clearly as possible to refuse. I've made that clear. It's quite different in Čáslav. Chaslav is oversized, there's a lot more space. A government squadron, after all, does not carry out such serious tasks, although rotation in missions is certainly not a marginal task. I'm not an aviation specialist, but I don't think it compares with Ruzyně. On the one hand, it has completely different capacities and the aircraft remain there only for the necessary time and keep rotating. So mostly it's just about refueling, the most necessary cleaning, and the plane goes on again. Still, we'll build a second hangar. But this was a coincidence of unforeseen circumstances. I don't think it's entirely fair to draw any conclusions about the state of our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u120	Thank you, Minister. We're getting to the seventh interpellation. Mr. Michal Kučera will intersect the Minister of Justice Helena Válková in the case of district courts in Prague. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u121	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary, could you please explain the objective reason for dislocation of only part of the District Court for Prague 5 from the premises of the State-owned Justice Palace into the lease of a private owner, where the estimated amount of net rent amounts to more than 800 thousand. CZK per month, according to my information therefore, the advance on services is supposed to be a little over 200 thousand. CZK monthly, energy consumption approx. 80 thousand. A month? Moreover, according to my information, the need for an administrative apparatus will grow by several persons. This is the situation where the existing usable premises of the Justice Palace in Prague 5 - Smíchov, where the Regional Court in Prague and the District Court for Prague 5 are now located, with the approval of investments of almost 800 miles. on the intended superstructure consisting of six buildings completely covers the personnel requirements and needs of the two courts, where there are studies that, in the case of the dislocation of part of the District Court for Prague 5 from one of the buildings used, the Regional Court in Prague would have to increase the number of employees by tens of seats. Aren't you afraid that the dislocation of part of the District Court for Prague 5 as the fifth largest court in the Czech Republic will slow down the court's operation, in particular the length of legal proceedings will be extended and the public's availability to exercise their rights will become more difficult? In addition, the dislocation without a single selection procedure approved by the Dislocation Commission should be carried out by 30 4. 2015, when neither the contract is concluded nor the lease agreement, there have been no selection procedures to secure the ICT equipment of the court, security of the judicial guard's premises is not ensured, etc. I suspect that the object in question is perhaps also conservation. Could you please give me your opinion on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u122	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u123	Mr Vice-President, my colleague, who asked me this specific question about the dislocation of the District Court in Prague 5, my dear colleagues, I would like to make the most of the claims that have just been made here at the address of the dislocation, because I believe they are not entirely accurate. Let me briefly use a written basis, which I think is convincing enough to affect the merit of the matter. The District Court for Prague 5 is currently located in two buildings - the area of the Regional Court in Prague, namely F and B, and uses below-average office space of 10 square meters and 13 courtrooms. The ideal condition, as long as it is stated, ensuring smooth operation of the District Court Prague 5, is the future dislocation of 186 employees consisting of the use of a total of 25 meeting halls into the building of the former Sacré Coeur monastery in Holečkova Street 31, Prague 5. This variant of partial relocation, not complete, of the District Court for Prague 5, however, within walking distance of the part which remains so far located in the existing premises, has been evaluated as the most advantageous solution, even since both courts, the Regional Court in Prague and the District Court in Prague 5, have a significant lack of offices and courtrooms and currently the expansion of capacity in the building of the Regional Court in Prague comes up with its possibilities. This creates delays in handling the agenda. Another reason last year was the testimony of the Regional Court in Prague from the area used by the district court, which was confirmed by my predecessor Mrs Benešová, then Minister of Justice. Currently, you are right that the deadline is set for clearing out 30 April 2015. We are, of course, still debating this deadline and will be extended if necessary. It is also important to make clear the necessary change regarding the amount of the rent, precisely given that we have been waiting for a long time to discuss the government dislocation committee. We also held a number of negotiations directly with the owner of the Sacré Coeur building and managed to reduce the amount of the rent, so at present - and here it should be stressed that the duration should be up to five years - the amount of the rent without payment of the services is 10 607 thousand. per year, which is very good when compared with other commercial prices of objects comparable. For this we also have an expression of the relevant workplaces. However, the final solution to the dislocation of the District Court for Prague 5 is not closed. We are still encountering a lack of funds, which is also a task for the new economic deputy, because in order to achieve a satisfactory solution, we would need investment moving within 800 miles. CZK up to CZK 1 billion, which I agree with a possible critical assessment of such an investment if it was not an investment that would address, in addition to the District Court for Prague 5, the dislocation of other judicial units, e.g. District State Attorney for Prague 5, Probation and Mediation Services for Prague-West and Prague-East. So I think it's a matter that must be considered in the dislocation complex, not to see just one interest in dislocation of the District Court of Prague 5. The ideal option would be to obtain a suitable building owned by the State. Of course, that is what we strive most for. Another option is the acquisition of suitable land and the construction of a new building or the purchase of an existing suitable building. In the past, we also examined the variant of the transfer of the Czech Post building in Holečkova Street 106, Prague 5, its gradual reconstruction. But on the spot, I was informed of the fact that under the painting there are very valuable frescoes that would have to be repaired -- yes -- and this would have resulted in a disproportionate increase in investment. [[Time warning]] So we've abandoned this plan. So if I had to sum it up. On 5 December, the President of the District Court of Prague 5 Frankič received a very comprehensive reply with all the arguments that demonstrate the importance of the current solution. He's been briefed, so far I haven't had a chance to get to know him the other way around. I hope the answer satisfied him, at least explained the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u124	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u125	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. Since I am not a judge, I do not evaluate the situation from the point of view of efficiency or transition from one building to another as regards the exercise of the trial, however, from the point of view of cost efficiency. And you yourself mentioned that you will be paying CZK 10 million a year in the new facility. According to my information, when I look into the materials, only the costs of IT networks, security equipment, furniture purchases, etc., that means the five years you are supposed to be there will be about another 20 million crowns. From my point of view, this investment and this transition are extremely inefficient, especially from the representative of the movement that constantly shifts its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u126	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Secretary has an additional answer. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u127	So I will allow myself to look back, because I think that in the present situation it is not an inefficient solution, that we have chosen a solution that is the least difficult in terms of cost. Otherwise, we merely set aside the unbearable situation that arose during the period prior to the management of the resort, by my means, or by its possible influence in terms of investment. I would also like to point out here that this has all been properly discussed by the Government Dislocation Commission, and, of course, in contact with the State Representation Office on property matters we are continuously. The Ministry of Justice would never advance, and the Dislocation Commission would also not give its consent if it were not apparent that these costs were effectively incurred. The fact that this is not yet the final solution is not in the context of the Ministry of Justice, but is also involved in the opinion of the District Court for Prague 5, which has long held a very debatable view of its dislocation. He doesn't want to move, then he expresses his doubts about the options of the solution. I must also mention here the role of the Municipal Court in Prague, when the President of the Municipal Court, Dr. Vávra, made his signature on that tripartite agreement, which concerns precisely the rental of the space of Sacré Coeur, or from this point of view and here we have complied with all formal requirements, so I think that in the current situation, in the present time pres, it is a solution that we can consider effective, albeit certainly not ideal. And the last sentence. I think that if there were any other option at a time before the trial is finally moved, then, of course, if there was such a thing in particular, we are prepared to discuss it, but after a few years of negotiations, I want to be a realist. I think there is no such option at present. I wish I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u128	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ladislav Šincl, who will interpel the absent minister, Andrej Babiš, on the upcoming lottery law, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u129	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wonder if Mr. Babiš, the Minister of Finance, is excused from today's session of the interview. I'd really like to know. Could you tell me, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u130	I'll try to find out, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u131	Okay, thank you. However, since the Minister is not here, I would like to say my interpelation in his absence. Dear absent minister, according to the legislative plan of the work which you have agreed yourself, the Ministry of Finance is to submit to the Government a completely new law on the operation of gambling, in which the process of regulation of lotteries should be regulated comprehensively while respecting primary European law, as well as the rich case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This should be filled with the government's programming declaration, where the government has undertaken to ensure higher tax revenues from the operation of lotteries and other similar games, by making tax collection more effective, including by preventing tax evasion from the operation of illegal lotteries and games on the Internet. The deadline for submitting this law to the Government was set at the end of this year. Yesterday, in the context of the 2015 state budget, Members of Social Democracy tried to push for the strengthening of the budget for the necessary resources for sport. Thanks to your refusal, this proposal has not been accepted. However, in your speech you said that you will soon present an amendment to the Gaming Act, which will have a positive link to sport. You probably meant that the promised higher tax revenues from lottery operations should be a systemic source of income for sport. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr absent Minister, whether, in due course, a lottery law will be submitted to the Government, which will not be in conflict with the primary European law, as Mr Fichtner and his fellow Member have already tabled. I'm just pointing out that today is 11. 12. And whether it will include an adjustment of the lottery levy in favour of Czech sport. And if so, whether you could tell us or answer in writing what amount Czech athletes can look forward to in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u132	Thank you, Mr Šincl. Minister Andrej Babiš is truly excused from today's meeting for work reasons. You will then be answered in writing, Mr. Ambassador. The next interviewer will be Mr Ivo Pojezný, who will intersect the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the case of Diag Human.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u133	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am probably not the only one who recorded in the media at the end of July this year that the dispute with our Republic with Diag Human is over. This dispute, which has been going on since 1996, has cost taxpayers astronomical sums, and I do not mean more than 320 miles. paid in 2002, but also other millions that claimed the costs associated with this case. So it lit up for the citizens, but also for me the hope that the entire case is over. However, Diag Human claims otherwise and is chasing back the decision of the Arbitration Senate of 13 August 2008, according to which the Czech Republic is to pay 8 billion. Crowns, which hasn't happened yet. So the said company turned to foreign courts. Many of us surely remember the seizure of works by Emil Fila in Vienna, which was eventually returned, but it was still a kind of warning signal. That's why I'm asking. So how is the situation at present? Is the case at its end? Do taxpayers really need no longer fear that this case would cost them millions more? Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u134	I thank Mr Pojezný. Minister Svatopluk Němeček will now respond to the honourable Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I am merely recapitulating the basic points of this whole case, which, as you said, is extremely complicated and extremely long. I can confirm here the result that on 23 July of this year, the arbitration Senate stopped this proceeding with the fact that it had already been decided once, and thus Diag Human in arbitration proceedings before this Senate against the Czech Republic is not entitled to be paid even one crown by the Czech Republic. However, it is, of course, likely that Diag Human, which has not represented itself in the past in this dispute as, say, a company that is interested in being too fair to the Czech Republic, will try this matter in countries that do not know the legal order of the Czech Republic, which do not know the full details, to apply the already cancelled result from the previous proceedings and will try, say, where the Czech Republic will not be prepared, where it will not count on this possibility, to apply the attachment of the property of the Czech Republic and so on. [[17,00 hours]] However, if the Czech Republic is counting on this matter, if we are ready for these possible attacks, I firmly believe that Diag Human has no chance. However, I have to say fair and squarely here that this is a very complex legal matter, that I am not a lawyer, and please take this answer as an answer to a legal layman based on information from colleagues. The fact that Diag simply failed to arbitrate the Czech Republic, but can try it abroad, in countries where we will not have legal representation, for example, this matter not entirely fair to us. However, he just doesn't stand a chance in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u136	I thank the Minister, the Member is satisfied and does not have an additional question. I thank both the Member and the Minister. Mrs Černochová will present her tenth interview to the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on the action against demonstrators. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u137	Thank you. Dear absent minister, information has recently appeared in the media about two at least striking claims by the Police of the Czech Republic against protesters who wanted to express their opposition to President Zeman's actions in office. The first incident took place when the President visited Krnov on 11 November. Several dozens or hundreds of protesters were waiting for him here in the square. Two of them were taken to the maid's room for no major reason. I read that you subsequently requested an explanation of this procedure, and the Regional Police Commissioner gave an order to investigate the police progress. Second, in my opinion, a far more serious case of unauthorized police procedure took place on 17 November in Prague. Civic activist Otakar Gemund Gemund intended to attend that day's protests in the places where President Zeman was to be present. He could not reach him at the National Class, before Karolin and subsequently at Albertov was then legitimized for no reason, and it was evident from the police's speeches that they had targeted him and that he had been followed by the police on that day! Mr van Gemund did not even express his views on the President, for he was taken from Albertov by police for questioning at Bartholomew Street station and was released after two hours of waiting. Anything can be thought of as Mr vana Gemund, who is a well-known civil activist. However, the form of protest he chose was not illegal, and there was no reason for the police to act in this way. I'd like to ask you this. Are the conclusions of the police investigation against two protesters in Krnov known yet? In this case, was the police's procedure justified and adequate in your opinion? Will the police's procedure also be investigated in the event of the arrest of Otakar Gemundo Gemund? Have you or the police president taken any action in this regard? Do you, Minister, have any information as to why the police acted in this manner? What consequences do you intend to draw from this case if it is confirmed that Mr. vana Gemund's police have illegally followed and illustrated and detained him for no reason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u138	I thank Mrs Černochová, who will be answered in writing. Mrs Pecková's 11th interview has been withdrawn. Following is the twelfth interview by Mrs Jana Pastuchová, who will interpel the Minister of Health in the matter of Heart Day. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u139	Thank you for the floor, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to ask - I have learned from the media that on September 29, 2014, the Heart Day event actually took place throughout the Republic. I don't consider this at all, on the contrary, prevention. However, one of the events was organized by the General Faculty Hospital in Prague, which was to be funded by the Ministry of Health. According to the information available, this event should cost more than three million, which I think, given the situation at the Ministry of Health, which fights for every crown, is somewhat above standard. By letter of 7 November, I addressed the Director of the General Faculty Hospital, Mrs Dana Jurásková, asking for the final budget of this event. Ms. Director Jurásková informed me by letter of 2 December that she would provide me with a full report on the action including the final budget when it was completed. It's December 11th, and I still don't have that information. I wonder what activities and with which results were realized, how many people were actually involved. I am convinced that every citizen of our Republic can be checked for his healthy heart, with his district doctor. So he doesn't have to go to the tent in front of the hospital. Moving and not smoking is valuable advice, but it shouldn't cost millions in my opinion. I would therefore like to ask you, as the highest representative of the Ministry of Health, which provided a subsidy for this event, from which sources the action has been financed and whether and how you control the effectiveness of the funds spent at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u140	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová, and please the Minister of Health. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Heart Day project is concerned, it actually took place in September of this year and was supported within the priorities of the Health 2020 strategy, a programme announced by the World Health Organisation, to which the Czech Republic also applied. Within this programme, it is precisely screening programmes, prevention programmes, programmes to promote healthy lifestyles that are of great importance. Because, although it does not seem like it, not every citizen in the Czech Republic is as erudized as some Members in the Chamber of Deputies, although we know that we should move, even though we know that we should investigate some laboratory parameters that may be risky, so unfortunately not everyone knows. However, I am convinced, like the World Health Organization, and like the Health 2020 strategy, that there is never enough prevention in this area. The event was financed from a grant, one of the many grants provided by the Ministry of Health for similar events. Like you said, the main organizer was the General Faculty Hospital, but she didn't get involved alone. It was a global event within the Czech Republic, where geographically it was the provision of this event not only in Prague, but also in Pilsen, Brno, Olomouc and Ostrava, where other faculty hospitals were co-sponsors. The event took place directly in the premises of these faculty hospitals and at the same time in so called. educational tents in city centers. During this one day, a total of 10,000 citizens were handed out leaflets that informed them what to do and about a healthy lifestyle. Directly within these tents, more than 3000 citizens have undergone blood pressure measurements, laboratory tests that have presented them with cholesterol results, and blood glucose results. And I must say that even directly from these tents, about ten citizens were actually taken to hospital because of the enormously high blood pressure levels that threatened these people. The total budget of this event was approximately CZK two and a half million. And I really need to see if we already have the detailed budget at the Ministry of Health or not. The moment we have it, I'm sure we'll be happy to provide it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u142	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not have an additional question, so we will continue with another interview, in which Mr Daniel Korte will interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on the financial contributions of the Czech Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, as you are aware, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency is operating on the Palestinian Authority. The Agency is the UN specialising in helping Palestinian refugees, while the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is working for refugees from all over the rest of the world. This agency operates in the Palestinian territories of the school, the hospital, provides social services. In addition, it artificially increases, respectively. It maintains the number of refugees to justify their existence, it is crediblely documented that Hamas, a terrorist organisation internationally recognized, launched its rockets from the sites of the schools operated by UNRWA during the summer war in Gaza. [[17.10 hours]] Through UNRWA, he was supplied with weapons and weapons systems, and I myself saw a documentary when in the schoolyard the Palestinian boys in battledress with machine guns in their hands and shouting death to Israel! practicing sneaking around, all under the supervision of teachers from UNRWA. Dear Minister, what amount does the Czech Republic contribute to the operation of UNRWA, and who and how does it control what these funds are actually issued for?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u144	I thank Mr Korte and ask the Secretary of State for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u145	I would just like to point out in my reply at the beginning that the assistance we provide, where we use the Agency for Assistance to Palestinian Refugees in the Middle East, i.e. this humanitarian organisation has been provided since the year - I have had data here since 2008, but, as far as I know, it has been provided since 1996, so the Czech Republic has been providing assistance to Palestine since 1996. I have had sums here since 2008, when the Czech Republic provided, for example, for the reconstruction of a Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon 3 million, 3.5 million. Despite this Palestinian Refugee Assistance Agency, in 2009, it was 10 million, it was help and recovery in connection with the conflict in Gaza that took place at the time, in 2010, it was 3 million. for social and educational needs, 2011 - 2.5 million, 2012 - 4 million. and Palestinian refugees were granted 2.5 miles. in 2012. Similarly, a total of 4 million were provided in 2013. a Palestinian autonomous territory of 2.5 million, i.e. in 2013. And now in 2014, we provided immediate medical assistance as a result of the conflict in Gaza, where there was a great need for thousands of wounded. For bandage material, splints, medications and disinfectants we provided 3 miles. Kč. So these are the funds provided through the UN Agency for Assistance to Palestinian Refugees. And I'm just saying, it's not something new. It is something that we provide permanently, and at present it has been provided mainly in connection with the fact that there has been a large number of injured and affected by the last conflict. I repeat, the crushing part went to bandage material, splints, drugs and disinfectants. As far as I know, the Ministry's employees are in direct contact with the people we pass it on to, and there is actually a regular way of verifying how these funds are being handled. Of course, we are not the only country that provides this. We are also working with a number of other countries here, and I can say that we are also dealing with the scope of assistance at our ministerial meetings and, of course, we are also dealing with the way in which we are guaranteed that aid really comes into the hands of those who need it, and there is no other way of using any part. And recently - and also during the last visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories - we talked about this, actually, about the importance of control. I think that this is, on the one hand, the help that we are providing, so it is certainly not necessary that it is in dispute with Israel's position, which, I think, can be said to be very much of an interest in this matter, and in the case of Palestinian territories where I have discussed this with the Foreign Minister, the President, and part of those talks was that I have told him that the EU states want the next time to be a very thorough check on how the EU funds are being handled. This, of course, had to do with what appeared in connection with the recent events, when it was found that a large number of funds were poured into the concrete that was used to build tunnels. I asked the Foreign Minister how they were able to secure a control mechanism for the future, which would guarantee that something similar would not happen tomorrow, and I said that even the creation of such a control is a prerequisite for providing funds in a similar way in the future as it was, because, of course, it is a crucial thing that no EU country has an interest in contributing to building something similar, or is not interested in repeating situations where it is found that, for example, the funds that are put on cement or concrete are then used to build similar tunnels, and that, if European aid is to continue, a similar control system must be created, otherwise, in fact, there will be no willingness to provide money and resources. So I actually agree that experience is such that it is not possible without a special control mechanism that will work and which will být be possible to continue, but I think that there is a great deal of willingness to change these things. [[Time, Minister!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u146	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u147	I think I will surprise you now, Minister, because I am satisfied with the answer, and therefore the question I had based on aristotelian syllogism, i.e. UNRWA supports Hamas's terrorist organization, the Czech Republic supports UNRWA, eo ipso, the Czech Republic supports Hamas's terrorist organization, and what you want to do about it, I am not counting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u148	Thank you. I am satisfied that Mr Korte is satisfied. And we're going to do another interview where Mr. Milan Šarapatka will be... [[Minister Zaoralek wishes to respond.]] Oh, sorry! Although Mr Korte is satisfied, the Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u149	I'm sorry, but I can't take this opportunity for the first time in my life to answer a question that hasn't been asked. [[Fun.]] For me, too, it is a chance, and I don't know, now I've been thinking quickly about some syllogism that I would disprove in the Czech Republic, but I just want to say that the Czech Republic will not support an organisation that supports Hamas, because I fear that a similar type of organization does not have a future, I believe in that space, because we believe that the only chance that is for that territory is that those who are interested in peaceful resolution of the conflict will make their way, and we will support only those who will support the peaceful resolution of the conflict. And as far as helping Palestinian refugees is concerned, we are interested in creating a system of assistance where it will be 100% guaranteed that what we provide will actually go, I don't know, children or wounded, but there is no way that it will go to some sort of arming or helping someone who actually saves resources for another conflict. I can guarantee that we have the same interest in this. If we're going to be involved, we're going to be engaged in a peaceful solution, and we're not going to let the funds put into this space contribute to escalation. That's out of the question, and I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u150	I thank both the Member and the Minister and Mr Šarapatka, who will interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek on the matter of negotiations with the British Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, on 3 November the Czech Government approved your work visit to the UK by resolution 910/2014. The government further approved that 12 participants in the military special would be covered by taxpayers' money. The official exit from this trip was your meeting with the British Minister for Science, Education, Industry and Information Nick Boles on November 6, 2014. I find it a little short on the journey of a 12-member delegation by a huge government air special. Perhaps it would be worth it if you flew on a scheduled flight between Prague and London every day. [[17.20 hours]] I would therefore like to ask a few questions: where were the other eleven members of the delegation in the meantime and what were they dealing with for taxpayers' money in the United Kingdom: with whom, for example, did the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman deal, and where is the exit from this meeting? Or who and what did the Foreign Committee chairman Karel Schwarzenberg discuss in London? And also, who were the other persons in this government delegation? If we subtract a scandalized advisor to the President of the Republic, Zdeněk Žák, who, in your opinion, has just invaded the delegation, eight are left. So who are these mysterious members of the government delegation? Are they private persons, such as Mr Tomáš Halík, along with Mrs Scarlett Rešlová or architect Bořek Šípek, whose benches now buy Czech cities for 350 grand? Another member of this government delegation in quotation marks was, for example, developer Luděk Sekyra. So, in my opinion, if we do not receive any other information, this is a flagrant misuse of government funds to travel private individuals to a private event for which a government military special was even abused. [[Attention on time.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u152	I thank the honourable Member and ask the Vice Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u153	Mr President, colleagues, let me answer that question. The journey took place on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution in the United Kingdom. The basic reason for this delegation, which was the top, which was agreed by the Prime Minister and which was also agreed in this way, was this event, which was organized by Czechoslovak students and the Embassy of the Czech Republic. That means it was an official event, not a private one. I categorically reject that. It was an event organized by the embassy of the Czech Republic. On this occasion, I met with the Minister for Trade, Innovation and Education, who is in charge of the policy of linking education to business. The originally planned meeting with the British counterpart of the Minister for Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation was eventually cancelled due to the utilization of the counterpart. Now to your questions. Members of the delegation were Ambassador Michal Žantovský, Daniel Herman as Minister of Culture, Karel Schwarzenberg as Chairman of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Dagmar Havlová, who ultimately did not fly for health reasons, former Prime Minister and former Commissioner Vladimír Špidla. Other people you spoke of were not part of the delegation, however, he flew there - only there, back to his - Luděk Sekyra, who was a sponsor of this bench, which was opened at Oxford University. And this was on the proposal of our ambassador in the United Kingdom, who came up with this idea and which was adopted by the Czechoslovak community of students in Oxford. It was also Mrs. Lenka Rovná, who was the vice-rector of Charles University. Bořek Šípek - I don't know if he flew back with us after that, I really don't remember. Then there were some other guests. I want to say that he was also a journalistic escort who read nine journalists who were invited to this important event and flew with us. Since the delegation was this big, and given the fact that there was also a journalistic escort, as is the case at top events, we flew this special. Of course, I normally fly on a line at a meeting, and I even fly not business class, but I fly normal economics. As for other questions about what other members were doing, you must ask them. They had their own program, I had my own program. In terms of their own actions, there were several. The first was that the fifth was a special event at the Czech and Slovak Embassy for the 25th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution, where there was a very significant participation of people who met there from both of these states including British guests. There were two former premieres of ours and many distinguished guests. Likewise, as far as the money relating to this bench is concerned, the state did not pay for it, which was just dealt with sponsorly. I would also like to say that our ambassador came up with the idea of placing the bench. The actual implementation was then ensured by Czech and Slovak students associated with the Czechoslovak Student Association. Professor Andrew Hamilton also took part, and we conducted negotiations with him. These discussions with other important representatives of Oxford University concerned student exchange and other possible cooperation. The Templeton Prize laureate Tomáš Halík, who, as you may have noticed, was not part of the delegation, he did not fly with us and was there for his own. I mean, this event and the embassy of the Czech Republic were judged to be very successful. This conference - there were several press conferences, we were able to reach out to the media and I think that the presentation of the legacy of Václav Havel in the United Kingdom was very successful. So it's a few things that happened there. [[Attention on time.]] One day we flew in, the next day we flew out, and I personally did a lot. All members of the Czech Government were invited. Madam Secretary Válková couldn't fly for work reasons, even though she had already been reported.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u154	Thank you. Mr Šarapatka has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u155	Mr Vice-President, thank you for your explanation, a broad explanation. I just can't figure out why this resolution is called the Working Visit of the Vice-President of the Government of Bělobrádek in the UK", not the official event on the occasion of the 25th anniversary. And if it was an official event, who chose the members of the delegation and why only representatives of KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 participated there, not other parliamentary or at least coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u156	Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u157	Why it was called that - because someone suggested it and it was approved that way. I don't think it's absolutely necessary for everything to be written down in detail. As for your next question, I answered it. All members of the government of the Czech Republic were invited. There was also supposed to be a representation of coalition parties with the fact that Minister Válková, given that she had an important point in the House, could not go. There was also an advisor to the Prime Minister and former Prime Minister and Commissioner Vladimír Špidla. I'm kind of convinced that the action we flew to was organized primarily by the embassy, so it's more necessary to ask why the embassy invited some people or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u158	I thank both the Vice Prime Minister and the Member. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, will interpel further to assist the Czech Republic with refugees from the Islamic State. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, our MP received a letter from the Ecumenical Council of Churches in the Czech Republic, from which I select some passages: In recent months, members of Christian churches and religious societies have feared the cruelty with which the warriors so-called. The Islamic state is advancing against Christians and other non-Islamic minorities. Syrian Christians and their fellow believers in Iraq and Lebanon were on the verge of extinction. The Islamic State, which is campaigning in Syria and Iraq, is destroying everyone who is not one of the radical adherents of Islam. Christians are mostly part of the group for annihilation. If it is not enough to flee the places occupied by the Islamic State, men are executed, younger women become sex slaves. The Islamists have launched a final solution to the Christian question in the occupied areas. We regret to see the unconvincing and ambiguous expressions of our country's leaders against the political oppression of other regimes and ideologies. We regret that we cease to be perceived as a country that has preserved a feeling for the pain of others. Therefore, on behalf of Christians gathered in the Ecumenical Council of Churches in the Czech Republic, we urge you to take greater account of the situation of oppressed and persecuted people in your foreign policy, to try to help those suffering in these areas, and to make a unanimous decision, not only to pursue economic advantages. This was accompanied by an urgent call for the Central Council of the Evangelical Community in Syria and Lebanon to evangelical Protestant churches and organizations around the world. Here it is written, or there is a requirement for Christians in the Middle East to survive. It is no longer enough to demand equal rights and protection from persecution. Now is the time for a warning call made before Christianity from the Middle East completely disappears. There are challenges - prompting governments and all who have decision-making powers in your countries to raise awareness of the immediate dangers contained in the current situation, to take immediate steps to stop the plundering, as well as to forced organized expulsion of individuals and communities from the native region under threat of arms, to develop a long-term strategy to end cruel violence and the unsavory killing and expulsion of individuals and communities from the Middle East. The historical long-term creation of a pre-life of peaceful coexistence of various components of the Middle East society with a wall of crumbles, and this needs to be stopped urgently. Aid must be given urgently to victims of current violence. We appeal to partners to contribute to help with food and water supplies, medical and other forms of assistance to war victims and to help return to home cities, villages and churches to those who were forced to move out of their homeland or flee to neighboring countries. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, how the Czech Republic will participate in effective aid to victims of violence and how it will participate in an international campaign against the Islamic State at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u160	I thank Mr Hovorka. I'm going to ask Minister Zaorálek for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u161	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, thank you for the interview. I would like to assure Mr Hovorka that he can assure those who have turned to him that he can assure them that the Czech Republic is extremely involved in the efforts to combat the organization. Islamic State. I can prove this by attending a conference called in Paris in September on the issue of Iraq's security. I was the only representative of Central Europe, or, say, post-communist countries, there was no other. As a result, it was perceived that I represent almost the entire Central European region. Similarly, I attended a conference in Berlin. And that's why I've actually been involved, that I don't think there's any other country from those countries in Central and Eastern Europe that has so much activity, for example, towards Iraq and that territory. You were talking about humanitarian aid, I could talk about it separately, but I note that the Czech Republic is a country that responded, one that reacted quickly, and we have decided very quickly even to provide a gift to Iraq, namely to Erbíl, to the Kurdish part. By the way, just in the part where we also fought radical Islamists who participated in the genocide of the Christian group of Yazids, we not only came up with humanitarian aid, but we also came there with other material help, that as a government we provided a gift, a ammunition that the Kurd very much needed in order to defend themselves, and at the same time we worked together to ensure that Iraq, not only Erbíla, but also Baghdad, could be provided as soon as possible with other military material that they needed to defend themselves. It is precisely because the contracts and what we had to approve and suppress, push, so I actually visited Iraq, visited Baghdad, visited Jordan, visited Lebanon, and actually everywhere I had the opportunity to see the speeches and impacts of our assistance. I traveled to Lebanon precisely to talk to the representatives of Lebanon about what could be done, because Lebanon was also under attack by the so-called fighters. Islamic State. He managed to defend himself, and we discussed what the Czech Republic can do to ensure that defence continues to be effective. We were interested in what can be said, but at the same time we provided expert help. There was cooperation between the Ministry of Defence, the security forces of the Czech Republic and Lebanon. We have provided a wide range of resources that they needed for different types of radio connections, work with explosives, just a whole range of things that they needed to fight, so it has been found that we have experts who can help, or we have arrived with entrepreneurs who work in the area of security and creation, strengthening security, and have been able to offer the various facilities that they need today. Even when I was there, there was a meeting between security experts and businessmen in this area and Lebanese officials. It wasn't their first contact at the time. At the same time we were interested in which types e.g. military equipment is interesting to Lebanon and what we can deliver. You were talking about the Christian population, so Lebanon has a large part of the Christian population, and we certainly have an interest in ensuring that Christians are not gradually driven out of Lebanon as a result of this growing tension. In Jordan, I visited Zaatari refugee camp near the border with Syria, where there are 90,000 refugees on a very small area. I was there because we're going to Czech aid. Czech aid is directed at the Christian charity organizations that we give money to, and they, for example, organise the education of young women, young men, expand their skills so that they can get a job later. At the same time, I visited the hospital in Amman, where we have a team of doctors - surgeons from the Czech Republic who operate there children from a refugee camp with congenital heart defects. As I have explained there, about 6 percent of children suffer from defects that de facto make them either at risk for their lives or live an unfulfilled life. This is the form of help for which the Syřan thanked us, because these are operations that they would normally not be able to afford. Those kids are bringing it back to life. Three or four children were operated on when I arrived, another 17 were waiting. That's exactly what our teams do there. It's a form of help we provide there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u162	I am so sorry, Minister, although you speak very interestingly, your time has passed. I will ask Mr Hovorka for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u163	Minister, thank you, of course, for the involvement of the Czech Republic in humanitarian aid and, above all, in material aid. However, I have still sensed in the letter that more information is needed both at the level of government and at the level of, say, awareness of what is really happening in the territory of those countries that are controlled by the Islamic State, because the information that appears in the media is very piecey and perhaps even citizens are not fully informed about what is actually going on there, to what extent, killing communities. Next thing. I also sensed from the letter that greater activity was needed at international level. This means engaging, for example, at European level or at UN level, more in the solution, because Europe seems not to be taking this very hard and very carefully so far. So these are two things that I have then. The information we have received, a large number of refugees are located somewhere beyond the Turkish border. [[17.40 hours]] Basically, in those camps right now before winter, there's a risk that a lot of people are going to suffer from cold and hunger. So if there's any way we can help in this case and get involved in these international activities. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u164	Please, Minister, for your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u165	I believe that, in principle, your warning of how dangerous the problem is, is appropriate, and I consider it perfectly appropriate, and I am even glad to be able to respond to that and, in this way, to give information about what the Czech Republic is doing in this matter. I can assure you, although it is a bit unfortunate that we will probably be dealing with this matter repeatedly, and I can promise that I will also report to the government what the Czech Republic is doing in relation to a problem that will probably not disappear even in the coming months, because what happened is unfortunately - perhaps the best way to express it is that for the first time in history, some terrorist group has become so powerful and powerful that it has funds of such magnitude that the old Al-Qaeda did not even dream of, because it has resources from the sale of oil, and from the antiques it acquires by ambushing various temples and then selling these antiques in antiquarians, in stores in Dubai and elsewhere. And then, unfortunately, the third source of resources, it's a trade with women and girls, who's confessed a huge boom, and unfortunately, it's also quite a significant source. I know even current, official governments in Iraq and Kurdistan, even if they don't admit it, they're actually buying out hundreds of those girls and women, even if it's secretly, from those Islamists, because it's obviously better than not dealing with those terrorists, but they won't admit it because they're doing it in secret, and that's unfortunately another source of extraordinary resources they have. You all know that they got to very modern weapons by getting into barracks in Mosul and others. We didn't have such a dangerous terrorist group here, which is so massive, so well-armed and so financially equipped. That's why I think it's appropriate to talk about it, and I think I'd be happy to do it here in the House. I even accept your appeal to keep the Czech government from trying, because I think it concerns us. What is happening in Iraq also applies to the Czech Republic in Syria and we have a duty to do so. So thank you for the interview, and I don't think it's the last time we talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u166	I thank the Minister for his reply. Mr. Jiří Petrů will give the 16th interview to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the financing of events from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u167	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, for the members of the Government, information was prepared by the Road and Motorways Directorate in September entitled Overview of transport constructions with the expected start in 2014 to 2016 and their financing from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Unfortunately, I have to say that according to this material, the South Moravian Region has the most serious investment for these years compared to other regions. In the South Moravian Region, 3 percent of the investments go to the roads and 2 percent go to the D1 events. There are virtually all important events missing in the South Moravian Region, such as the bypass in Břeclav I/55, Hodonína I/51, Mikulova I/52 and the road Bělechovice I/53. However, it is difficult to understand the position of the Road and Motorway Directorate on the bypass in Břeclav, which terminates the territorial decision in April 2016, and if the building permit is not issued, the investor's twelve-year work will go to waste and the EIA will be working for several years under the new law. In March of this year, the former Minister of Transport informed the Chamber of Deputies that the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure had allocated CZK 16 million to the preparatory work of the bypass in Břeclav this year. I ask how these funds were used by the Road and Motorway Directorate. Why doesn't the investor stage construction on objects and sections that can be realized gradually? Already partial implementation of bridges across the river Dyji and its shoulder would help transport in Břeclav, which is now possible only over a single bridge and means everyday traffic collapse. During traffic density in the centre of the city, both truck and bike, accidents occur almost every day. Minister, how do you feel about the access of the Road and Motorway Directorate to the South Moravian Region and specifically to the bypass in Břeclav? Are you gonna change that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u168	I thank the honourable Member and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you're right. The South Moravian Region is, unfortunately, less represented in the plan of the SFDI, the SFDI event. The fundamental reason is that the South Moravian Region has been ordered to abolish the principles of territorial development by the court and this fact significantly limits the possibility of accelerating the preparation of transport structures in this region, especially for the large buildings you have designated, R52, R55, R43. The Region is preparing for the acquisition of new principles of territorial development and the Ministry of Transport is working closely together on this plan. In this way, they can continue to prepare primarily, virtually. only actions that have previously issued territorial decisions. It can only be built on the basis of building permits. Most of the buildings aren't. I/55 Břeclav, I/51 Hodonín, R52 Mikulov and I/53 Bělechovice. At the same time, it is not expected that these building permits would be obtained under legal authority by the end of 2016, so they are not part of the overview of transport constructions with the expected start in 2014 to 2016. The important road bypasses of Znojmo on I/38 and Lechovic on I/53 are prepared for the start in 2015. For both constructions are issued in legal power building permits for decisive buildings of the main route. The procurement documentation for the selection of the contractor of both buildings is being processed. Also on the government list of buildings of September 2014 is the key construction I/42, the large city circuit Brno, the construction of Žabovřeská I, where today it is one of the main narrow places in Brno. Prerequisite to start in 2016. The construction will connect the realized writing tunnel and the realized tunnels Dobrovský, which will complete the western part of the large city circuit. I would like to stress and I must admit that unfortunately, Brno's ŘSD was most affected by the personnel situation, and one of the main tasks for the new director of the Road and Motorway Directorate is the stabilization of the Brno plant and the start of the work there. I would like to assure you, despite what I have quoted here from the prepared report, that it is my intention as a former South Moravian to help the situation in this region. I think if we can do some things first, like we want to do it, I'll do everything we can to do, like move into the current SFDI plan from some items where we won't be prepared if we're set up in the South Moravian region. About the Břeclav bypass. The building has a territorial decision issued in legal power, and we want to keep it. The preparation of the construction as a whole is complex because the bypass passes through Natura 2000 territory and this makes the matter extremely difficult. The territorial decision wants to fix the Road and Motorway Directorate by issuing a building permit for part of the construction. These are water supply transfers that have already completed the property settlement, and during the second quarter of 2015, we expect a building permit to be issued, so it could fix the entire construction. The bypass in Břeclav is definitely one of our priorities. The 16 million that were earmarked from the SFDI were intended primarily for the property preparation of documentation and documentation of partial parts of the bypass. Of course, we will also try to stage construction and speed things up, but we want the territorial decision not to fall on us, and we will fix it by issuing a building permit. And otherwise, for your information, once we have a more stable situation at the Brno ŘSD, it's already a priority for them, we're going to want to move it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u170	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u171	Thank you, Minister. He named it quite accurately. I'd just like to appeal, that's not a question anymore, but an appeal to really keep the territorial decision, because that's the basic thing, it's a 12-year job that had to be done by the Road and Motorway Directorate, and really by issuing a building permit only to the buildings, so the whole territorial decision is saved. The second thing is the stage construction. The whole bypass may not really be crucial to Břeclav. It only takes two thirds not to go to Austria, but they will transport from Hodonín towards Mikulov. So even that is a solution that would be very helpful, and it would be solvable. It will thus avoid the Natura and Natura can deal with the compensatory measure for the next five years as the law needs it, and the construction can be realized. So thank you, it was named exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u172	I thank both the Minister and the Member. Mr Igor Nykl, who will interpel the Minister of Health, Svatopluk Němeček, on anti-smoking law, will give the 17th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u173	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Mr Minister. The Czech Republic is the most moderate country in the regulation of smoking in Europe and is referred to as the chimney of Europe. We are both interns and I was very pleased when you joined the office, so I saw that one of your main priorities would be to prepare an amendment to the anti-smoking law, which should move the situation in the Czech Republic in a positive direction. I now learn that your proposed anti-smoking law is no longer as strict as we originally thought, where we assumed there would be a smoking ban in all of the combined diet facilities. We hear it's just a restaurant where hot food is served, it's not about bars, pubs, which I'm terribly sorry about. And I want to ask if it's true, what arguments have convinced you that we've eased it so much. Because the argument that there's going to be a decline in sales in restaurants isn't true. In England, when it happened, there were sales in those pubs. It's just a transitional period. Two. What are we going to do about the staff that works there for many hours in that smoky environment? Young people say that if you didn't smoke in bars and discos, you wouldn't smoke at all. So it would be another advantage. And then we also have remote places where there's only one pub. Somebody wants to grab a beer, but unfortunately, it's gonna be a smoker, and he's gonna go miles to get a beer? So we limit his freedom. If you'd be so kind, if it's true that the law is so moderated, then if you'd be so kind as to try to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u174	Thank you, honourable Member. And now the Minister will either please smokers or non-smokers. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I must correct the claims that have arisen. The proposal, which is yet to go into an external commentary procedure, which is essentially completed within the Ministry and which has undergone internal commentary proceedings - I will just remind you that it is not just tobacco, the whole name is the draft Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of tobacco, alcohol and other addictive substances and integrated drug policy, or it is very complex. It is true that, as part of the comments of the Association of Entrepreneurs in Hospitality, this proposal was discussed as being limited only where food is served. However, the final decision of the Ministry is such, and in this version it will go into an external commentary procedure that it will cover all so-called public catering establishments, including bars and establishments where only beverages are served. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u176	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u177	I thank the Minister for an extremely favourable report. I'm glad it's moved on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u178	And since you were both extremely quick, he will still get to Mr Mackovík, who will present today's last interview to the Minister of Health on financing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u179	Hello, Mr President, fellow ministers, colleagues. I would like to address you, Minister, with a question which concerns the financing of the medical rescue service in relation to the increase in the salary of health workers to be made from the beginning of next year. Unfortunately, while money is found in hospital medical facilities, not in full, the same money is found for the medical rescue service and its workers. I would like the Ministry of Health to take a systemic step that will be found from now on and in the future. I understand that the founder of the rescue service is the county. However, as I said before, an ambulance is a pre-hospital emergency provider, and it must also be provided under state crisis conditions, which is why I think there should be such a measure. Last year's government was able to promise to find the money at the event Thank you, we're leaving, but it didn't happen. It was a huge million-dollar expense for the county. Now the payment part isn't doing it to fill the ambulance budgets in a hundred percent. So if you could answer if you're planning any major measures on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u180	Please, Minister, the best in the end. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member. Maybe I'd split my answer into two parts. If I take that part, let's say, of a really long-term conceptual solution to the financing of the medical rescue service, I have to say here, frankly, that a definitive solution that would straighten out funding in a situation where, in my opinion, it is not long-term viable for a greater and greater burden of financing for the medical rescue service to be transferred to the region as a founder, we do not yet have and have not been able to resolve it at once within the framework of the payment decree. As for the situation for next year, according to my information, it looks like this. The Ministry of Health respected the conciliation procedure between insurance companies and individual segments where the agreement took place. I was informed that there was an agreement in the case of the medical rescue service, and we basically put this agreement in the draft payment decree. At the same time, I have been informed that there are several new performances for the medical rescue service, which should also provide funding. So, as a result, there should be enough medical emergency pay coverage to cover it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-013-135.u182	Thank you, Minister. The Member is calmed and satisfied. That was the last of the interpelations that were laid today. Thank you all, I'm ending today's meeting and interrupting this House meeting by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a good night.
