ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u1	70. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part /German press 310/ - First reading In the introductory words, I would like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to present Mr Lubomír Zaorálek first and then Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. I will ask you, Minister, to mention this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u2	Thank you. I wish you another good evening and allow me to say we are at first reading, so we should decide on the commandment to negotiate this association agreement between Ukraine on the one hand and the European Union and the Member States on the other. So I'm going to start by saying that maybe I'm going to mention what kind of association agreement is. It is, in fact, an agreement that should lead to greater political and economic relations between Ukraine and the European Union. Perhaps I could start by saying that the agreement - because it is happening, of course, with a country that is not going through a very simple situation at the moment, rather the other way around, a relatively serious economic crisis and a complex political situation, given, above all, the situation on the eastern side of Ukraine - is done by having a relatively significant suspension in it, or the elimination of a significant part for a certain period of time, because the agreement is also the result of an agreement between the negotiations of representatives of Ukraine, Russia and the European Commission. As a result of the meeting of the relevant commission, the implementation of the economic part of the agreement will be postponed until 31 December 2015. In exchange for this step, Russia has promised not to seek to impose restrictive trade measures on Ukraine in the next 15 months. This is also the result of a certain agreement between Russia, Ukraine and the European Commission. I believe that the Czech Republic should be very interested in adopting such an agreement, because we have a great interest in consolidating and stabilizing the situation in Ukraine. The reasons are as follows. I will remind you that you may not remember that Ukraine is a priority country for export policy of the Czech Republic, that we intended to participate in a wide range of programmes in Ukraine, and of course you can trade with someone, if the rules of trade are such that trade has a chance, for example, because technical standards are aligned, that they are aligned with phytosanitary, that they respect certain legal order, that is, that business and investment in that country are under certain control and have certain rules, that situation makes it possible to enforce the right. This is precisely what has not worked very well in Ukraine lately, and even recently, it has seriously deteriorated. I personally know some entrepreneurs who had to close their businesses, especially those in the eastern part of Ukraine. Of course, we would be very interested in consolidating the situation there. The Association Agreement is a de facto work agreement which should be implemented. It has to do with the fact that on the side of Ukraine, a number of steps should be taken that would make the environment much safer for Europe - I do not mean now in terms of security, but I do not mean in terms of trade and economic entrepreneurship. Another thing that seems important to me and which would be worth mentioning is that it is often said that Europe is committed here to providing some kind of assistance that goes into a rather uncertain environment. Easily, we provide some resources to a country that then ends up in the pockets of oligarchs, either Ukrainian or Russian, when we talk about gas supplies. I would like to assure that help at this point is not primarily the assistance of the European Union states, or certainly not the Czech Republic, that we would be providing some financial assistance. These are mainly issues addressed by the International Monetary Fund, the World Investment Bank, or even part of the assistance should be addressed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's the package about 11 billion they were talking about. However, the package covers a period of about seven years, and the release of any funds is linked precisely to the fact that Ukraine will be able to implement the relevant reforms, whether it concerns the area of law or the control of financial flows. [[17.10 hours]] And then there's another very significant circumstance. If the funds go for investment in infrastructure, energy, etc., they are primarily means that the Czech Republic and Czech companies could participate significantly. This means that it is not money that should disappear in non-refundable terms, but it is also certain opportunities for Czech entrepreneurs. I mention this because I attended a meeting in Kiev, where there was talk about the possibility of a contract for Czech energy during the completion of a nuclear power plant, and it would concern about 20 billion. dollars possible share of the Czech Republic in investments in the completion of the nuclear power plant. So when we talk about these means, let's also think of it as something that we could not only be able to do, but should also apply, because these are areas where we have a whole range of relatively highly skilled businesses. And I repeat, the accession agreement should create an environment where the Ukrainian side actually has to guarantee that the environment will be safe in terms of investment and future trade. It is true that the atmosphere in European countries is such that it is certainly not willing to repeat the mistakes of past years, because Ukraine's history, as we know, is also a certain history of failing political elites. And, of course, we have a number of examples of how the past investments have not actually been used effectively. Today, we have a situation in Ukraine, after all, in the fact that there were recently parliamentary elections, a government has been set up. The current president, I recall, received support that was greater than any other Ukrainian politician in the history of modern Ukraine. It can be said that the current president approached the people of both parts of Ukraine in the election, the eastern part and the Western part, which I think is quite an extraordinary thing, because that was not the case in the past, and the elections often broke Ukraine down. So the mandate, which the President in particular has at the moment, and partly also applies to the political representation arising from the elections, is quite strong. I think it is clear that today, despite all the possible reservations of the current political guarantee, there is a will to really start with the implementation of reforms that would allow Ukraine to consolidate the situation. One more thing I might have responded to at the outset. Sometimes there are such opinions that the crisis in Ukraine is the work of the European Union. I would like to assure you that I have had myself in the past - and I do not mean that now in my current position, but also as an opposition politician and Vice-President of this House - the opportunity to meet with delegations of Ukrainian politicians repeatedly, and I remember that in those past years we have heard from them repeatedly, even regardless of the political corner they came from - I remember that they were also delegations of Jaceňukův's political party or the Party of the Regions, which clearly told us that they were interested in offering them a similar association agreement, an association agreement, and they were interested in participating in it. It was certainly not that we were somehow convincing or luring them, because even on our side there was already a sound of the extent to which Ukraine was able to handle such things and how it was prepared for such reforms. And I even remember a delegation of members of the Ukrainian Verkhovná Council, who came to Prague and who persuaded, I remember, even the President of the Senate and the leadership of the House, just to make the Czech Republic feel positive about the accession or signing process. So I myself know from my own experience a number of examples that on the Ukrainian side of the entire spectrum of political representation, will and interest have been made clear. For myself, I believe that this agreement, if it would really help to consolidate the situation, to calm down and to solve Ukraine's economic problems, is in the interests of the Czech Republic mainly because if there were simply a collapse or a worsening of the catastrophic situation in Ukraine, it could lead, for example. to the next tide of a large part of the Ukrainian population, for example, right here in the Czech Republic, which are problems that would eventually catch up with us anyway. That means, I repeat, we have a number of reasons from economic to migration to stabilize Ukraine. If this agreement contributes to this, it will be a big plus for stability of development in the Czech Republic. That is why I think there are good reasons to send this treaty to the relevant committees for first reading and start talking about its ratification in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u3	Thank you, Minister Zaorálek. Now I ask for the opening words of the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. [[He's not interested.]] The minister doesn't want to, okay. I therefore ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, I would like to speak as rapporteur on this international treaty. So we are at first reading and I confess that I will speak in a similar spirit as the Foreign Minister Zaorálek spoke. I know he's already finished his Senate rehearsal today, because today, December 10th, we've had a meeting of this international treaty and the Senate. However, there they have already recommended 52 votes to ratify this treaty and we are only at first reading. We're talking about what we're talking about here. the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine, but the correct name is the Government proposal to approve the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part. I'm going to add some things that the Foreign Minister hasn't just said, I'm sure I'll be more brief. But I'm going to say the procedure of how the situation developed around the negotiation of this association agreement. This House press 310 has already joined us on 4 September of this year. At present, relations between the European Union and Ukraine are based on a partnership and cooperation agreement which entered into force in 1998. At the 13th Summit held in Paris in 2008, the leaders of the European Union and Ukraine agreed that the Association Agreement should follow the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement - this very agreement. The signing of the agreement was originally foreseen at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius in November 2013 - probably many of us have a fresh memory of this - when the government of Ukraine suspended this move on 21 November. However, we remember what the reaction was to Ukraine, when major protests broke out in the country, resulting in the escape of President Janukovyč from the country and the provisions of the transitional government. As the Minister said a moment ago, there have been new parliamentary elections and a legitimate government of Ukraine has already been established. Meanwhile, the European Parliament, which was on 16 September of this year, also expressed its agreement with the Association Agreement, which was also ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament in Kiev. For the sake of repetition, I will say here the number of MEPs who have approved this agreement. There were 535 pros, 127 cons, and 35 abstained. I will also mention how the Czech MEPs voted. Specifically, 16 were pros, 5 against. The MEPs voted against Kellner. [[Laughing in plenary]] Keller. Let me repeat: it was MEP Keller for ČSSD, then MEP Mach for Free and three MPs for KSČM. [[with a smile]] [[17.20 hours]] To 1. This year's 12th vote in favour of this agreement was ratified by the following countries - a total of ten. To be clear, I'll name them for you. It was Bulgaria, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Sweden. The conclusion of an agreement for the European Union will be adopted only after the agreement has been agreed by the European Parliament and ratified by all Member States. So let me repeat, there are only ten of them at the moment. I'll give my personal opinion as rapporteur. I also agree that it will help the legitimate government, which is now in Ukraine, to negotiate this agreement so as to have something to lean on. And I would say that it is also in our interest not to overstep, but to express the clear view on which we are on, and therefore it is in the general interest of the European Union and of our Czech Republic. As rapporteur for this press at first reading, I would like to recommend the referral of this treaty, this agreement, until further reading, with a recommendation similar to the organizational committee of the commandments to the foreign committee. And to those who have listened to me, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u5	I thank the Member for her report and open a general debate to which Mr René Číp is first signed up, then Mr Leo Luzar. - Excuse me, Mr. Okamura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't really want to perform very much, not even briefly, but after hearing the views of the Minister of Foreign Affairs here, as he started talking about the association agreement, about Ukraine, of course, I have no choice but to make a brief statement on this. When we are talking about a treaty on Ukraine's association with the European Union, it would be good to remember in at least one of the two sentences what actually triggered the bloody events in this country, which was the cause of the rise of the Nazis and fascists, which led to the separation of Crimea and the civil war in the east of Ukraine. In this context, I would like to quote two sentences from the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine: the European Union makes deepening cooperation and possible financial support conditional on Ukraine making tangible progress in the areas of democratic elections, functional justice and economic reform. And then there's a pretty important sentence that the essential condition is so-called. essential elements, this means respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms. And it was the policy of the European Union that tried to drive a wedge between Russia and Ukraine. Let us remember that it is not just Putin Russia, but Russia, which has subsidized Ukraine in spite of the corrupt Ukrainian governments for a long time, and in my opinion also because it sees Ukraine as essentially the cradle of Russia. Ukraine is basically the original Kiev Russian and adjacent areas, which, if not part of Russia, belonged to Austria-Hungary. Subsequently, the European Union, pushed by the United States of America, decided to try to destabilize this country and transfer it to its sphere of influence. We are only talking about Rusko in this context, but let us be clear that, first and foremost, a large part of the people of Ukraine themselves perceived this and perceived this as a threat. The adoption of the Association Agreement is primarily a symbolic act which says that this country is to become a part of the European Union in the future. The problem, however, is that there is no money for the whole process, because the International Monetary Fund just said yesterday that in addition to the $17 billion it already has, it takes another $15 billion to be shared by the European Union states, which, of course, the EU states do not agree with and have a problem with. I ask: Can anyone responsible imagine Ukraine becoming part of the European Union as we know it in the long run? That it would be spread not only to the free trade zone but also to the free movement zone? Can anyone imagine how that would shake our labour market? Only the abolition of visas would result in the migration of hundreds of thousands, or rather millions, of people not saying the free movement of persons, with everything related to this, including subsequent crime. By the way, I met with the Ambassador of Ukraine who informed me - for those of you who do not know - that average unemployment in Ukraine is currently 17 percent. The Czech Republic as one of the most economically advanced Slavic countries and, at the same time, geographically closest to the West, would probably receive the largest immigration intervention, which would most likely result in at least the social destabilization of our ten million-dollar country. Let's not get illusions about Ukraine. It's not just a country of Democrats and Europhiles fighting evil Russians. It is a country where there are not only a lot of honest and hardworking people, but also a country that is torn apart economically, politically and morally. There's stealing and murdering all over the place. It's also being cheated at the highest level of state. Members are under duress and seem not to be able to vote democratically. The government of Ukraine seized power on the basis of a violent blood coup that triggered civil war in the country. In our view, we cannot simply sign agreements with those who murder citizens of their own country until they change their approach, as the association agreement asks, and as I have quoted here the text. We certainly do not see these advances there at the moment. For all these reasons, therefore, we cannot support this agreement in the Dawn movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u7	I thank President Okamur. Mr René Číp is also duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss further Ukraine's approach to the European Union. But what kind of Ukraine is it? Is it Ukraine, including Crimea, Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republic, or without them? Is it Ukraine with a legally elected political representation, where everything has been going on for at least a few years according to the standard democratic processes that the European Union has been so fond of swaying? Hasn't anything really happened there recently against the Constitution of Ukraine? Is it a country with a majority political consensus and a real interest in further accession to the European Union, or is it just the opinion of some of the leaders? Why is the European Union in such a hurry to bring Ukraine closer? As I recall, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, it took many years for any further convergence or accession of Central European countries to be dealt with politically at all. Is the European Union economically able to accept Ukraine as a full member of the community over the course of several years? If so, will it be after or before Turkey's entry? Let us take into account that there are already considerable differences between countries in the current composition of the European Union, and if Turkey and Ukraine should enter the European Union shortly, we must worry about what this will bring to the economic situation of the European Union. There will be a significant reduction in the average economic performance of the regions and, at the same time, they will reach much less from the current European 27, but probably most regions of Turkey and Ukraine. Moreover, given the size of these countries and the population, I believe that the European Union will have to pay real attention to these countries in order to avoid a disruption of economic and social inclusion. [[17.30 hours]] But let's go back to the beginning. At the end of 2013, President Janukovyč refused to sign an association agreement with the European Union, and in November that year in Ukraine riots broke out first concentrated in Kiev on Majdan. There have been many violent events that are still not sufficiently and objectively explained. These events led to Janukovyčův's fall and his escape to Russia. Then, in areas with the supremacy of the Russian population in Crimea and in the east of Ukraine, locals began to protest against the new self-proclaimed leadership of the country in Kiev. The independence of Crimea in the local referendum and then his application for admission to the Russian Federation met with the locals with a positive reception, since they historically considered themselves a majority part of Russia. The donation act performed by Nikita Chruščov in 1954 had no meaning in the collapse of the Soviet Union, but after that there were again attempts to join the territory to Russia. This connection in 2014 cannot be seen as an intervention in the borders established after World War II, since it took place up to nine years after that on the basis of the decision of the country's highest representative and had no international impact. Former so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. On Donbas, the situation is historically somewhat different from Crimea, but the key thing is that unfortunately today the security conditions in this area are very bad. Clashes between separatists, criminal elements and armed forces of the Ukrainian police and army continue despite various signed ceasefire agreements. Up to 1.5 million inhabitants of the region fled to Russia and another 600,000 to the west of Ukraine. The inhabitants of Donetsk and Luhan region are not provided with basic needs. Officials do not receive wages and pensioners. Today's Ukraine is simply divided - nationally, politically, religiously and economically. Its GDP as perhaps the only country in the former Eastern bloc is now not even reaching the figures from before the Soviet Union's collapse. The country has once experienced a major change in the form of the Orange Revolution during its independence, but the benefits of this change were not long-lasting, as the citizens themselves decided to nullify this change in the next elections. Nowhere is it given that it will not be the same in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u9	Mr. Ambassador, I'm very sorry to interrupt you, but I'm going to ask this big crowd over there to move into the lobby because it's very disturbing to hear your speech. I think you deserve to give your speech in peace as any other Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u10	Thank you. Finally, I would like to say that I am not in principle against further enlargement of the EU, or, if the European Union is already here, it is a positive result of its further enlargement, which, however, should ensure long-term stability on the continent and also peace. However, it is necessary for us to act with utmost discretion and allow each country time to profile, if there are already such fundamental and major changes. As elected representatives of the Czech Republic, we are responsible for the decisions we make to our citizens. At this point, I myself am not prepared to vote in favour of further Ukraine's accession to the European Union, as I do not now consider this to be a good thing for the citizens of the Czech Republic. And in the very finals, I therefore propose that we discontinue the discussion of this press in accordance with the Rules of Procedure indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u11	I am now inviting to the microphone of the next speaker, Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u12	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make this brief. Today's press has been informed that Ukraine is on the verge of bankruptcy. The European Union's assistance in the order of $4.6 billion already received by Ukraine was insufficient. Ukraine requires another 2.7 billion dollars. The International Monetary Fund modified the cost outlook for Ukraine to $17 billion, pointing out that if the situation in Ukraine continues to be as serious next year as it is this year, Ukraine will require an additional $15 billion. In the light of these data, which I believe the economists of the International Monetary Fund have considered very well before they have been published, is the information that we are discussing today from this treaty that the economic impact on the Czech Republic is not expected within the framework of its commitments to the European Union. I note that today the International Monetary Fund has already called on Europe to sign up for the billions that need to be put into Ukraine. I will take a small excursion into the history of the Czech Republic. Remember the period when the Czech Republic decided on association with the European Union. Most of the citizens were in favour. I believe that most of Ukraine's citizens are also in favour, because most of Ukraine's citizens expect the European Union to bring stability - mainly economic stability - to a heavily torn country. Let us remember how the Czech Republic was disillusioned by the negotiation within the economic area of the Czech Republic's accession to the European Union. How many times have the House of Honor discussed here on this soil that association agreements have been misnegotiated, and that is why we must and we are obliged and that. When you read the contract you have before you and its points, you will find that we want the Ukrainian people, so hard pressed into a corner, to make similar conclusions that they will also be disillusioned after joining the European Union. They will also be - I don't want to say disappointed, but they will be mad at the European Union for not keeping promises. And what is this treaty about? Especially about promises. The European Union has decided to build airlocks and, in my opinion, offers Ukrajinec what they cannot keep. That's one of the worst things you can offer to a person who expects help. Promise him something you can't keep. Or you do not want to, because the economic situation of the European Union is not enough to help. Even the European Union labour market is not ready for a massive surge of applicants from Ukraine, who, thanks to this treaty, which also mentions the movement of labour within the European Union and offers it as a starting point, are not willing to accept thousands more people going to work in Europe. And let us say in the current economic situation of Ukraine and in the problems they have, it will not only be the experts Europe wants, but it will mainly be people who are unhappy who do not know how to make a living in their own country anymore. That's a problem we can't deal with. Let's just say what we're going to do when that Ukraine starts demanding what their government promises them on the basis of the association agreements we're offering them to take. What if they start demanding what we're here to offer and promise? And they interpret it a little differently than we're legally saying here, and we're putting it off, and it can be, maybe that's how it's gonna be, and maybe in the horizon of 2015, in the horizon of 2017, 2019. No, these people, by signing something, will expect immediate solution and immediate assistance on their territory. And in my opinion, Europe is unable to do this and is unable to offer it. That is why I say for myself: I do not want to promise the Ukrainian people something that Europe is unable to deliver. When Europe is able to deal with this and has a partner against itself who is economically, organised and territorially dealt with with his problems and is able to think more rationally and negotiate his own treaties in the future European Union, then yes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u13	Thank you. Now we have three factual points to deal with. Then with priority rights, the Minister. So here we have Mr Benešík, Mr Šarapatka, and then Mr Schwarz. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u14	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, Minister, we have heard from several speakers what the Ukrajinec want and do not want. There have been elections in Ukraine, and the elections have clearly shown that Ukraine wants such an agreement, it wants to be closer to the European Union. By approving this agreement, we will not include Ukraine in the European Union, but we will open the door for closer cooperation and we will be able to help Ukraine become the country we all want to see it. Not a country broken politically, socially, economically, but a country stable and a country that can bring something to Europe. For this reason, too, KDU-ČSL supports the adoption of this Agreement. [[17.40 hours]] As far as membership of any country in the European Union is concerned, it is clear that any candidate country must fulfil the so-called. Copenhagen access criteria. Even if they are fulfilled, then the membership of any country is decided by all other Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic. Discussing whether the first Turkey or Ukraine are completely odd. Each country simply has to meet the accession criteria. As for the influx of Ukrajinec into the Czech Republic, who, of course, has a preferential right, I feel that way, are Volyně Čech. We have actively approached them, and as far as I know, in the current situation of people who are close to the Czech Republic mentally, in the language, they feel like a Czech minority in Ukraine, so far less than a hundred have volunteered to consider moving to us. So please let us moderate our emotions and expressions about the influx of millions of Ukrajinec into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u15	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I beg you, Mr Šarapatka, in fact. Mr Schwarz will be ready and then Vice-President Filip. Everything is factual. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Minister. I like people in Ukraine. Lately, I've traveled there, too, maybe unlike you, three times. However, I would like to ask how the Minister intends to implement this association agreement, so that it is not just a idle gesture in a situation where the country is economically completely broken, when it does not control part of its territory, and when we have heard here that it will need 17 plus 15 billion, another billion dollars to begin anything at all in Ukraine. Here we have the recent story of Greece, when the Member States of the European Union were gnashing their teeth when they were to bail out Greek debts. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u17	Thank you. Now, to Mr. Schwarz's microphone, please, his two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u18	Good evening, Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. I would suggest a procedural proposal. I would ask if we would support my proposal to interrupt this point by Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u19	Since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on it now. There's an objection, please. Mr. Stanjura with an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u20	Mr Schwarz cannot be angry with me, but in a factual reminder he cannot propose a procedural vote. It's just not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u21	Now, please, Mr Filip. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u22	Madam President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, just in fact what Mr Benešík said here. When we discuss the foreign policy activities of the Chamber of Deputies, it might be more appropriate for him to plan a trip to the US as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs to Ukraine and, for example, report on the situation. Surely no one will be angry that he will deal with the committee members of the newly elected Members of the Ukrainian Parliament and present a report on this trip. I have a second point, however, on the presentation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I am convinced - and I think, Minister, that you should answer how the Ukrainian Government responded to the statement by the current President of the European Commission, Juncker, that there will be no support for his functioning as the President of the Commission, which would lead to the enlargement of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u23	Thank you. Now with Mr Benešík in fact. I beg your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u24	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on European Affairs is planning a trip to Ukraine - first of all. And since this trip will take place, if it takes place next year, I am taking advantage of the option and next week, I will have a meeting as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs with one new Member of the Ukrainian Parliament, who will be in the Czech Republic. Coincidentally, it's a designed minister of education. That's just for the record. Yes, we're working on it, we're doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u25	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Now with priority rights, Minister Zaorálek, then Mr Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u26	Thank you. I do not want to speak for long, I will only warn the House that the Association Agreement is not a pre-emption of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Czechoslovak Federal Republic signed an association agreement with the European Union in 1991! So how do we talk about these commitments and all that... And be aware that the Czech Republic itself entered the Union only in 2004. Please don't get me wrong. The Treaty is not about the visa-free regime at all. She doesn't even care about that. So just so that the debate doesn't go on topics that are not the subject of an association agreement, because the retention agreement doesn't really deal with membership. At this point, I assure you, there is neither a table nor a membership of the European Union nor an entry into NATO. At this point, we all know that there is a situation in Ukraine that does not allow a similar debate. There's no point in talking about it. And at the same time, when someone's talking about there's obligations that can't be fulfilled, it would be good for him to say exactly that. There are billions to argue here, so let's see what the real situation in Ukraine is. Ukraine is not indebted as Greece, it was 161 percent, Ukraine is less indebted in terms of long-term debt than, for example, France, which has 89 percent. Ukraine is at the level of Great Britain and Germany in terms of long-term debt. The problem, of course, is the low performance of the Ukrainian economy. As far as money is concerned, I can assure you that this is not the money that should be paid by the Czech Republic and not by the European Union, but the current debt is addressed by the International Monetary Fund, solved by the Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The atmosphere in Europe is such that there is constant talk that no form of aid can go to Ukraine today without guaranteeing that the money will not end in the pockets of the oligarchs. This means that when I was talking about the possibility of helping Donbasa in the future and so on, I can tell you that there is no willingness today, for example. Putting money into Ukrainian energy if the government is unable to install gas metering at the border between Russia and Ukraine. That's a subject that's constantly talked about. I think the government realizes that the situation will not happen again. What was possible in the past is not possible today. I repeat - this is an association agreement and let us not talk about matters that would prejudice membership. That's not on the table right now. As far as the recommendation for travel to Ukraine is concerned, I think that is a good recommendation. I think it would be right for Parliament to deal directly with the situation in Ukraine. I've been there six times myself, and next week I'll be there again. I should speak to both President Porošenk, Prime Minister and Secretary of State. I can assure you that no European politician of Ukraine will make any false promises today. No one's gonna dare to do that today. The main work today must be done by the Ukrajinec themselves. [[17.50 hours]] I said here that the association agreement is basically a job agreement. It is also an agreement on matters that must be changed in Ukraine, and not only in economic matters, but also in the area of the functioning of justice, the functioning of police, security. It is not possible to work there normally with a state that will not have the civilised solution to the country's defence issues. There's just no way that there are different armed warriors in that country that are paid differently. What we want in Ukraine is for it to become a civilized state and for the government to lead the country to be a truly stable country with a legal system to be respected, with a right that will be enforceable. A country with which it will be possible to consider any economic cooperation or trade at all, which will be guaranteed and in which it will be sure that the companies will not fall and disappear tomorrow. This is actually a challenge. And I repeat, the Czech Republic signed this in 1991.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u27	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone of Vice-President Filip, who is logged in with a factual remark. He will prepare himself with the de facto Mr Šarapatka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u28	Thank you, Madam President. I, Minister, do not confuse the association agreement and accession. No way. I want to hear from you how they reacted to Mr. Juncker's performance in Ukraine. If they've responded at all. And please, let us not confuse concepts with impressions, because, of course, the demand that we make here is clearly given to fulfill the most basic conditions for the agreement to be valid at all. How long will the agreements in force be signed by this government? Will it be valid for four hours, as was the agreement with the EU foreign ministers in Maidan? Or five hours to extend it when the election's over? Or one day? We need to know that. Because it's not funny, it's a serious step. And I note that I have a number of friends in Ukraine and I support the existence of a real democratic state in Ukraine. But how am I supposed to look at someone signing a legally elected president, even if a minority, in Minsk, doesn't deliver on the agreements. They will even denounce them in a one-sided way, saying that there will be no decentralization of the country, and they will say that immediately after the election. How am I supposed to look at that? The agreements he said and signed with the EU foreign ministers, with representatives of the Russian Federation, apply with representatives of the so-called Russian Federation. separatists from Donetsk and Luhan region? How am I supposed to believe that this agreement will be fulfilled, that it will not be used against the Czech Republic, in addition to the European Union? Because we guarantee among other things -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u29	Vice-President, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u30	I'm sorry, thank you. I think I've asked enough questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u31	Thank you, and I now ask Mr Šarapatka to take action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Some of the answers to my questions have already been answered here. I just wanted to say to the 17 and 15 billion, the 15 that should be paid by the EU or its Member States, so I quote this from the Financial Times, so I guess they were wrong there. And yet let me express my sincere regret that Mr Schwarzenberg is not here, who has recently been exiled to Majdan and would certainly have much to say on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u33	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I would now like to comment on Mr Stanjura's objection. I have now looked into the Rules of Procedure to check that your objection was justified. If I quote Section 60, a procedural proposal relating to the way in which a item of the programme is dealt with shall also be regarded as a factual remark. So, after consulting the legislation, we should vote on this proposal without debate. [[Member Stanjura speaking from the O.R.]] Ambassador, if you don't object to my progress, then... please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u34	If that's what you want, I'll object. But I'm missing the logic. The procedural proposal will be considered as a factual comment. But that doesn't mean that in a factual reminder you can make a procedural proposal. That's perfectly logical. I can't believe the fundamentals of logic aren't clear to everyone that we have to argue about it. I would therefore like to object to this legislation, if it does not pass, to have the legislation draw up a written opinion on how to deliver it to all of us, let us be clear. I'm just missing the logic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u35	I'm sure we'll do that, Mr. Ambassador. I will now vote on your objection to the President's procedure. I'll call everyone from the lobby. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of accepting the opposition to the President's procedure? Who's against it? He got held up? I state that it is a vote with order number 155, to which 165 are registered, for 60, against 24. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. Therefore, we will now vote on Mr Schwarz's proposal to suspend this item by Friday. I would like to clarify the proposal if, Mr Schwarz, you could specify exactly when.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u36	Friday after block three readings. Abort until Friday after block three readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u37	Okay, thank you. We will therefore vote on the interruption of this point by Friday after the third reading block. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 156, to which 165 are registered, for 56, against 44. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. So we will now continue to discuss this point. With a factual remark, I have Mr Šarapatka here. Therefore, with priority right, I have here Mr Schwarz whether he insists on his priority right. It's not like that. I will now ask Mr Okamura to take action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u38	Only very briefly for the defender of the EU-Ukrainian Association Agreement. I've already made my point here with our complaints, but maybe I can just quote one sentence that's part of the deal. It is a fight against organised crime, while facilitating the visa regime and taking gradual steps towards visa-free travel. I would really say during the Dawn movement that we would like Ukraine to take those steps first, to fight organised crime and other steps towards real democracy, and then it would only be good to proceed to some gradual easing. In the case of Ukraine, we cannot imagine the other way. I've already said the reasons in my opening act. The protection of the Czech Republic, the protection of our citizens, the protection of our labour market and the protection of the security of our citizens in the Czech Republic must come first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u39	Thank you, too. I also have Mr Gabal and Mr Číp with Mr Gabal's actual application. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u40	Hello. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I wonder if I really sit in the Czech Parliament because I hear an analysis of Moscow's interests, Ukrainian interests and others. It must be said that, in terms of our interests, Ukraine's security, democratic and European association is the key to our security. The means, assistance, transfer of know-how that we spend to stabilize Ukraine, and the association does not mean membership, are the means and efforts we make to ensure our security and security in the eastern direction. Everything else, the view of Russia and everyone else, I think is secondary. And if we are to deal with what we really need, then it is to be a stable, democratic and positively European-associated country east of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u41	Thank you for respecting the time limit and now please, with the de facto Mr Číp. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u42	Thank you again for the floor. I would once again like to make my proposal to suspend this item for an indefinite period under Section 63 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u43	Mr President, if I look at Section 63, the Member may put forward proposals in the debate on this matter, that is to say, adjournment, rejection, not interruption. That's why I'm saying, that's the problem. To adjourn, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u44	To adjourn - I will say it once more - before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u45	Okay, so you propose a adjournment of this item and you propose a vote before the end of the debate. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. We will now continue the debate. I have here with Mr Stanjura's point of fact. - With priority rights, then, Mr Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u46	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, fellow Members, allow me to ask you to take a break from the Dawn Movement during two hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-010-070.u47	Okay, I'm interrupting today's meeting until 9 o'clock tomorrow, when we're going to proceed according to the approved program. Have a good evening.
