ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. At the same time, I will interrupt the meeting within 14 hours of 6 minutes, which means a five-minute break, and I will ask the President of the MPs to come up to me. Thank you. [[Meeting adjourned for five minutes. Off-the-Mike briefing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your patience. The break has served to clarify how we will proceed with the agenda of this meeting. The meeting was a success, so we have more clarity. So I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. I have so far noted that Minister Jourová is voting with card number 2 and Mr Tejc with card number 4. I am telling you that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mrs Adamová - health reasons, Mr Farský - foreign travel, Mr Gabal - health reasons, Mr Holeček - family reasons, Mr Kolovratník - family reasons, Mr Kostřica - health reasons, Mr Kott - personal reasons, Mrs Maxová from half-sixth - family reasons. Mr Hašek - card number 3. Mrs Nytrová - health reasons, Mr Okamura - health reasons, Mr Pleticha from two o'clock - personal reasons, Mr Ploc without giving any reason, Mr Pospíšil - working reasons, Mr - Health Procházka, Mrs Strnadlová - health reasons, Mr Volčík - health reasons and Mr Vyzula - family reasons. Minister Chládek apologizes from the members of the government for reasons of work, Minister Chovanec from 6 pm for reasons of work, Minister Jourová from 5 pm for reasons of work, Minister Němeček for reasons of work and Minister Zaorálek for reasons of foreign travel. As regards the further procedure for the discussion of the approved agenda of the 6th meeting, the Grémium of today proposes to continue as follows: One. We would place a new point, which is the proposal for rules on the management of Members' clubs for 2014, by the House of Document 296, for Tuesday, for today, as the first item. At the same time, we propose to comply with the Minister of the Interior's request and to include two new points: the Government's bill amending Act No. 62/2003 Coll., on elections to the European Parliament and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and some other laws, printing 13 at second reading, for today as a second point and third reading of this bill to include on Friday 14. 2. as the first point. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to exclude paragraph 33 from the approved agenda, which is press 82, and to include a new item - a government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Czech Republic's approach to the Agreement on the establishment of a European Molecular Biological Laboratory, which was negotiated on 10 May 1973, House Print 34 at second reading, on Thursday after the fixed points. Next, on Thursday, at 12 o'clock, to include the ballot points, i.e. paragraphs 55, 57 and 58, with candidates for the Ombudsman being given the opportunity to appear before the Chamber of Deputies. And after the agreement we made just during that break, also on Friday 14. 2. discuss all points from block third reading. This means third reading would not take place on Wednesday, but all third readings that have fulfilled legal deadlines would be discussed on Friday. That's all on my side. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] I'm registering applications now. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u2	Mr President, honourable governments, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to pay attention to the Chamber of Deputies -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u3	I ask for peace so that President Kováčik can tell us what he has to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u4	- turned to a very burning problem and tried, together with you, colleagues, to find a solution. We have all had the opportunity to hear, see, read a stunning number in recent days, record number of unemployed people in the Czech Republic. 630,000 unemployed have not yet been here, and this is in a situation, at a time when various analysts and economists convince us that the recession has passed, that the crisis is past, that the economy in Europe and, in turn, it is said that the Czech Republic is beginning to breathe promisingly, and that therefore the future, although not completely bright, should not get any worse. [[14.10 hours]] Maybe the only number is getting worse at this point, and that's the number of people who are out of a job. When I admit that in every society and every time there is a certain percentage of people that, as they say, you don't get to work, but the vast majority of these people are people who want to work, want to live honestly, they also want to receive an honest reward for their work. For a long time, a worker is worthy of his wages. I would ask you to support my motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, respectively. the inclusion of a new point, which is the Report of the Government of the Czech Republic on the possibilities and procedures for dealing with the critical unemployment situation in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u5	Mr. Chairman Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose one more change in the fixed classification, namely in paragraph 68, House Press 51, Annual Reports and Financial Statements of Health Insurance Companies for 2012, on Friday 14. 2. after the block of third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u7	Yes, thank you. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. I do not underestimate the priority that President Kováčik has here, and the TOP 09 MEP has no problem supporting this proposal so that the government can inform us about this situation. However, I would like to highlight, in addition to the objective fact of the record number of people without work in the Czech Republic, the investigation of the European Union, where we are surprisingly at the fourth lowest level in terms of unemployment within the European Union. This means that, although we are countries with record-highest unemployment, we are the best or least problematic in the European Union investigation. Here I would like to draw attention to the difference in the methodology that saves it. While the European Union is conducting a labour force survey, it is therefore identifying people who are unemployed and who are really looking for the job, so the Czech Republic is registering people who are unemployed. The difference is not negligible. When Chairman Kováčik said it was an overwhelming number of people, the difference is more than 200,000. This is why we look so good in the European Union's investigation, although we have record unemployment, because more than 200,000 people in the Czech Republic are reported at the employment office but are not actively looking for work. The scissors that began to close during the previous government due to compulsory public works, thanks to a number of other measures in the context of social reform, the scissors that began to close so that these two numbers had already started to approach each other again, please have a pretty dramatic opening, and today about a third of the people in the Czech Republic who are officially unemployed are not looking for the job. We would very much like to support President Kováčik's proposal to include this point at the House's meeting, but please also extend it to the search for instruments, which we cannot criticize after the Constitutional Court's finding, but we also cannot agree with him, and after the assertive socialist rhetoric of some forces in this House, they again produce people who do not work as an alternative, and this also contributes to a high number of our unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u9	Yes. Now with priority rights, the Prime Minister, then President Kováčik and then Minister Mládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u10	Thank you. honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr President, fellow Members of the Government, I do not want to delay at all right now. I may surprise you, but I would like to say for the government that we have no problem at all with this point being included. I think that, given the alarming number reached by the number of unemployed people in our country, it is quite appropriate that we will also address this issue here in the Chamber of Deputies. The new government has only been here a few days. It could be said - it's not our business, we can fully blame it on the governments that were here before us. But there is no way I want to see it that way, and there is no way that the new government will approach this problem alibistically. We have spent three hours today at the tripartite meeting, at the meeting of the Economic and Social Agreement Council, and there we discussed a government programme which, among other things, is intended to promote economic growth, raise new investments and create new jobs. It is one of the priorities that we have undoubtedly agreed with both employers' representatives and employees' representatives. So I'm sure it is. And I think that such a discussion can also be an opportunity for the government to present in more detail its plans and intentions, which are, after all, part of the coalition treaty and which are, after all, part of the government's programming statement. Unemployment is the greatest social evil. I dare not agree with what has been said here that we should be comforted about how well we are in European statistics. European statistics won't pay the rent bill, European statistics won't pay the food bill, European statistics won't help a whole range of families who, at the moment the breadwinner finds himself in a situation where he is out of work, are completely existentially threatened. And the bailiff doesn't ask. The bailiff just doesn't ask why the guy lost his job and why he can't find her again. So no downsides, no downsides. It needs to be realized that we really have a problem and we have a large number of people here who are long-term unemployed. And we have a large number of vulnerable groups that are difficult to apply in today's labour market. I want to mention people older than 50 years of age, I want to mention women who return after parental leave, I want to remind young graduates under 30 who have no practice and who no one wants to employ. And I also want to mention people who have a health disability, they don't have a full disability pension, they only have a partial disability pension, and they have a huge problem making a living. These are handicapped groups that, in the long run, have no chance in our labour market and make up a significant proportion of people who are critically at risk of poverty in our country. [[14.20 hours]] So the government is ready to realise this problem and is ready to formulate specific instruments, especially in the field of active employment policy, to help address it. And a final comment on what Mr Kalousek indicated here in his speech. He was trying to create an impression here, as if the previous government were launching projects, launching reforms that should have already culminated in an increase in employment, but the evil opposition came and began to complicate its role and complicated the government's path. I don't know if that's what happened. I don't think it was like that. I remember the story with Karta, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs dealt with, introduced and then had to cancel. I remember the problem of information systems that completely paralyzed the functioning of the employment office. I remember Mr. Drábek releasing hundreds of people at the employment offices so that the next government would have to accept them so that the labour authorities could manage their basic agenda at all. That doesn't sound like a reform thing to me. That doesn't seem like a thoughtful plan to create new jobs. It wasn't like that. And I also want to ask you one thing. I think it's important that we answer it. I ask, since when does the economic recession create new jobs? What Nečasův' government was doing here was a policy that led us to an economic recession within a year and a half, and jobs are dying in the recession. The fact that we had this problem and we had it the biggest in Central Europe, because while all the surrounding countries were growing, the Czech Republic was staggering in economic stagnation or recession, so it also contributed to the terrible unemployment figures that the new government inherited. But I want to make it clear that we are not going to accept this, and we are prepared to present concrete proposals to the coalition here at the House of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u11	Thank you. Since factual remarks cannot be applied, I must give room only to priority rights, in the order that individual speakers have made themselves known. That means, now President Kováčik, then Minister Mládek and then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, I think that it is not contrary to what I have proposed here, and what my colleague, President Kalousek, demands, because the proposal was also out of the question about the procedures for dealing with the situation, where it was also about the procedures for dealing with the unemployment situation and then in the debate. I wouldn't like to open this discussion as a matter of fact right now, let's just say what's in that number. And those other hundreds of thousands of people who are long gone off the books and are in the problems of life and they would also like to work and another million and something if we make it very simple, people who are, and their families, really threatened by falling into poverty and poverty. These are the things that hang over us like the sword of Damoklův, and I think we're here, among other things, from trying to find a solution together. I welcome the willingness of the Prime Minister, I welcome the helpfulness of colleagues on the right, at least colleagues from the TOP 09, that they want to address the issue. The unemployment situation is so serious that I would like to offer one more option here. The Chamber of Deputies should deal with the current state of affairs of these issues of increasing numbers, or, on the contrary, with a drop in numbers at each of its meetings, and because there is no such thing as a permanent "Information on..." point, I am just saying that at each meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the KSČM MEP will propose to include a new point if it is no longer there from the scope of the preparation of the Organising Committee, which will be named similarly, that is to say, "The Government report on the process of dealing with unemployment issues." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u13	Thank you. Minister Mládek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on the subject of unemployment. Unemployment is one of the greatest social evils that exist because it degrades, depresses people, and especially if unemployment is long-term. The demand to discuss unemployment is completely legitimate, and the government will deal with this not only at this meeting, but as an important part of its programme, because it is one of the main objectives - to increase employment, to reduce unemployment. I would like to call on Mr President-in-Office of the TOP 09 MEP, Mr Kalousek, not to apologise for the failure of his and Nečasův' economic policies by adjusting the figures. That if things don't work out, we'll sort of apologize. I would like to say that this country originally used its own methodology to measure unemployment. If it still works, we've got about 100,000 more unemployed. We have switched to the ILO methodology, the International Labour Organisation, so what falls out of the statistical office is fully comparable to the countries of the European Union. I would like to say that there is something to say that in this issue there are 200,000 other people who do not want to work, it is almost an insult to those people, because on the contrary there are about 370,000 people, that is a million who have already resigned and who are not listed and are not listed as unemployed, and we should not let these people out of our sight, and not just to say that there are about 370,000, but another 200 thousand more. It's not true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u15	President Kalousek, following him, President Mihala and I also register President Stanjura's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Yes, the surrounding countries were growing, and all those that were set as examples to us were also having significantly higher unemployment. I understand that we may disagree in this House whether we can or cannot buy jobs and grow healthy on debt. I don't think we agree. I just repeat once again that those countries that you called on for their GDP exiled on public debt had and also have significantly higher unemployment than the Czech Republic and that they did not buy one extra job for their deficits, they only increased their debt. That's just not how the world works. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I was just reacting to the Prime Minister's emotional performance. This is a misunderstanding. I didn't want to hide behind European statistics. I didn't even want to appeal to her, I didn't want to cheer us up. I consider the data very serious. I am simply saying that by comparing the European statistics and our current days and the days around a year, it is quite obvious and indisputable that scissors are expanding, that is, there is an increase in the number among those who would actually want to work, those who are unemployed and have as their regular alternative, which they have chosen, given the system, to be unemployed, to go to the brigade, or to work black, or to do anything other than to be employed than to do business, to simply choose it as an alternative. And that the system you're promoting, which, among other things, you pushed through the Constitutional Court by abolishing public works and taking a whole series of other steps that you're doing to raise this number, that's impossible to discuss. I think we all see unemployment as a serious problem, and we all wish that everyone really unemployed is looking for the job, too. But your policy, colleagues, is offering that army of unemployed people - with whom we feel we would like to find a solution - but you are offering an army of unemployed people an alternative other than finding a job. The number's increasing. That number is higher than 200,000, and you're not gonna say anything. That's right!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u17	Thank you. Before I give the floor to President Mihol, I would just ask, however much I do not want to restrict anyone in his right to speak, so since the Prime Minister has announced that the government coalition is likely to agree to include this point, it is possible to hide the debate on the issue of unemployment on that point, which will undoubtedly be included, and not to hold the debate twice. I do not want to restrict you, but it might help to speed up the House of Deputies' negotiations. Please, Mr. Chairman Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u18	Mr President, the government, ladies and gentlemen, record unemployment is so alarming and it is such a burning problem that perhaps all the electoral programmes have been dealing with the effort to solve it. Therefore, it will also certainly belong to the priority efforts of this newly formed coalition, and therefore KDU-ČSL will also encourage us to address this issue at a newly ranked point, whoever proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u19	Yes. Mr Stanjura, Chairman of the ODS Club, please. He was earlier, definitely. [[to the chairman of the club Kováčik, prepared by the pitch]] I'm watching it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u20	I think, Mr President, that even the opposition holders of the priority right can comment on this, aside from how long the Prime Minister has spoken, but I will not speak for long. I mean, why isn't it a good idea for a regular point to deal with unemployment? I think that the government and Parliament can contribute to improving the situation of competitiveness, the conditions for business by taking either executive or parliamentary action. And a change or adoption of new laws for good or for worse. I think they're both at risk. For the good, we can look forward to that, for the bad it threatens. And if we've seen both the draft coalition treaty and the preliminary draft coalition programming statement, I think we'll find proposals from both possible means. Both those that might help and those that will certainly not help and that will harm. I mean, let's not give the impression that if the House discusses this every month, we'll create one single job. Well, we won't. We can contribute to this, we can contribute to this - I would ask the Prime Minister not to speak to me from behind. It's really hard to talk into a microphone. I'm sure he has the opportunity to join the debate as I do. I also didn't comment on it from near one meter, his performance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope it lasts like this, because it's a favorite tactic to throw the speaker off some kind of wannabe humorous remark, which the Prime Minister has really succeeded this time. [[Resurrection and laughter in the hall, applause.]] If it's fair to you, clap it, it doesn't seem fair to me, but we can try each other out, who's more distracted and who's more upset. Let's see. I think we can contribute to improving the conditions for someone else to create jobs. And if the government comes up quickly with legislative proposals that could contribute to this, we will certainly be doing so, and we will be able to give priority to this at individual meetings. If we have a general debate that we are going to overtake, which statistics we believe or do not believe - and notice that those who most claim to be Euro-optimistic are not part of the mainstream, then Eurostat is probably not part of the mainstream. I understand from the speech of the Minister of Industry that it is some strange institution that probably counts on the order of the Czech right in a different way than they do. Well, it's possible, I haven't thought this far. We'll see. I don't think we want to downplay the number. But come up with specific recipes, with concrete proposals to change legislation, which will include, for example, support for the creation of short-time jobs, tax advantages for those who employ long-term unemployed. Reduction of social contributions for those who create a post, for mothers or fathers returning from parental leave, or for those of our fellow citizens who care for their relatives with a third or fourth degree of disability. I think that there are concrete steps that can contribute to making entrepreneurs, businessmen, employers create more jobs. Let us come up with a proposal that will make the labour market more flexible, which will reduce the cost of work. This, too, is a chance to create new jobs. In such a case, we will be in favour of doing this urgently, to have a rapid debate in the various committees and to argue about which concepts are better or worse. If we're going to have a debate about whether or not the statistics are right, if the number that-- every methodology has some minuses. If we say that Eurostat has a bad methodology, but we have to have a methodology to compare ourselves with others, especially our neighbours. And according to Eurostat, even if he's a suspect, as the Minister of Industry says, two of our neighbors are better off, and that's Germany and Austria - so that should be our goal to get to them. And the other neighbors are far worse off than we are. We probably wouldn't have to inspire ourselves there. I remind you that the other two, the last two states in Europe's 28, which are better off, are only Malta and Luxembourg. So let's look where unemployment is lower, though perhaps by bad methodology, and look for recipes to help our entrepreneurs create jobs for our employees. This makes sense, and we will be actively involved in such discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u21	Chairman Kováčik has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, Mr Stanjur: Let us tell this about Malta and Luxembourg to those who are increasingly up to the trough and not by their own guilt. But, Mr President, I have yet to apologize to you through the President: I have not applauded the fact that the Prime Minister has managed to upset you. But I applauded the elegance you handled. Now, get to the point. All that was to be said here, and richly above all, has already been said here. If we admit that we're talking about putting a point here, let's say the technological side of the thing, and we're not taking the subject in depth and in substance, then all we have to do is suggest that the point be placed on this Thursday as the first point in front of the other fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u23	Thursday. In that case, it would very likely be the second point, because the first point, if the proposal goes through, would be the Agreement establishing a European Molecular Biological Laboratory. So after that, we would place this point. But I'm just pointing out that there's a debate on Ukraine at 11 o'clock on Thursday. That means there's this time limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u24	Definitely before Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u25	Okay. Okay, we'll vote on it. Mr Šincl is now duly registered, followed by Mr Böhnisch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to place a point number 35 on the approved agenda for the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on Tuesday, 11 February 2014 for fixed items. Or Wednesday morning, February 12, 2014 for a fixed point. This is a government bill amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business, so called. Trade law, as amended, House press 85. At the same time, I would like to ask you for a firm inclusion of point 66 - Report on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their support in 2012, House press number 36, on Thursday 13 February 2014 as the second point of the morning negotiations after a fixed point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u27	Mr President, the second point cannot be, probably, because I assume that both the proposal from the Gremium and the proposal from Mr Kováčik will pass, so that would be the third point on Thursday. But even for this point, the time limit applies to the 11th hour and the debate on Ukraine. So if you insist on it, I will, of course, let it vote. [[Ambassador Shincl agrees.]] Yes, thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u28	I'm sorry, it seems weird that I am coming before you so many times, but unfortunately - I have learned, which I cannot know in advance as an NGO MEP that the Prime Minister will not be here on Thursday, and we would like unemployment to be discussed in the present, in the active presence of the Prime Minister. Therefore, I propose an alternative point, which I have proposed, to address unemployment, to be placed tomorrow, that is Wednesday, as the first point after lunch break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u29	Yes, thank you, I do. Mr Böhnisch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the honourable House to include two new points on the agenda for this meeting. This would be a second and third reading of the House press 53, which is an amendment to the Act on Packaging. As you know, last week we discussed this press in the first reading and reduced the deadline to five days, the Committee on the Environment has already discussed this material, and given the urgency of this press, I would like the entire legislative process in the House to take place at this meeting. If we vote on the inclusion of these two points, then I would like to place the second reading firmly on today after the already fixed points and the third reading at the end of the third reading block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u31	Thank you. I also had Mr Komárek's application here. Mr Komárek withdraws. Okay. In that case, if there are no more applications for the agenda, then we will gradually take the vote to deal with the proposals that have fallen. Will there be an objection to one vote on the proposal from the Gremium, or can we vote on the proposal from the Gremium with one vote? We can take one vote, okay. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the proposal from the Gremium, as I read it, to press the button and raise your hand. Of course, in the modification after a meeting of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, i.e. about Friday - third reading. Who's against it? The vote is 78. The registration is 181, for 169, there was no one against it. This proposal was adopted. We would now vote on Mr Kováčik's proposal. He proposes to include a new point which would be the Report of the Government of the Czech Republic on the possibilities and procedures to address the critical state of unemployment. He's suggesting we put him on Wednesday. But we need to place a new point first. I'm going to put a new point to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of putting this point in place? Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 79. It's logged in 181, for 159, against 11. This proposal was adopted. There is a proposal to place this point firmly on the center as the first point of the afternoon. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 80. It's logged in 182, for 161, versus 7. This proposal was adopted. Mr Sklenák proposes paragraph 68, which is the annual health insurance reports, to include third reading on Friday after block. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 81. It's logged in 182, for 172, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. Mr Šincl, paragraph 35, which is a trade law, if I am not mistaken, wants to place firmly on today's agenda. Then there was another alternative. Am I to understand that if this proposal does not pass, we would vote on the second proposal? Yeah, okay. Whoever agrees that this point, paragraph 35, should be placed on today's list for fixed points - I am opening the vote - to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 82. It's logged in 182, for 142, against 29. This proposal was adopted. Then there was a proposal to include point 66, the report on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their support, on Thursday after the fixed points, i.e. at this stage as point 2 of the morning meeting on Thursday with the fact that there is a time limit within 11 hours. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 83. Registered is 18, for 142, against 26. This proposal has also been adopted. The last proposal is the proposal by Mr Böhnisch, who proposes a new point, twice, two and three readings by the House of Press 53, the amendment to the Act on Packaging, and at the same time proposes that we place the second reading of this point at today's fixed points and third reading at the end of the third reading block. In theory, we should probably take four votes. I'm going to ask if there's an objection to all of this being handled by one vote. Is there an objection to the joint vote? It's not like that. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with Mr Böhnisch's proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 84. It's logged in 182, for 162, against 7. This proposal has also been adopted. In my opinion, we have dealt with all the comments on the agenda. Isn't that right? I still have the application from the President of the ČSSD Membership Club, President of the Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After last week's experience, I will not hesitate, and at this time on behalf of ČSSD, KDU-ČSL and YES 2011 Members' clubs, I propose that we take today's negotiations and take a procedural vote on all proposals after 19th and after 21st hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u33	Yes, that is a procedural proposal that I will leave to vote on without debate. It's a procedural proposal. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with President Sklenák's proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 85. Registered 182, for 149, versus 5. This proposal was adopted. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club now has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u34	Please forgive me. I would be sorry if it was kept a secret to tell you that Mr. Sklenák beat me to it a moment ago. I was going to suggest the same thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-000-999.u35	Yes. I see it as signing up for President Kalousek's proposal to Mr Sklenák. We have dealt with this procedure and there is nothing stopping us from focusing on individual points. Opening point number
