ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-013-065.u1	65. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes signed in Pristina on 26 November 2013 (the first reading) We discussed this proposal on 15 May at the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where we interrupted this item in the general debate. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur for the first reading of Jaroslav Foldyna take their seats at the rapporteur's table. We will continue the adjourned debate. Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna has applied for the floor. Mr. Ambassador, I may have my colleague's application Konečná, but she's absent, so her application is forfeit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-013-065.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I think that since some time has passed since the last negotiations, I have followed the decision of our government and have followed developments in international relations, nothing new has happened. As I have already stated here, a resolution by the Czech Parliament was adopted in 2008, which said that there was no State of Kosovo. I am glad that colleagues in the previous discussion referred to the resolution of the Czech Parliament in relation to Crimea. We could discuss the Luhan Republic and the other Republic here tomorrow. So, so that we don't get our hands dirty, I suggest we stop and postpone. Nothing's changed. Kosovo does not exist. Resolution 1244 applies and Kosovo is Serbia, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-013-065.u3	So, this is a procedural motion to interrupt this point. I should put it to a vote without debate. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to sign you all out and ask you to sign in. Please log in with your identification cards, and as soon as the number of people is settled, I will vote on the procedural proposal. I've begun to ensure that the presence here is sufficient. Okay. We will decide to interrupt this point by voting order number 67, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 67, of the 103 Members present for 27, against 54, has not been accepted. We will therefore continue the debate. This is the rapporteur? He's not checking in. Who's reporting for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate, I'm asking for final words. Minister, if he wants the final word on it. He's not interested. The rapporteur - he is not interested. In that case, we will consider the proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So we will deal with the commandments of the foreign committee. I have begun the vote on order number 68, and I ask who is for the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 68, from 107 in favour of 95, against 6. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That concludes point 65. We will continue with the first readings of international treaties. We will continue with the point
