ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u1	6. The draft law amending Act No. 87/1995 Coll., on savings banks and credit cooperatives and certain measures related to this and supplementing the Czech National Council Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, as amended /German press 253/3/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as press 253/4. The senator, as I said, stays. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate's return to the Government's bill amending the Act on Savings and Credit Cooperatives and certain related measures contains several essential measures that respond to the current situation in the cooperative base sector, in particular the increase in risks in the sector itself and consequently the risks to the deposit guarantee fund. [[18.10 hours]] Individual measures were prepared by the Ministry of Finance in close cooperation with the Czech National Bank and some of them are based on recommendations of an in-depth assessment of the Czech financial sector by the International Monetary Fund. During the discussion both here in the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently in the Senate, an identical amendment was voted in substance. This proposal, which consists of a stricter limit on the balance sheet total, based on CZK 4 billion combined with efficiency for smaller and medium-sized entities as of 1 January 2015 and also in the mitigation of the so-called "smaller and medium-sized entities." Rule 1:10 was adopted by the Senate on 23 October. It is in substance the same wording of the amendment tabled by Mr Adolf Beznoska at second reading here in the Chamber of Deputies, and which the Chamber of Deputies rejected at third reading. Although I explained the dissenting position of the Ministry of Finance on the proposed amendment here during the third reading of the bill, I will repeat the basic arguments. The tightening of the limit for the balance sheet total of cooperative credit facilities lacks economic justification. The original government proposal for a limit of CZK 5 billion was based on international recommendations for campels to hold capital at 10 percent of the balance sheet total. If, in excess of a certain amount of the balance sheet total, a transformation into a bank is required, and thus an increase in the share capital to CZK 500 million, that step should correspond to the size of the entity's balance sheet at the level of CZK 5 billion. At the same time, the amendment prohibits small and medium-sized credit institutions with a balance sheet total below CZK 4 billion from 1 January 2015 to 1 January 2018 to increase to this level of the balance sheet total. The Senate's proposed reduction of the limit to CZK 4 billion could thus lead to major problems of medium-sized cooperative bases through a possible transformation process to the bank, which is contrary to the intention of the draft law. In addition, the proposal to achieve a different effectiveness by introducing a ceiling for smaller and medium-sized campers, already on 1 January 2015, would lead to the introduction of unwanted discrimination against subjects by size. This measure would not give medium-sized cooperatives any time to adapt their plans for further development and, last but not least, undermine the legitimate expectations of regulated entities. The second part of the Senate amendment, i.e. the so-called mitigation. Regulation 1:10, substantially postpones the moment when the objective of the measure in question is met, namely the strengthening of the involvement of all members of the cooperative in the activities of the campelička, virtually up to 2020. Nor can I agree with this point for the Ministry of Finance. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that following my arguments, you will reject the amendment adopted by the Senate and approve the bill as proposed by the Government and subsequently approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u3	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Dolejš, if he wishes to speak. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u4	I do not like to delay, but nevertheless, given that there has been quite an intensive discussion around this bill, not only on the board of the budget committee, so let me make a few comments, although I am announcing that my final resumé, both in the role of the committee rapporteur and in some way the recommendations on our own political faction, will be neutral. I mean, when it comes to the choice between the MP and the Senate option. The problem is concentrated, it is concentrated mainly until that grace period for rule 1:10 until 2018. The very problem of the balance sheet sum of 4 or 5 billion is not so decisive, and let's say that it is not even a matter of whether or not the relevant entities decide to transform into a bank, but whether or not we are really fighting for the survival of the campel sector here, first of all. And secondly, to what extent is the legitimate argument of intercessors of some campels that this rule called them. link liquidity to the future period. Of course, there were intercessors on the side of the campels. I have to say part of the sector, because, in the meantime, the representation of this segment has sort of fallen apart and new associations have been formed that represent only part of that segment. But we did, maybe you noticed it in the mail, who read and watched the mail carefully, even the intercession, an open letter against the disposal of the campels, which sounds dramatic. Our former colleague Táňa Fischerová and from the academic environment, for example, are signed below. Professor Švihlíková or Dr. Naďa Johanisová. These ladies describe quite dramatically how the promising and prospective segment of collective cooperative financing will be strangled by the adoption of the parliamentary version. I don't quite share the dramatic tone because I think the scope for real self-help collective financing will be preserved, but it will be something other than what we've known so far. In short, the reality is that we have chosen a weird hybrid form in the recovery of campels, where the liability of cooperative workers has not been brought to an end, which poor organizers, of course, are not to blame for, but we have created room for somewhat different types of financial transactions and they need to be put to an end. And now it's about how decisive and whether our measures are counterproductive, that is, whether we help good things or complicate everything. Here I come to the problem of the liquidity drain if rule 1:10 is applied before 2018. We continued to discuss this subject even after we voted in favour of the House version. We were even at the joint meeting of the Budget Committee and the Bank Board sometime in mid-November, where we received operational information - colleagues from the Budget Committee can confirm this to me - where we discussed not only the current situation in this segment, how many toxic assets are there, what is the possibility of financing and refinancing etc., but even since there was a Senate version at the time, I believe that the amendment was made to Senator Wagnerová, so we discussed to what extent the relevant arguments were raised in this amendment. I am thinking, above all, of the argument that if we make this decision, we're going to cause a wave of disputes, and that it's good to create a time space for us to make sure that litigation doesn't actually complicate more things on its own. There we made it more or less clear, I am not an expert on constitutional law, but there we made it clear that, first, a possible dispute does not have a suspensive effect on the standard. And secondly, it does not actually apply to those entities that have a certain, let's say, credit and that are not subject to suspicion of a high degree of toxic assets and some kind of fraternized funding in the level of top management. So the fact is, whether we choose the House or the Senate version, where it is wrong, there will undoubtedly be banking supervision there anyway and they will have big problems regardless of whether we extend the deadline or not. So it's just to explain that we've really been dealing with this. And from my point of view, it is rather neutral to vote in favour of the House or the Senate version, with the fact that I consider the Senate to be a kind of helpful gesture and political character, because unfortunately, those interlocutors have worked a little bit to disturb their own savers and depositors, who could, of course, behave somewhat irrationally despite the fact that existing deposits are 100% guaranteed, because the Kampeličky sector was covered by 100% liability as for the rest of the banking sector. This actually created the problem of endangering the Deposit Insurance Fund. So much to explain and, of course, the result will appear on the basis of the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. I'll ask the senator if she wishes to speak. Yes. Senator Vrecionová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u6	Good afternoon again, and thank you for the floor. [[They're trying to fix the microphones.]] That's awfully tall for me. I have listened carefully to your discussion here, and I assume that the vast majority of the arguments that I wanted to mention in support of the Senate proposal have already fallen, but I will try to do at least two things here that have not fallen. We were very impressed by the Senate Economic Committee, where the representative of the Czech National Bank was and, in my question, whether it had calculated what financial impact the potential collapse of the deposit guarantee fund would have on the deposit fund, he said that they did not calculate it, however, against the statement by the Vice-Governor, who says that it should definitely not be liquidated for the campels, so he directly confirmed that the CNB is counting on the liquidation of the sector when he said that the financial impact on the Deposit Guarantee Fund would be offset by the subsequent acquisition of funds that it would pay the savers, in the assets for liquidation, which we considered to be clear evidence that this sector should be liquidated. Again, I would like to point out that we are not actually changing anything else, that we would just like to give our clients a little more time to deal with this thing, because it is quite clear that at the moment that the depositor has to freeze 10 percent and can't deal with it, so that, of course, the depositors will leave. One further argument about the anti-constitution, or an explanation of the possible unconstitutional nature, which my colleague sees in the fact that, in the initial proposed effectiveness, this law will enter into valid contractual relationships, such as five-year term deposits, with members and the law will force the bookmarks not to enter into such deposits in spite of the contract in force, i.e. it will be called. Retroactive impacts of the law on already concluded contractual relationships. The proposed text without a Senate amendment thus clearly denies the Constitution's guaranteed certainty of legal relations between ordinary citizens of the Czech Republic. I would very much like to ask you to consider your support and support this Senate amendment, which does not interfere in any way with the fundamental provisions of this law, we fully agree with all these measures, and only pushes the effectiveness of one point and tightens one condition. This shift in efficiency cannot bother anyone, including the regulator, which is the CNB, if this follows the declared interest of stabilization of this sector. Finally, I would like to say that the discussions in both committees and plenary have not been politicised and the views have been similar from all colleagues across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u7	Thank you. I'll ask who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u8	Hello. Colleagues, co-workers, I may have married a technical one, but I will also use the debates. It won't be long. I just want to say one thing. I haven't dealt with any other novels like this novel. I really feel that what has passed through Parliament has a head and a heel. I want to pause for 10 percent of the freezing. I don't share the view that, due to the freezing of 10 percent, clients should be leaving these campels. And I don't think that if campers are strong, capable and honest, neither their clients nor their campers need to worry about clients or the resources. I think there's some liability for loans and the entire bookmarking is on the line and it's on the line. You know that campers as such - I wouldn't want to throw them in the same bag - is a ticking bomb, and we can count on examples from the past how much money the state has put into it, how many campers have failed, and how many campers may already be going bankrupt. Everything will be paid by the state, virtually. from the insurance fund. I think 10 percent is not much and as a guarantee for business and quality business it is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-009-006.u9	Yes. There is no one else in the debate, so I am ending the debate, and before we proceed to the vote - Minister Jurečka apologizes for today's meeting from 18.20 for work Válková, and also for today's meeting from 18.45 also for work reasons. So many apologies. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 87/1995 Coll., on savings banks and credit cooperatives and certain measures related to this and supplementing the Czech National Council Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, as amended, pursuant to House Press 253/3, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 253/4.' [[The vote is in session.]] I'm sorry, this was a mistrial vote because there was an application for a check-out. I'm erasing all factual remarks, I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking for a new registration. And we can vote. We therefore vote for the Senate version. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 90, registered is 160, for 46, versus 75. This proposal has not been adopted. We shall vote once more, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 101 Members are needed to adopt this resolution. Kvorum is set. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 87/1995 Coll., on savings banks and credit cooperatives and certain measures related to this and supplementing the Czech National Council Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to press 253/3.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 91, registered is 163, for 145, against 13. This proposal has been adopted and I note that we have adopted the bill in the original version, as passed to the Senate according to the press 253/3. I'm gonna end point 6 and we're gonna continue point number
