ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u1	58. Oral inhalation Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is absent. Therefore, those who request the Prime Minister's interpelling will give their question and will be answered in writing. Mrs Jitka Chalánková is the first person to be interviewed. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u2	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to draw your full attention to a very specific case of serious human rights violations. Human rights of young children, eight-year-old Denis and six-year-old David, citizens of the Czech Republic, and their parents in Norway. Based on the initiative, according to all resentments of Czech parents motivated by the giving of a kindergarten teacher, the father of children and subsequently the mother were charged with sexual abuse. David and Denis were immediately taken away from their parents...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u3	Yes, thank you, gentlemen, for interrupting the debate. Please, madam, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u4	David and Denis were immediately taken away from their parents, separated from each other and placed in a different foster family, allegedly due to the lack of foster families willing to raise two children. Although the mother and the father of the children divorced Barnevernet to pressure Norwegian special services, the following investigation of the charges was very soon refuted. Both boys have remained in spare families for two years, the courts finally granted their mother the right to contact them only twice a year after two hours. These meetings take place under supervision, mother has strictly prohibited to speak with children Czech, Czech children do not learn and their native language gradually forget, although both they and their parents are exclusive citizens of the Czech Republic. The mother is even under pressure to issue her own passports to the Czech authorities and, contrary to Czech law, to hand them over to the Norwegian authorities. In the meantime, the mother resists this, even though she is threatened that if she does not do so, she will be deprived of any possibility of associating with her children. The children are being manipulated so much that they keep repeating at meetings that they want a passport as a gift from their mother. [[Attention on time.]] I'll speed it up. I'm sure you'll admit, Prime Minister, that something like this isn't from an eight-year-old boy's own head. Everything's documented. Prime Minister, the Czech authorities have done nothing for the mother of children who seek their return. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you whether you are willing to take over from me the text of the complaint lodged by the Czech mother and both children in the Strasbourg court and to get to know the whole case in more detail. Please note that these are sensitive data. Whether you are willing to make a personal effort to correct this obvious misconception of the Norwegian state, our ally, whose victims are Czech citizens, to make sure that children can grow up together, ideally with their mother or at least with their Czech grandfather. I ask whether you are willing to decide by diplomatic means that Czech children are not violently and against the will of their Czech parents assimilate Norway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u5	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. It will be answered in writing. However, she has applied to this particular matter, unless there is an objection to this procedure, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who wants to say a few words on the matter. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u6	Mr President, Members, I am sorry that I did not know ahead of time because, in a way, it is an intervention on me. I know that this case and several similar cases concerning Great Britain are being dealt with by the Office for International Children's Protection. I know the director told me he had information about it. Because he told me about a month ago, at this point, unfortunately, I don't have any detailed information, but I promise I will probably give it to you through the Prime Minister's interpellation, because that will be the basis for my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u7	I thank the Minister for a clear and effective answer. We'll proceed to the second interpellation. Mrs Marta Semelová has a question for the absent Prime Minister. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u8	Dear absent Prime Minister, I was surprised to read a report in the press a few days ago on the meeting of two members of your government, namely Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek and Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, with German Christian Democrat Members, accompanied by Peter Barton, the head of the Prague office of the Sudeten German Landsmansaft. I note that this meeting took place even at the premises of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I do not question the right of discussion of KDU members with the members of their nearby parties, however, the fact that they act as representatives of the Czech Government, in addition, in secret from the media, which did not learn this information until 14 days later, with the representative of the Sudeten German Landsmansaft, I consider it to be a warning. It is no wonder that this raises the legitimate concerns of the citizens who have turned to me in this context. There are few who have been in memory throughout their lives of having to leave their homes in the borderlands and what the Sudeten Němec have been doing to the Czech population. It is also necessary to mention the efforts of some circles to abolish Benešův' decrees or the fact that the office of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft operates in the capital. I therefore want to ask you as Prime Minister whether, first, the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Culture acted under the authority of the Government. Secondly, if this is not the case, whether they informed you in advance of this meeting as Prime Minister or Foreign Minister. Thirdly, if the mentioned members of the Government representing the KDU-ČSL have informed you of what was involved in this hearing. Fourthly, do you agree that the top representatives of the Czech Government should meet and deal with the Sudeten German Landsmanšaft, in addition to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u9	Thank you. The answer will be sent to you in writing, exactly. Next in line is Petr Gazdík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow Members, Mr absent Prime Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the responsibility of police officers and prosecutors for my actions, and I would like to recall the example of this issue for several years with the Vidnava case. Luděk Kula, the director of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic, and Deputy Minister of Justice Radek Steiner, were accused in the case. Their alleged infringement should have been a disadvantage for the State to purchase and prosecute the building in the village of Vidnava and the charges were abolished by the court in full. However, how much time has passed between the beginning of the procedure and this decision? These people were very seriously damaged personally, careerally, financially and without a doubt seriously suffered their good reputation as well. And there have been a number of such examples in particular recently. [[14.40 hours]] Mr Kula and Steiner, as well as others unjustly prosecuting the state, can and will certainly seek compensation, and it will cost taxpayers a considerable amount of money. However, there is no such compensation as to return the lost years of life, professional recognition and compensation of mental health and well-being to the persons concerned and their families in this and other similar cases. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, what particular responsibility will be drawn from those who have investigated the case and have seen what measures your government is going to take to avoid similar cases in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line with the interview is Mrs Věra Kovářová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u12	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the media was informed about the current unemployment rate a few weeks ago. Without my ambition to analyse this statistics, I would like to draw attention in this context to the long-term problem of women's high unemployment. It's very passionate about me. those returning to the labour market after maternity leave. According to last year's data, the employment of women with children under the age of six in the Czech Republic is only 35,8%, which is the second lowest in the European Union. The average of the EU countries is almost 60 percent. Clearly, this is a problem that needs to be done without undue delay. One way to enable moms' employment, and thus their successful return to the labour market and their potential, is to facilitate part-time work. This can be achieved, for example. by reducing health insurance contributions. I firmly believe that such a measure would help both their personal, working and family satisfaction and could be very beneficial for the Czech Republic as a whole, not only economically. Dear Prime Minister, what action is your government planning to take in this area? What measures will motivate employers to take on short-time jobs are they going to implement? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u13	Thank you, ma'am. That was the last interview for the absent Prime Minister. Before we move on to oral interviews with individual members of the government, let me apologize to the ones I have here. Today, from 14.30 to 16 o'clock, Minister Marcel Chládek apologizes from today's interviews, Minister of Health, Mr Svatopluk Němeček, Mr Stanislav Pfléger apologizes today from 14.30 pm, Mr Herbert Pavera apologizes from this afternoon's meeting, Mr Petera apologizes from today's meeting, Mr Karel Fiedler apologises from this afternoon's meeting, and then Mr Pavel Šrámek apologises from this afternoon's meeting. We will now proceed to the first oral questioning on the members of the government. Mr. Josef Zahradníček will interpel Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš on the flow of money to municipalities. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u14	Thank you. Good afternoon, Minister, dear government, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I very much appreciate anyone who plunges into municipal politics and performs something extra not only for their community, but also for the surrounding municipalities, e.g. in various associations, associations or microregions. You, Minister, as far as I know, have never worked in communal politics, and you immediately plunged into top politics. You still have less than four years to look at your new position as the supreme treasurer of our entire beautiful homeland and respond together with your new collaborators on a very important matter for municipalities, municipal councils and citizens, and that there are various types of money flow to municipal cash registers and, as you probably also suspect and know, there are other problems. Nevertheless, this problem needs to be dealt with quickly so that newly elected members of municipal councils in the autumn municipal elections and mayors feel that they live in a legal state. There are certain rules in our homeland, e.g. for the payment of taxes to the Treasury, but there are no rules for all citizens of our country in individual municipalities to benefit equally from their revenues, even if they are entitled to a certain standard standard of living according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. My question is: Did you have time or will you be interested and tasted, by what date you will be able to deal with this problem so called. the money flows into municipal cash registers were transparent and that there were more entitlement items to municipal budgets and not non-claim items. I mean, for example. various grant titles, various listed grants, which are meaninglessly and purposefully written, as well as money flows from funds from local action groups, microregions, etc. etc. I believe that the state budget is also partially drained in a senseless way by various subsidy and control bodies, and that makes the specific projects in the municipalities less and less money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u15	I ask the Minister of Finance for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. It's true that I didn't work in municipal politics, I got into top politics by mistake, but my system of work is that I'm always trying to find people who are smarter than me and get information. So about the flow of money from the Ministry of Finance to the regions and municipalities, of course there are a lot of things that are not settled, it has a link to the Treasury. We were arguing about where the money was, because the state is actually losing track after it allocates money across the regions and communities. Today, even all municipalities do not have accounts with the CNB, nor do they have an obligation to send these numbers. However, the main problem is that the system of financing the budgetary determination of taxes has made some changes and it is certainly not entirely ideal. I have spoken to Mr Gazdík about this with other county officials, and we have actually agreed to deal with this. Mr Gazdík has come up with a proposal to take account of the number of people employed in the community, so we are certainly open to debate. I don't have a problem with anyone having a debate about it and, of course, transparency. About the controls. Of course, today we discussed them with our colleague Berdychová, who is the mayor of the village, how there was control and how she was fined CZK 300,000 for some formal problem. So unfortunately, our representatives of the state, now I am talking about the Structural Funds and the subsidies from Brussels, instead of encouraging state institutions or private institutions and actually calling them "here are the options for drawing" so often they are more negative about it. I'm sure we'd like to change that too. There has now been a change in the fact that the operational programmes for the new period will be more centralized, as there are fewer, and there is currently a debate on how to identify and allocate them. So these are definitely things that we would also like to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u17	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking the mayor if he has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u18	Thank you, Minister. I wouldn't have a question, but it's more of a statement. I believe that there are enough able workers at individual ministries and regional offices who could process and make money flows more transparent for municipalities, so that they are as low as possible, and if they are to be spent purposefully and in kind and systemically. [[14.50 hours]] I did not want to talk about European money on purpose, too, because this is a chapter for myself, but I only wanted to talk about national finances. I didn't even want to talk about the budgetary determination of taxes, because I know that it didn't say anything to the Minister a year ago. Therefore, if he is interested, I can participate in his information because I believe that my remit in municipal policy has been more than 30 years, so I know something about it and we can then agree on how to deal with it further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u19	Thank you, colleague. I'll ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u20	I'm sure I'd like to learn a lesson. All I can say is that I live in Průhonice, that I repaired a falcon, bought a retirement home, and made it an Alzheimer's center, bought a factory, and a 35-mile community gets a change in the zoning plan. Crowns. So where I live, I'm trying, and I know a little bit about these communities, too, what problems they have, but I'm happy to learn from another case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u21	I thank the Minister for his answer and for his desire to learn. Before we go to another interview with Mr Michal Kučera, I would like to point out to my colleagues that the ministers apologized from today's meeting: Minister Němeček, Minister Jurečka, Prime Minister Sobotka, Minister Chovanec, Minister Jourová, within 16 hours Minister Chládek apologized and within 15 hours Minister Zaorálek apologized to you to count on whether or not your intervention will be answered. I will now ask Mr Michal Kučera, who will intersect the absent Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u22	Hello, dear absent minister, I would like to make a fundamental comment on the determination of the flood territory and its active zone of the significant watercourse Ohře-Louny-Stekník, km 51 to 80. The update of the active zone was carried out by you led by the Ohře basin, despite the significant opposition of the affected towns of Louna and Postoloprta and other villages on the river Ohře. The expansion of the active zone has a fundamental and negative impact on the legal rights of property owners in the territory concerned, the protection of ownership and the depreciation of the property of citizens and municipalities. The expansion of the active zone of the Ohře river does not take into account that there are other legal options for the implementation of flood control measures. We, as Loun representatives last year, invited the town council of Louny the director of Povodí Ohře, where we wanted to explain the role of the waterworks Nechranice and its handling order in the floods that regularly affect the villages of the lower river Ohře. The director of the Ohře basin and his colleagues at the council have told us that everything is perfectly okay, that the Ohře basin is proceeding on the waterworks Nechranice exactly according to regulations and rules of handling. So what's the problem? The problem is in setting priorities according to which the forgiveness of waterworks Nechranice is realized and according to which regulations and handling orders are created. For example, the supply of industrial enterprises with water takes precedence over the protection of municipalities and flood property. Therefore, municipalities on the lower stream Ohře are also flooded. Minister, I would like to ask you to rethink the priorities of the waterworks Nechranice, the change in the handling order of the waterworks Nechranice and also, in particular, to re-evaluate the expansion of the active zones of the flood area of the significant watercourse Ohře on a kilometer of 51.5 to 80 Louny-Stekník, making life easier for citizens and municipalities on the lower river Ohře. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u23	I thank Mr Kučer. He will be answered in writing by the Minister of Agriculture. With another interview by Mrs Fischerová to the Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u24	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will use the time to interpel the Minister of Chovanec. I'd be happy to settle for a written answer. So I now speak to Minister Chovanc and greet him with this. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in the matter of public administration reform, which is planned by the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic. My former colleagues and colleagues from the mayors and mayors often address me, including the question of how and whether the third phase of public administration reform is being prepared. I mean, when I look at those half-empty benches, there are still many of us who have experience in self-government. And I am glad that the Minister, too, has actually come from the Pilsen Region as a captain, so he has a positive relationship and it is a good thing that he can help all of us in this, especially the citizens affected by the reform of the public administration. I was informed by the mayors that they received a letter from the Ministry of the Interior last month and that was the material under the name Strategic Framework for the Development of the Public Administration of the Czech Republic, so-called 2014 plus. Now I come to my question. This is what the vision of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's government is about the third stage of public administration reform. Thank you so much for your answer and wish you a quick recovery and return to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u25	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. Another interviewer is Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel Mr Andrej Babiš in the case of ČEB. And I and many others will finally learn what a CHEB is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You should know that this is the Czech Export Bank. Okay, for those who don't know. Thank you for the opportunity to ask, Mr Vice-President of the Government. I'm glad you're here, unlike a number of your colleagues, who don't like the work here in parliament to stay here and wait for the interpelation. I wanted to ask because, of course, we are reading a lot of information about the Czech Export Bank, which the Czech Republic has established as saying perhaps a non-standard or standard instrument of the state, a country that is significantly exportable, to help entrepreneurs to get into risky areas, to areas where it is risky to do business, and, of course, I read in the newspapers that the Police of the Czech Republic saves a lot of things. I think, and we don't have to make sure of that here, that they're paying for the fall, if they come up with anything, let the one who's been held responsible for something and misplaced pay for it. However, Mr Vice-President of the Government, here I heard you say on the microphone that the Czech Export Bank is a hyperprosecution, you said everything there is for problems and so on, and yet you also said that you wanted to act as if the Czech Republic were your own company in Czech politics. In corporate culture, it is customary that when someone corrupts something - and I think that you are dealing with a number of major problems in your companies - then you marry the person, punish him as much as possible, the state has a number of tools to punish its officials, but you certainly don't go anywhere in the newspapers to tell everyone what's wrong with your companies. You punish these people, and then, eventually, you make it public that something like this has happened. [[Time warning]] I think that the Czech Export Bank is an important institution on the outside, it is being watched abroad that it is worth helping law enforcement authorities to deal with these things, but I will say first to act, then to speak and preserve corporate culture in this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u27	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask the Minister of Finance for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u28	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't know what the culture is. The trouble at the Czech Export Bank is actually the result of the management that Mr Topolánek put there. That's common knowledge. The names of management, which is being investigated and which is probably enriched there, are also widely known. And of course, the Czech Export Bank doesn't really belong to anyone, because the Ministry of Finance has a piece there, the industry has a piece there, and actually, as it has become a custom in our state, no one here has any idea what the exercise of shareholder rights is. Here we're used to the fact that most of these state firms are actually running our policies, or they're gonna pass something to them. [[15.00 hours]] So I don't know what I did wrong. I have no idea how the Czech Export Bank could approve cases such as the construction of apartments in Tunis, where there is neither Czech brick, nor mortar, nor cement, nor a worker. The whole system - I understand the export because I know what export is, but the system that the exporter actually chooses the client, the Czech exporter, and only guarantees that it's 2.5 percent, which I consider absurd. And I think that everyone could probably export like that so that the problem would essentially fall to the state. So, in my opinion, the Czech Export Bank needs to change substantially. The current director is the nominee, where Mr Nečas recommended him. Of course, it's probably not his fault, but the bank has no strategy. No one checks exporters for how many Czech raw materials they actually bought and why we built a minihut in Slovakia for 5 billion and why we did not want any major guarantees from those exporters. So if someone wants to export, they should probably vouch for more than 2.5 percent. Maybe he should vouch for a lot more. And yet he should be the recipient of the money, not some foreign entity, where the Czech Export Bank is actually analyzing on the basis of some paper, because the Czech Export Bank does not have a network of representatives. And of course there's a problem with the glassworks where there was some stupid idea to sell claims, and the offer was completely ridiculous. Luckily, it's canceled. Instead of being treated by the Export Bank so that, for example, we can access those assets because one of them makes the glassworks. So I don't know why we didn't take it and why we don't run it, for example. There's a lot of problems, and I think I quite understand what exports are and what loans are, and this is one of the examples of how badly the state cares about its capital participation. That's why there are 16 billion impregnable loans today. It is, of course, guaranteed by EGAP, but I think that the export bank must fundamentally change its strategy and must clearly define who it will give the money to. And when I first asked the director to give me some background, he gave me those foreign recipients who don't tell me anything. But then, when I asked for the exporters, wonder about the world, there are so few of them, the main ones. They're still the same company. So I think it's a big issue, and unfortunately, sometimes when we have a state bank, we remember ÈKA, when quasi-deputies run it, who may not have the competence to do it, or politicians intervene in it, that's what happens. So that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u29	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bendl with an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u30	Thank you. I very much agree with you on this, Prime Minister. Let's discuss changing parameters. You have a number of competencies and so on. We will open the debate on how to help Czech exporters. But this is what it looks like so far, the order is that the Czech Export Bank has never supported much of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. With an additional reply, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u32	I really didn't understand what this has to do with the agricultural sector. By the way, Agrofert is the fourth largest exporter, even though I thought I wouldn't talk about it. And he never had a loan at the Czech Export Bank. And I also invested a billion of my own in China. They tricked me, robbed me, but it was my money, not the state. So I don't know what you're getting into here, Mr. Bendle, agriculture. On Tuesday at 17.30 we sit here Minister Mládek, I, Mr Klumpar and other representatives of the Czech Export Bank, so you are cordially invited to this debate on a new concept.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u33	Thank you, Minister. With further interpellation to Minister Helena Válková, Josef Šenfeld, on public procurement, passed through detector. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply to my written interview of 5 February this year to a small-scale public contract called through metal detector and luggage X-ray, contracting authority Czech Republic, District Court in Rychnov nad Kněžnou, hereinafter referred to as contracting entity. From your communication of 6 p.m. 3. this year it follows that the contracting authority cannot terminate the contract in breach of the law anymore and therefore cannot implement a new tender procedure. However, the published documents, taken at the e-market on 26 February of this year, the District Court in Rychnov nad Kněžnou, namely the notice of cancellation of the abovementioned procurement procedure of 21 February of this year, show that the number of the proceedings OSPR 1652014 shows that the contracting authority has cancelled the selection procedure 14 days before your reply to my intervention, or the contract has not concluded, due to reasons worthy of special consideration for which it cannot be continued in the procurement procedure. Madam Secretary, was the contract concluded or not? And will the tender or will it not be repeated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u35	I thank the Member and the Minister of Justice for her reply. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u36	Thank you, and especially thank you for interpelling this kind of thing, because I am so forced to become familiar with the situation when it comes to the governance of those areas that I have in my jurisdiction, competence, including the courts. And I will answer your question very simply, Mr. Ambassador. Since the procurement procedure was already concluded at the time of the finding of the errors and it was concluded by signing the contract on 10 February 2014, the District Court in Rychnov nad Kněžnou was advised to terminate the contract and to issue a new contract properly. But the District Court of Rychnov nad Kněžnou, instead of ending the contract, quite incorrectly and invalidally canceled the procurement procedure, which he could not do at all. The act is invalid, the procurement procedure concluded cannot be cancelled. And he ended it by signing the contract on February 10, 2014. The e-market system did not allow the contracting authority to cancel the contract. On the contrary, it is clear from this system that the contract has already been awarded to the tenderer. The contract is also available in the e-market. This means that it is not possible to implement a new procurement procedure at the moment, as it is already implemented under the contract. The Ministry of Justice, as a result of the serious misconduct of the contracting authority, specifically the District Court in Rychnov nad Kněžnou, has taken such a measure that it will carry out exceptional financial control, which will be focused on public procurement. And of course we will inform the superior court, the Regional Court in Hradec Králové. At the same time, I also ordered an audit at the relevant department of the Ministry of Justice, which includes a public contract. [[15.10 hours]] If I had to summarize the whole case: the District Court in Rychnov nad Kněžnou instead of following the instructions which it had received and which clearly said that one of those complainants was right and his objections were justified without going into detail to terminate the contract immediately at the time when it was still possible, so he let the contract run and instead of the termination of the contract canceled something that he could no longer cancel at that time, the tender procedure. So everything was wrong. Specific responsibility will also be drawn against specific persons. Thank you for the warning and once again it is clear to me that it is necessary to focus attention not only on the prison service, the prosecutor's office, but also on the courts themselves, which is all the sadder to find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u37	Thank you, Minister. Does Mr Šenfeld have an additional question? He doesn't. I thank the Minister and the honourable Member. With another sixth interview, Mrs Nina Nováková applied to the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the Libushín chalet. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, of course, honourable Members of the Government, it might seem that such a matter as the possible demise of one national cultural monument is not an event that should move too much of our lives. However, I believe that Minister Daniel Herman has the opportunity to show his position in restoring this national cultural monument on this very occasion. For those of you who may not have registered it too much, or it's only three Sundays, the Libushín cabin burned down in Pustevny on the night of March 2nd to 3rd. The architecture and decoration of the cottage was very valuable because there were even frescoes of Mikoláš Alš and the architect is Mr. Dušan Jurkovič, a truly excellent architect. This is a very sensitive matter for the Wallachian region. We know that Rožnov declared a collection under Radhoštěm, and the Valašské Museum and the village of Rožnov pod Radhoštěm immediately stood up. And although the situation, the event is not pleasant, it is sad, one monument has been lost, which we cannot actually save, we can only really restore it, I would like to invite the Minister to tell us, given the very place where the monument was destroyed, what action will he do to support not only the Ministry of his resort for the restoration of this cottage, but also for some support of the community and some identification of people with our monuments. I believe that national cultural monuments should be considered as part of our environment. At the same time, I found that there are already some CZK 1,300,000 in the collection, but the renewal will cost tens of millions. Somewhere, I found an estimate of $80 million. [[Time limit alert.]] Perhaps one of our colleagues is close, that he will come with the treasury and we will be able to choose to prove our belonging to this national cultural monument as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u39	Thank you, ma'am. I ask the Minister for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u40	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Member for this question, because Libušín Chalet is a national cultural monument, it is in the administration of the Wallachian Museum in the countryside in Rožnov pod Radhoštěm and the monument was even fully renovated in the 1990s, so it is a very important object. It is one of Beskydy's wooden buildings, which even became the symbol of Puteven. As has already been said here, it is a building from the late 19th century in the style of such a popular Art Nouveau. As the honourable Member said, in the early hours of March 3rd, Libušín caught fire, namely the dining room, which was the most valuable part of this construction, completely devastated and destroyed the old Hermitage. For your information, I can state that 12 firefighters from the Zlín Region and Moravian-Silesian Region were involved in the fire in the total number of 70 persons. From that moment on, of course, I closely monitor the situation, and I also want to thank all those who participated in the rescue of the Pusteven complex and those who contributed to the collection for the restoration of Libušín. In fact, it was basically minutes away from being captured by the next building of Mama, which is - I don't know - five meters from this burnt-out construction Libušín. So, if this had not been the case and even if there had not been a very active service for citizens, the second construction was probably in jeopardy. I want to recapitulate the current situation because last Sunday, on 16 March, I visited the place and got to know the situation in detail. The damage is really large. It even exceeds that amount and ranges in the framework around CZK 100 million. The cause of the fire is still being investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic. The director of the Wallachian Museum communicates with the insurance company and the police. The object or, respectively, the remains of the object are cleared and temporarily reserved and statically secured. The director of the Wallachian Museum discusses with the Department of Culture and Monument Care of the Zlín Region proposals for possible procedures for temporary provision of the current state and subsequent renewal. Before my visit, the Ministry of Culture carried out a meeting on the site of the situation and at the Ministry there was also a meeting on the financial impact of the fire on the budget of the Wallachian Museum. This year's costs of securing the object against weather effects and further decay will reach around CZK 10 million. To give you an idea, you just need the remains of the building, about 20 percent of the building is left, covered, and prevented any more devastating weather effects. As has also been said here, the Wallachian Museum has organized a public fundraiser and the amount has almost touched two million crowns. And now the schedule for the next period. By the end of May of this year, our ministry requested from the Wallachian Museum to submit a detailed report proposing a procedure for the remediation of damage, subsequent restoration of the cottage, financial costs, in the period until 26 March, this one point. The representatives of the Wallachian Museum and the Ministry of Culture will, of course, act hand in hand with the insurance company. There will be expert analyses and surveys on the site of the fireplace, as such things as that some of the beams from which the building was built, which dates back to the 19th century, have reacted to the fire differently from the beams that originated in the 40s of the 20th century, and can then lead to improved fire protection for other objects. So it's actually going to be used for scientific purposes of this type. The security will be resolved, and as I said, the temporary roofing of the building and the overall project documentation will be prepared for the reconstruction of the building. It is therefore very fortunate that the documentation really exists very detailed, so it will be possible to carry out so-called scientific reconstruction, it will be possible to rebuild the object. By the 2017 tourist season, we would like the restoration of the national cultural monument Libušín to be completely finished. And the most important thing I want to say in the end. I immediately dealt with Minister Jourová after my visit, and there is a high likelihood that we will reach the full amount of European funds from which this national cultural monument, its renewal, could be financed. [[Attention on time.]] That's good news eventually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u41	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u42	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to be uncomfortable at all, but after all. Recently, we were talking here about our young people having a very young acquaintance about our history, etc. After all, I would intercede with the Minister to use this as a kind of educational event, especially because architect Jurkovič was a typical person who respected the ties between Czechs and Slovák. We can strengthen the links between Bohemia and Moravia, and especially in the younger generation, it would be good for them to learn not only who Dušan Jurkovič is, but perhaps to learn what the cabin looked like, and the work of author Mikolas Alš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Minister for Supplementary Response. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u44	Thank you, Madame, for this remark. I'm sure it's very important. And as I said in relation to fire protection, I think that even in connection with education, repairs of this object can be used. Thank you again for this impulse. I'm sure I'll take him into consideration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u45	I thank the Minister for his positive news. Mr. Lukáš Pleticha, Mr. Daniel Herman, Minister of Culture, spoke again about the borrowing order of the NTM and cooperation in the care of the collection. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you to the meeting of the National Technical Museum represented by its CEO Bc Karel Ksandr on loans and leases of historical rolling stock from the collections of this institution to voluntary associations, private companies and organisations that also deal with railway nostalgia. Entities interested in working with the National Technical Museum for Repairs, Maintenance and Presentation of the Railway Collection today have little chance of meeting the conditions newly set in the National Technical Museum's borrowing order. The contribution organization of the Ministry of Culture - I don't know if intentionally, rather I think unfortunately - on the pretext of maximum protection of collection vehicles prevents their evaluation from private means. I think it's a procedure that doesn't have a lot of parallels in similar institutions in the world as I know them. She cares for historical railway vehicles is extremely demanding financially and also staffingly. Anyone can't do it. Only one who has quite a high level of expertise in both rail and other crafts, such as metal processing, restoration, etc. Now, why am I talking about this? A specific example - but it does not only concern our electoral region, it also applies to several other entities across the Republic. In my constituency there is a significant technical monument, it is also a cultural monument, namely the toothbrush line between Tanvald and Kořenov. Since 1988, there have been organized volunteers who have already repaired it - saving several more modern vehicles from scrapping, which are now also declared cultural monuments, and caring for other older and historical vehicles. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes. This is the case that the state of the borrowing order today allows these vehicles to be lent only if they are insured at the target value, in the case where, according to the methodology, the historic steam locomotive is valued at 65 miles. and with a 10-mile repair. gets to the sum of 95 million, so even before it starts, the entity that gets the loan has to either insure the item at 95 million, or guarantee its own property at twice the value. And these are, please nicely, conditions that are completely beyond any possibility for the vast majority of these subjects. I therefore ask, Minister, if you consider it right for the National Technical Museum to set up almost impossible conditions for cooperation with organisations that want their own forces and their own funds to help care for the demanding collection fund of the railway museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u47	I thank the Member and ask the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman for his reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u48	Mr President, colleagues, Member, allow me to thank you for your interpellation with regard to the borrowing order of the National Technical Museum and the possible lending of the steam gear locomotive from the Tanvald National Technical Museum collections. I am fully aware of the efforts of various railway associations and their members to help save railway technical monuments throughout the Republic. Of course, I deeply appreciate these initiatives. On the other hand, however, these voluntary activities must also have clear and firm rules, since the property of the Czech Republic, which is also the railway vehicles of the National Technical Museum, must be sufficiently protected. Based on the experience of the museum from the 1990s, however, I can say that from various associations or institutions, the rented locomotives that left the museum in a whole, broken down and incomplete state returned. These are a total of four machines, from which I will mention at least locomotive 534.027, called. Kremák, which was returned to the museum in a disassembled and incomplete state, on three wagons. Between 2005 and 2007, the museum reconstructed this locomotive to the original non-operating exhibitable state for 4 347 thousand. Crowns. It is also necessary to consider that there may be a serious accident in the operation of historical rolling stock, such as: shows the accident of the historic train near Jihlava of 29 July 2011, in which the exhibit of the passenger car CI 40595 was seriously damaged, on which the damage occurred 1,600 thousand. Crowns. To this day, the borrower, even after 2.5 years, still hasn't finished repairing this exhibit after the accident. Last but not least, I would also like to say that I do not consider it right for the exhibits of our museums to be reconstructed disproportionately for a long time, as for example. can be noted for locomotive 411.019 Conrad Vorlauf. This locomotive was loaned 21 years ago to a civil association that began to dismantle it in January 1993 and to this day still unfinished in its unfinished state. I believe that it is now clear to you as well why the current leadership of the National Technical Museum does not intend to repeat the mistakes of the former management. It is also clear from these examples that the requirements of the National Technical Museum for Insurance or other property guarantees are completely justified and the museum cannot proceed any other way, as it would be contrary to the law. I therefore consider the museum's procedure to be legal, even in the case of the rental of a steam gear locomotive, which you mentioned, to be of a total value of 66 miles. Crowns. However, I'm not answering your question. If you agree with me that the borrowing rules of the National Technical Museum comply with the applicable regulations, the path to change is precisely in these regulations by which the museum is bound. This year I will submit to the Government for approval a draft concept of more effective care for movable cultural heritage for the years 2015 to 2020. There is room to find a solution to ensure that citizens' enthusiasts are not depressed by the attitude of state institutions and representatives of state institutions are not punished for violations. Dear Member, I will certainly welcome your cooperation in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u49	Thank you, Minister. I ask a supplementary question from Mr Pleticha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I know these four unlucky cases you've named, I know about them. In addition, there are a number of other cases where this was done without any problems, when tens of millions of crowns have flowed from the private sphere into exhibition items and everything has gone as it should. I understand, of course, that there must be a certain certainty in the operation. But this is about getting it ready at all. Of course, the easiest thing to never unravel is to start repairing until the whole thing is financially secured. However, this is always preceded by a relatively long time when it is necessary to prepare the correction, and this cannot be done in accordance with the current borrowing order. And of course, there are other risks at a time when the locomotive is standing at the national museum's depository, which is practically safe, but it is necessary to have contracts prepared, to prepare documentation for the award of various partial repair orders. There are other risks when the repair is carried out. There are other types of insurance for that. And again, quite different risks come on that object the moment it should be driven along the track. At present, it is all dealt with at a flat rate by one insurance to the target value, which will arise when everything takes place. But according to this, the insurance would have to be paid today, when there are no risks. [[Time warning]] So that's my point. I would like something to change in this regard. And then I think this problem will be solved and it won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister with his follow-up response. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u52	Thank you, and it is certainly an important remark and clarification, which the colleague said. I will reiterate that the concept of more effective care for movable cultural heritage for the next period, i.e. the years 2015 to 2020, is being prepared and there is certainly the space to clearly define the needs that are, and the way to cooperation is open. So thank you for your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u53	I thank the Minister for his follow-up response and now I ask Mr Jan zahradník, who will interpel the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec in the matter of the Šumava National Park Act. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u54	Mr President, I would like to address the Minister of the Environment with my intervention. Dear Minister, the Šumava National Park has always been the case, and I fear that this is still a major conflict of two approaches to the world around us. Ecological activists are irrefutablely convinced that they have a human right to the unlimited enforcement of their ideas that nature is best left to its spontaneous development. If not everywhere, at least in state-protected territories. In Sumava, this ideology was materialized in the concept of wilderness, which describes the condition that nature is supposedly left to occur by spontaneous development. Against this fundamentalist concept of coexistence of nature and human society, the vast majority of people who think that man has a natural responsibility for nature in the territory that human society has lived in for centuries and is to take care of it according to its best knowledge and conscience. With the arrival of a new government, there are changes in the management of the resort, and I would therefore like to ask you the following three questions, Minister. First: In what state is the preparation of the Šumava National Park Act at the Ministry of the Environment? Whether the Ministry intends to draw up such a law and, if so, whether it will be part of the zoning of the national park. Second: How does the Ministry of the Environment discuss the management plan for the National Park of Šumava? Who are his opponents, what will be the role of the Council of the National Park of Šumava, the Association of the Municipalities of the National Park of Šumava and the Plzeň Region and the South Bohemia Region play in its discussion? And third: How will the design of the Šumava National Park be dealt with, which was prepared in broad agreement with the management of the park, Ministry, municipalities and Council of the Šumava National Park?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u55	I thank the honourable Member for his questions. I'll ask the Minister of the Environment for his answers. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u56	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Zahradník for his question. It is not a cliché, because I know that he has long been interested in this matter, he has been an expert in it for many years, and, after all, my formal and informal discussions with my colleague have been a correlation for me, and they will certainly be a correlation of some steps. I would like to assure you, my colleague, that even for me, a person within the Šumava National Park and in the first zone is a creature who has its place there. And when I say the term "intelligent tourism," it's not a phrase. I have used it several times now, perhaps even to dislike some NGOs, but I would like to assure you that this principle will definitely be enshrined in the steps we are preparing at the moment. To your questions. I will begin with permission perhaps a little bit from the end or middle, i.e. on the care plan, when the proposal of the care plan of the Šumava National Park agreed by the administration of the national park with the representatives of the municipalities was approved by the Council of the National Park on 20 June last year. Then the resulting contradictions with the municipalities of Prášila, Modrava and the town of Kašperské Hory were discussed and these contradictions were decided. Subsequently, on 20 December the draft care plan was sent to the relevant municipalities and regions and the deadline for submitting comments was set by 28 February. The Ministry received a total of 26 comments on the care plan, seven came from municipalities, two comments from the regions, the Bavarian Forest National Park administration, property owners, NGOs and representatives of the scientific community. At the moment, the Ministry of the Environment is discussing the comments. Some meetings have taken place. Coincidentally next week, 25 March on Tuesday, there will be a meeting with representatives of the municipality. There will be seven municipalities in total. And then I think on Thursday or Friday there will be negotiations with the Pilsen and South Bohemia Region's captains, so that we can talk about their comments. The first week in April will then be prepared a draft protocol whereby the Ministry of Environment will approve the care plan and settle the objections of municipalities, regions and property owners in accordance with the law. This care plan, if issued, is approved, so since the new zoning or national park law has not yet been approved, so this care plan, I say again, if it is issued and approved, will be approved for a period of less than three years. Another care plan will be in accordance with the new zoning or the National Park Act of Šumava. Now allow me a short comment on the bill proposal, respectively. to legislation, I would like to emphasise this, because the Ministry of the Environment is currently considering several options on how to anchor the zoning in the form of legislation so that methods and methods of protecting the national park are set up in the long term. According to the current wording of Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, the nature protection zones are to be defined by the decree of the Ministry of Environment issued after consultation with municipalities. You know that. At the same time, the Ministry is considering amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., where the basic rules of zoning would be newly enshrined for all national parks. There is also a variant of the new Act on the National Park Šumava and a variant of the new Act on National Parks. There are really more options at the moment, and I would like to estimate that the definitive decision which legislative path we will take, because all the routes have their pros and cons, and obviously not all the steps have been considered in the past, we would like to make by the end of April of this year and I will certainly inform all the parties concerned about them. And just a brief piece of information for the resonation. The draft zoning of the national park came from 2012 and was then submitted, it was discussed in committees and essentially subsequently, it was to be discussed in the committees on 5 September last year, but as a result of the dissolution of the House, this was no longer the case. In view of the situation in which the legislative process of the law was ended by the dissolution of the House, the Ministry continued to discuss contradictions about the proposal of the zoning with the municipalities concerned and the currently modified complete proposal of the court of the court of the court of the Czech Republic received on 31 January 2014. The management of the national park has been invited to bring the proposal into line with the legislation in force and the decision to resolve contradictions for several reasons. [[Attention on time.]] I'm gonna be very short. And after the Ministry receives a modified proposal, which is the end of April 2014, the process of discussing the proposals for the national park zoning in accordance with the relevant section will begin. The expected date then is that during May we will introduce all the parties concerned to this proposal and continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u57	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zahradník with an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the Minister for his approach, for always a clear willingness to act. I would also like to offer him the cooperation of the forces he thinks of in Sumava, let's say and hopefully in a similar way to him. Thus the municipalities, the National Park councils and all of us, to whom the heart of Šumava lies significantly. To the logical connection of the three documents that we have discussed here, of course, the most logical is the process, the National Park Act, as part of the zoning defining the first non-impact zone. And the logical consequence of that is a care plan, how to take care of this territory. On this procedure is the strong consent of all Šumavák. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u59	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister does not have an additional answer. I thank both the gentlemen, the Member and the Minister. Mr. Jiří Petrů is now coming with the ninth interview and will interpel the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař in the matter of the Břeclav bypass. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u60	Thank you. Dear Minister, the interview is intended to draw attention to the long-term unbearable transport situation in the city of Břeclav. Břeclav is an important road junction, the skeleton of which consists of highway D2 Brno-Bratislava, road I/55 Břeclav-Olomouc state border with Austria, road I/40 Břeclav-Mikulov and II/425 Rajhrad-Lanžhot. The center of Břeclav passes thousands of trucks from the direction Olomouc - Uherské Hradiště - Hodonín towards Valtice and Mikulov to the state border to avoid toll gates on the D1 motorway and the R52 expressway, i.e. the Olomouc-Brno-Pohořelice-Mikulov route. However, the traffic in the centre of Břeclav is only possible through a single bridge across the river Dyji. This causes traffic jams, accidents and dozens of injured cyclists and pedestrians at crossings. The solution to this situation is to build a bypass that has been prepared by the investor of the Road and Motorway Directorate since 2001. The result of almost 13 years of work is a territorial decision which expires in 2016. The land is not redeemed and the route through Natura is settled. By the way, this was announced without discussion with the municipalities and the entities concerned, not until after the zoning decision was issued for the construction of the Břeclav bypass. Dear Minister, the citizens of Břeclav, after years of stagnation in work on the city bypass, put relatively high hopes into the new government as well as in the Minister of Transport and expect an increase in intensity in the preparation and implementation of this action. Can you please confirm that the Břeclavi bypass is also your priority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u61	Thank you, honourable Member. I will ask Mr. Transport Minister Antonín Prachař to tell us whether the bypass of Břeclav is also his priority. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u62	I thank Mr Petrů for this question. I would like to outline the timeline as we want to move forward with this matter. It is true that a territorial decision has been issued for this construction in legal power and its validity expires in April 2016, so from this point of view, when we have a valid territorial decision that is in line with the zoning plan, so if we look at today's situation as we have other routes, for example R52, we consider it a victory, even if it took us 12 years. The price of the construction is processed according to the update in the project and totals 1.26 billion. and the length of the construction is 11.3 km, of which 800 meters only on bridge buildings. The construction is formally divided into three stages, but it is assumed that the implementation of all stages must go at the same time because the part stages cannot be realized separately. The road wouldn't follow anything, it would be free from nowhere in space. At present it is necessary to complete a public contract from the level of ŘSD to ensure property law preparation and then insert geometrical plans into the real estate register and start negotiations on purchases. In case of disapproval of owners of expropriation, we cannot specify this period. I must say that we are very much considering the draft technical amendment to Act No. 416 on land purchase so that we can create such an environment and speed up this process. The construction was evaluated as a priority within transport sector strategies and we expect the construction to start in 2017-2018. Funding from national sources is more appropriate for the inclusion of this area in Natura 2000 and the approval of the project at the level of the European Commission for the OPD II could be problematic here. The question of securing funds for implementation is currently premature due to 2017-2018 and funding from national sources, i.e. from the state budget or from the sources of ŘSD. Preparation for this year is allocated from SFDI and there is an amount of 16 million, so the preparation process will continue. As regards the inclusion in the Natura 2000 territorial system, this, of course, implies the need to implement compensatory measures beyond the territory concerned by the construction. It follows from the provisions of Law 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape that compensatory measures can only be implemented after their establishment by a decision given by the nature protection authority on the basis of the request of the relevant construction office in the building procedure. The construction process isn't started because we don't have land, we can't ask for a building permit. It is assumed that the decision of the nature conservation authorities will lay down, inter alia, the time conditions for the start-up of the compensatory measures and, consequently, the possible start-up of the construction, which is the result of a consultation meeting at the Department of the Environment of 22. 11. 2013. At present, it makes absolutely no sense to seek the removal of the territory in question from Natura 2000 because this exclusion is de facto unnegotiable with the European Commission if the object of protection is still present in the territory. It would only prolong the process. At present, it is more appropriate to accept the implementation of compensatory measures. I must say that this construction is of course very important, we have a territorial decision, but we have to get through the whole machine I was trying to outline. We're ready to watch it, and the moment that any negative signals should be solved on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u63	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. Mrs. Květ Matušovská, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, a very popular one today, came forward with the tenth interview on the historic building of the railway station in Ústí nad Orlicí. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about the historic building of the train station in Ústí nad Orlicí, which has become a cultural monument and has been registered in the central list of cultural monuments of the Czech Republic. In 2011, a joint visit to the representatives of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Transport in Ústí nad Orlicí took place and an agreement was made that both resorts, as far as possible, would contribute to the rescue and restoration of the cultural monument and solve its future use. At present, this cruise building ceases to serve its purpose and no one knows what will happen to it. That is why I ask, Minister, how you will address this situation, together with the Ministry of Transport, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u65	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask for a reply from Minister Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u66	Mr President, colleagues, Madame Members, the Ministry of Culture, on the basis of its legal mandate, led the administrative procedure for declaring the historic building of the railway station Ústí nad Orlicí as a cultural monument and, following complex proceedings, in 2010 this historic railway building really became a cultural monument and was registered in the central list of cultural monuments of the Czech Republic under No. 104023. Thanks to the complexity of the issue, where, on the one hand, the building's poor technical state and the need to implement the railway corridor and, on the other hand, the historical and architectural value of the matter, the interest in the future fate of this cultural monument has also been passed on to the general public. On the fourth of March 2011, a joint visit to the railway station took place by representatives of the Ministers of Culture and Transport and a promise was made that both departments will contribute to the rescue and restoration of the cultural monument and will examine the possibilities of its future use. In order to ensure the restoration of this cultural monument, an informal inter-ministerial working group consisting of representatives of the Chamber of Deputies, the Ministries of Transport, for local development and culture, the Czech Railways, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, the National Monument Institute, the Pardubice Region and the city of Ústí nad Orlicí was established. The Ministry of Culture can compensate the owner of cultural monuments according to its possibilities, which results from restrictions on property rights arising from conservation. The Ministry offered the owner the opportunity to assist in the restoration of the monument through the National Monument Institute and the possibility of drawing funds from the monument programs of the Ministry of Culture. [[15.50 hours]] Expert assistance was already implemented when the National Heritage Institute in 2011 prepared both a preliminary and detailed construction-historical survey of this railway station. The Czech Railways have not yet applied for support from the monument programs of the Ministry of Culture. The above-mentioned informal interministerial working group examined all possibilities of obtaining financial support from European funds and the question of the future use of the station building. The group has not reached a clear proposal for a solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u67	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member - there is no supplementary question. We'll proceed to the 11th interpellation. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček has a question about the absent Minister Milan Chovanec regarding the inaction or activity of police authorities. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u68	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues, members of the government. Question for the absent minister of the interior, respectively. a request. The municipality of Štěpánovice, České Budějovice district, filed a criminal complaint in February 2012 against its former mayor in connection with his actions in function and abuse of his position. The matter is still being investigated by the police department of the Department of Economic Crime by criminal police and investigations in České Budějovice. The quality of police investigation is indicated by the fact that, after 15 months, the matter was postponed, so that, on the basis of a complaint by the notifier and an examination of the author's own decision, the investigation would continue until further decision was taken with the same conclusion. However, both the procedures and the reasoning of the decision show that there may have been non-compliance with Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation. 4 and 5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to which the police authority is to discuss matters promptly, without undue delay, whether the circumstances testify in favour or in favour, but always in such a way that the facts of the matter necessary for its decision are duly established. One-sided evaluation of evidence raises doubts as to why the police authority does not act impartially and protects a suspected ex-mayor, who is among others, in quotation marks. active as a judicial expert in the valuation of companies before bankruptcy and liquidation, in particular he was the liquidation officer and bankruptcy administrator of dozens of companies in the region, even very important. Many people in the region who know and observe the case are already perceived as mob links between South Bohemian interest groups, which certainly undermines general confidence in police and justice in general. The representatives of the village of Štěpánovice no longer know who to turn to, and also tried the General Inspection of the Security Corps. I ask you, Minister absent - but the question could also be directed to the Minister of Justice: Will this government of yours fight against these interest groups? And if so, how do you imagine such a fight, and what do you recommend to the notifiers, how do you get justice? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u69	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, who will interpel the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, on the financing of health care, came forward with the twelfth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. Dear Minister, my question points to your comment in the press, for Czech journals, which I would like to quote exactly: "The problem is hospital fees, when we made a mistake in terms of residence. In retrospect, I think it's wrong. Now it's an argument to pour more money." Of course, I know that the abolition of charges was a mere populist gesture. I have repeatedly pointed out here that this matter will endanger especially small hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, long-term hospitals, hospices. No one responded. I am, speaking of populism, had to work my whole life as little anyone in this country could possibly imagine. And when you're working, Minister, you have to work well, too, because my surgical practice has taught me that some decisions, wrong decisions, have no corrective deadlines. That's why I dare ask you where the nearly 200 miles appear. crowns that are missing from hospitals every day. Where 2.2 billion will appear. All year round? What sources will it be covered from? But especially when? You're the treasury administrator, it's your responsibility, and I'm just pointing out that, as the old Latin proverb Mount Ruit says, time has progressed so much that small hospitals at this point have nothing left to cook from, and big hospitals are only starting to cook from the water. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u71	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister of Finance for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u72	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, if anything was populist, it was just Mr. Svoboda's performance. I'm always really into ODS. I suggest you buy today's law. [[He's showing the paper.]] It says here about Czech health care and about how we felt about Julínek and Šnajdr, who are referred to as Richelieo, and here it says how the Šnajdr still has a major influence on VZP today. Surely hospitals would have enough money if the R&D finally showed us all the contracts with healthcare providers, including additions and payment arrangements. It's enough transparency! And in terms of work, Mr. Colleague, I think you could come to my place for training as you work. I don't have a problem with that! [[Fun and applause in the ranks of members of the YES.]] Minister Němeček presented some program and says he wants 27 billion. for the years 2014-2017. And I'm like, "Yeah, I don't have a problem releasing 2.1 billion now." Yes, the charges were a mistake. It was a request from the CSSD, it was a deal breaker, so we agreed. And we're not all infallible. That's not the problem. I say to the Němeček, you have 3.5 billion. reserves and you've got a 2.1 billion in your SÚKL account, so take them! SÚKL, which in 2007 took Kalousek and Julínek and transferred it to the Ministry of Health. And wonder for the world, the Czech Republic managed to keep the price of drugs 40-60 percent cheaper than the whole of Europe. And then the first Deputy Šnajdr, your former long-term nominee, came to the SÚKL, the top employee of the multinational company Pfizer. And then all of a sudden, we didn't have the cheapest drugs anymore because we only reduced it to three countries of comparison. So all I'm saying is, yes, we're definitely gonna solve the hospitals, but finally, the citizens should know, and the insured people, where the 260 billion that flow from the health insurance company are going. That's all. I'm sure I won't stop it. On the other hand, I'm not willing to give a bianco check in advance. Why? We said we'd be transparent, we'd be saving. It's with claims anyway. Let somebody show me who those claims are. Why should we buy them now? Let it be enforced by the VZP insurance company! Now they're going again to buy a supposedly new portal. We've already forgotten the IZIP. There's going to be a new portal. Let them spread it! Let's finally know what's in there! And you, ODS, there's your kabátek, so tell him where the money is!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u73	I thank the Minister and ask for an additional question from Mr Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u74	I'm trying, I'm always clapping fair and square when I'm applauding what. I thank the Minister for first admitting some mistake and writing in the paper that it was a mistake. That's a thing worthy of praise. On the other hand, I would like him to write the articles he quotes, at least know what he's talking about. Because the information he gave us really sucks either because he didn't read it or he didn't get to know it well, or that the team of experts he's been chasing doesn't know what he's talking about. And I really don't care, I wasn't here in the previous period, I'm certainly not the one who spent or sewed up some money. I'm here for the same reason: I want the health service to work. But unlike you, Minister, I'm interested in patients. I can't imagine I'll answer them - you answer them. And I'm asking you to tell them you're not going to eat for six months, because in the meantime, somebody's going to be raising some money, because I canceled the opportunity for you to get the food. I'm asking if you're willing to tell those patients to wait for someone to figure it out!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u75	With an additional answer, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u76	I know I speak bad Czech, but I'll try to say it again. We will release the money for state insured people, immediately, at the rate of loss of fees, Mr. Svoboda. Let's loosen it up. So don't say here - you're making a popular reference to patients. Patients know how it works in Czech health care. So we're gonna release it for 2014! And for the next few years, we want to know clearly how the money is distributed to the health department. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u77	Thank you. Mr Karel Šidlo, Mr Karel Šidlo, was drawn in the order of the thirteenth. Interpels Minister Jan Mládek on price regulation of heat in the Czech Republic. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u78	Thank you for the floor. Minister, since 2012, more precise and stricter rules on public aid for services of general economic interest, including the interpretation of incompatible public aid, have been in force in the European Union. The basic criterion for compensation for services of general economic interest is the relation between the level of risk borne by the service provider and the level of reasonable profit. The current wording of the price decision in the price regulation of thermal energy in the Czech Republic does not include the level of risk as a criterion for determining the level of profit of regulated entities. Price regulation and control are only formal and do not ensure that costs that are unrelated to the service are excluded. Inefficient costs or profits, which are unacceptable according to European standards, affect the final price of these services provided often in the environment of the local natural monopoly. According to the current price regulation, monopolies justify any price increase. The scope of public services for each of us, not only in the energy sector, means paying hundreds to thousands of crowns a month extra just because their price regulation is not implemented according to standard European rules. This failure is also the cause of the gradual disintegration of the central heat source system. Public services are most dependent on socially weak population groups, which most affect higher prices for services. Large customers join other sources as a result of outrageous heat prices, and fixed costs remain only on small customers. Now, three questions. One: In what way will the Ministry of Industry and Trade ensure better competition in heating that does not work? Second: How will the Ministry improve transparency in heat pricing and ensure compliance with the European Union's binding methodology for services of general economic interest? And three: How will the Ministry prevent the disintegration of central heat sources as large systems? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Mládek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me answer three questions. First question: In what way will the MIT ensure an improvement in competition in heating that does not work? Heating is a rather specific business in terms of competition, since heat systems are only territorially relevant business entities which cannot compete directly with each other. Competition for heating is the use of alternative ways of ensuring heat energy in their geographically given territory. For example, this is the case. on the construction of boiler rooms for the use of conventional boilers for different fuels, or boiler rooms associated with the installation of small cogeneration or usable renewable energy sources or the provision of heat demands for the apartments themselves by installing individual heating systems. There are support schemes for the use of renewable sources for the supply of heat, and we are planning to simplify access to the network for microgenerations. Otherwise, effective regulation must play a major role in customer protection in this sector. Second question: How will the transparency of heat pricing improve and ensure compliance with the binding EC methodology for pricing for services of general economic interest? The price of heat in our country is one of the prices in accordance with the Price Act, which sets out the conditions for a binding pricing procedure or calculation of the price, including the inclusion of a reasonable profit in the price. According to Article 17 of Law No. 458/2000 Coll., the Energy Act, was established by the Energy Regulatory Office, which is intended in particular to protect the legitimate interests of customers and consumers in the energy sectors. According to Law No. 265/1991 Coll., on the competence of the authorities of the Czech Republic in the field of prices, the Energy Regulatory Authority is entitled to exercise competence in price regulation, to issue price regulation legislation and to issue price regulation decisions, including rules for keying costs, revenues and the economic outcome of regulated and unregulated activities. It is possible to appeal to the ERU's management to increase attention in ensuring economically justified costs included in the heat energy price during the price controls submitted by the heat supplier. At present, an amendment to the Energy Act is also being prepared, which will, inter alia, specify consumer protection in the energy sectors following new European legislation and methodologies. The amendment will be submitted by the end of this semester. Third question: How will the disintegration of EST systems be prevented and small consumers protected? Final consumers are protected under the Energy Act, § 77 para. 5 which states that a change in the mode of supply or change in the mode of heating may only be carried out on the basis of a building procedure with the consent of the environmental protection authorities and in accordance with the territorial energy concept. The MIT participates in the preparation of the implementing regulation of the MIT, which sets the economic conditions for possible disconnecting from the EST systems. However, heat undertakings must be aware of the situation that could lead to the end of their business, especially considering that part of these undertakings is partly owned by municipalities. The update of the state energy concept, which is now being completed, also includes a number of legislative and methodological tasks for the MMR and the MIT, which are aimed at a higher level of commitment of territorial energy concepts and strengthening the protection of the established mode of supply of heat in the territory in the construction process. In summary and underlined - protecting central heat supply does not lead through competition from other sources, this rather increases the risk that the heat supplier will go bankrupt. The solution is either that there is deeper and better regulation, or that it is a community of its own that does not maximize profits as the main objective of its business, but a service for its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u81	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Šidl if he has an additional question. You have room, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u82	Thank you for your answers to the Minister. Basically, I am satisfied with them because, in particular, the answer to the second and third questions, when he spoke about the preparation of an amendment to the Energy Act, I, after experience in the Chamber of Deputies, would be very happy to resolve the problems that have been raised here. Because factual price regulation is a very important moment and I understand that it is also one of the very important regulatory elements that can affect the end price for the customer. If this translates into an energy law and is presented in the term that the Minister said, I think we can all be satisfied. As far as central heat sources are concerned, I see his proposal as the first one, and I think that it is also real, deeper and better regulation, price regulation and regulation of heating at all as such. However, I would very much like them to find the position they deserve in the state energy concept of the central heat source. I think it is a traditional network economy in the Czech Republic that guarantees these services of other public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u83	Thank you. It was also drawn in 14th place by Mrs Kateřina Konečná. He's intersecting Minister Richard Brabec. Mrs Anna Putnová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Dear Ministers, Minister of the Environment, Czech Environmental Inspection is a professional body of the state administration and its activities affect all at least five component environmental laws. It monitors compliance with decrees, administrative decisions and has a number of other activities. It has national competence. It's just a basic building and control stone of law enforcement from your department's workshop. I admit it must be spared, but I also admit that it should be saved where it makes sense. In 2008, the development of current operating expenditure without non-budgetary resources was CZK 73.5 million in the Czech inspection. In 2013, it was already 20 million less. In doing so, the number of people of the Czech inspection decreased by 29 to 571. In order to compare it with other inspections, whether it is the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, where 419 people work and other current expenditures are CZK 81 million, or other inspections that are normally around CZK 100 million, I think we have a limp here. At the same time, Czech inspections are increasing legal obligations. Last year alone in the Act on Integrated Prevention, the Czech inspection had to accept other people and other, very important tasks were imposed. Since the Ministry's budget for 2045 is about to be prepared, I wanted to ask you, Minister, whether you are planning to finally appreciate the importance of this state body, to appreciate the activities of its people, who are also in the average wage tables at most of the lowest position, and what do you intend to do in order for the Czech environmental inspection to continue to carry out its legal duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u85	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask Minister Richard Brabec for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that I realise that Czech environmental inspection is an essential part of the functioning of the environmental protection system in the Czech Republic. When I came to the resort and got acquainted with individual organizations, of course I talked to all the key directors. I must say that especially at this point, and I agree with you that the restriction that went across, i.e. Of course, I do not approve of the 10% reduction in costs, including personnel costs, which was the government decision in 2013, either. However, the average salary, if I'm right, I think we have the same numbers, is approximately CZK 26 or CZK 27,000. The truth is that most, about 75 percent, employees of CIP have higher education and there we agree that the average salary is low. On the other hand, you, as an environmental expert and a resort expert, know well that e.g. in the area of protected landscape areas, the average salary is even about CZK 20,000 and there is also most of the university educated. I'm not saying that I'm happy with it, I'm just saying that P.I.P. isn't the worst at it. I have even more than an average salary there, and I agree that the fluctuations that are currently unsustainable in the Czech environmental inspection, especially in the case of younger people, are certainly unsustainable. This is simply unsustainable, as was inflation, virtually. a huge exchange of people and fluctuations at their own resort, at the Ministry of Environment. This means that I would also like to hear a clear strategy for further functioning from the current management of the Czech Environmental Inspection, as I do not yet have it there. I lack a clear concept of how to go further, I also lack a concept of the number of employees necessary for the performance of the service in individual regional workplaces. This, believe me, will be a key point for next year's budget and next year's preparation, 2015, which will be crucial. It's obvious it's not just about people, but it's for example. About investment projects that I know just went away. Unfortunately, the past administration of the Ministry, I think, also the previous, quite justified efforts to introduce e.g. The central information system for administrative management has been silaged there, and today we are in a state where the Czech environmental inspection has a real problem, even with this essential information support, which is necessary for its activities. I'll be very brief. I want to assure you that in the next year's budget, not only for the Czech environmental inspection, I will certainly want justified investments, which the management will justify, and, of course, the issue of personal costs, which the management will justify, i.e. I don't want to increase all salaries there, but I'm really gonna want management to justify the quality of individual people, individual workplaces, and that's what I think is missing today. This means that it is a whole, a matter or a complex matter for me, not only a matter of pay, but it is a matter of the strategy of the Czech Environmental Inspection, which I do not consider as a repressive body today, but also as a prevention body, and I see a relatively large difference in quality between the various regional workplaces. And that, too, is an important finding for me, which I will definitely want to discuss with the management of the Resort Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u87	Thank you, Minister. Will you have an additional question, Madame? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u88	Not a follow-up question, maybe just a statement. We were talking about the Nature and Landscape Agency not so long ago that there are even the lowest salaries. Perhaps it is strange that the salaries at the Ministry are approximately 34 to 35,000 on average. Now, I don't want to lower the value of people, even in the ministry, college students work, but when these people do field work, they have very complicated tasks, they do government and they're actually undervalued against the people of the ministry, so I don't think it's a good way to go, and it doesn't create a good environment. I would like to thank you, Minister. Believe me, I will monitor your efforts because I think that we should not let Czech inspection fall, and I will certainly be glad if, as you said about information technology and a number of other things that have not been done out of political will in the long term in the Czech inspection, it is normally done and understood. Believe me, you'll have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u89	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Anna Putnová. Interpels Minister Marcel Chládek. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u90	Good afternoon, Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of last year, the Ministry of Education published a catalogue of requirements for a common part of the state graduation, as required by Section 78 of the Education Act. On the basis of these published catalogues, common sections of state graduation will be conceived from 2015. Since then, we have also been talking about the need for further discussion, which will deepen the prestige of a common part of state graduation, as the Ministry has repeatedly promised us in the past. My question is therefore directed to the Minister of Education, Minister Chládek. I would like to know whether you are preparing changes in the common part of state math since 2016, because if that were the case, it is clear that these changes should also be reflected in the catalogue of subjects and the catalogue of requirements that would necessarily have to be published by the end of April. If you are planning changes, I would like to know which experts, respectively. associations, were invited to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u91	Thank you, Madame. I will ask the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is true that we are preparing changes, but, above all, this concerns simplifying the process of state graduation with regard to administration. Next, we want to make the state graduation more efficient and cheaper. My favorite comparison with Slovakia, where the year of state graduation costs 10 million. CZK, in the Czech Republic we still did not get below 200 miles. Crowns. A working group has started to work, which is auditing the resources of state maths and checking them out. He also examines signed contracts which, in my personal opinion, were clearly disadvantageous to the state. But at the same time for your question - we have opened a national round table, which deals more comprehensively with the form of state graduation and content pages of their composition. There are representatives of both Cermat, Ministry of Education, Czech School Inspections, National Institute of Education, School Councils of the Association of Regions, representatives of the Czech Republic, Association of Directors of Gymnasiums, experts in education from the academic sphere, and representatives of Unites of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists, Association of methodologies of foreign languages, Association of secondary school Czechs. The meeting has already started, but I have one offer for the Member and for all the representatives of the school committee. Any one of you would like to participate in these negotiations and be part of this national round table, which will solve the state graduation for the future so that it has one final form, so you are certainly invited. Then there is an experimental verification of mathematics plus. I'm sure the MP knows about that. The aim is to increase the level of mathematical literacy, because it counts, I guess, from 2020, that compulsory mathematics will be introduced at state graduation as such. And, as I said, since 2016, we have been emphasising, above all, the effectiveness of cost reduction and simplification of organizational technical security for state graduation. There is one major problem with state graduation, namely that the predecessors have committed me to signing certain contracts and that they have poured European money there and there must be sustainability, that we must hold a certain part of the form after the end of these contracts, so that we do not have to return money to the European Union. Perhaps for your information, the pilot verification that will take place will take place in the integration systems already this year, and then the certification of schools and ongoing certification will be prepared, which will come into line with the possibility of developing the test part not with the paper form, but to tilt it into the electronic form, that means that there is a unified system. If we have electronic testing of pupils of the 5th and 9th classes, so that we have this in the test form in the test section of state graduation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u93	Thank you. Mrs Putnová will still have an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u94	I want to thank you for listing the persons, whether they are legal or natural persons, who are involved in the concept of the catalogue of requirements. However, I would like to ask if you intend to publish a new catalogue of requirements at the end of April, which would also allow another form of graduation from 2016, because if this does not happen, the catalogue of requirements remains valid and we will follow the old timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u96	So I'm just going to pick up on the previous performance in a short time. One of the topics of the round table was also a catalogue of requirements, but now experts are talking about aligning with the state graduation process as it is, and changing the state graduation so that we do not jeopardize the European Union's funding. So, yes, the request catalogue was the topic of the last round table meeting, but we'll have the result over the course of this month. So if that's enough for you, at the end of this month, I'd like to introduce you to the school committee in more detail, if possible, to a change in the catalogue of requirements. Again, we're looking at the way state graduation changes at all, and the reason is that probably even in quotes of 80 miles. The koruna was from the European Union, but it obliges us to hold the part of the project in some form. Maybe if I may ask the school committee, let's put it in session at the end of March or early April, and we can actually introduce you to the whole concept of these changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u97	Thank you, Minister. The 16th in the ranking was drawn by Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. He also intersects the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. Mr Radim Holeček will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the Mladá fronta published an article by Masaryk University today bought overpriced machines for CZK 100 million. I have read this article carefully and obtained some additional information that shows that Masaryk University awarded a public contract for the supply of two pieces of 3T experimental human whole body magnetic resonances, tomographers Siemens Magnetom Prisma for CEITEC Masaryk University, probably at the university campus. The award of the contract was thus carried out in a negotiated procedure without publication, referring to the uniqueness of the technical specification of the product, which is not available for any other producer. The evaluation committee decided on the supplier of the contract in January 2014 and the award to Siemens for 102 million. Crowns. The contract was therefore awarded in a non-publicised regime. According to the article, it was 102 miles. CZK, which does not correspond to the normal price for two 3T MRI systems, and in the regular tender the price could be around 70 to 80 mil. Crowns. However, the contracting authority claims that these magnetic resonances are unique and that they have acted in accordance with the CEITEC methodology. He had a total of four expert opinions, which consisted of justifications for uniqueness, based on the grounds that other similar solutions and valuations of the case could not be used. So I would like to ask you a few questions: 1. Who was involved in the approval of the project? 2. Who is the author of the CEITEC public procurement methodology? 3. Who is the author of expert opinions? 4. Are these expert opinions drawn up in accordance with the law on experts? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] 5. Do these assessments contain a proper and reviewable valuation of the case and can it be shown that all six unique features mentioned in the justification for the application of the negotiated procedure are provided only by the selected supplier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u99	Thank you. I ask for the answer of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I did not read the article Young Front, but I listened carefully. I'm afraid, Mr. Ambassador, I won't be able to answer all the specific questions right now. If I miss anything, we are able to give you an answer in writing, bearing in mind that responsibility for the procurement for the purchase of magnetic resonance imaging is granted by the recipient, which means Masarykův University. As far as the requirements of the Ministry of Education are concerned, before approving this technology in this project, not - I note again - the contracts themselves, the Ministry does not approve the contract, but, as far as the technology is concerned, Masaryk University, as you have already mentioned, has submitted one expert and three expert opinions stating that three of these assessments have been drawn up by foreign experts from France, the Netherlands and the United States of America, and one domestic expert opinion has been drawn up by a professor from the Czech Technical University. Name - now I can't answer whether I can or can't say on the microphone, but just in case, Mr. Ambassador, I'll tell you the name after my performance. [[16.30 hours]] The Ministry of Education also requested further expert evaluation of the evaluator, because of course it will control this whole matter, with the fact that - and this is probably essential information - the purchase expenditure has not yet been submitted by Masaryk University to the Ministry of Education. So the data we need has not yet been submitted, but then, of course, there will be a logical process: once Masarykův University presents them, it will, of course, be checked in these, as in other similar cases, and the control will include the right of use of the negotiated procedure without publication, which you have referred to. It is already from the mentioned project of the operational programme of education for development, innovation. VAVPI is, of course, in a huge problem that I inherited. One of the big problems is also affecting this project. As far as unique equipment is concerned, the argument is usually used that a classic selection procedure cannot be used when it is produced, for example, by only one single one in the Republic. All of this, of course, will be examined by the Ministry of Education. In conclusion, I would like to point out once again that the recipient of the Masaryk University subsidy is fully responsible for the procurement, but the Ministry of Education will, of course, examine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u101	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask if there will be an additional question. It will be. So, Mr. Ambassador, let's ask you a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u102	Yes, thank you for your answer. Dear Minister, my point is whether the system of control over the award of similar contracts at the Ministry of Education and at the relevant university is because, for example, it seems that these controls are not very good within the framework of this programme. And it is not only in the Ministry of Education, but also in other cases where money is provided under this programme. I'm just taking the liberty of quoting an expert. Petr Kneppo of the Czech Technical University in Prague admits that Siemens Prisma is not unique. There is one comparable device. However, it warns that one detail was important for university experts. Siemens Prisma is said to offer an extremely powerful gradient system that can change viewing angles faster than other devices. But they did not explain what they needed such a quality for, Mr. Kneppo's shoulders crouch. The fourth expert on questions from the Young Front has not answered. The question is that even Mr Ivan Rektor, the head of the research group that requested the instruments, could not describe scientific intentions that could not be done without a gradient from Siemens. [[Attention on time.]] It's just the last thing I'd like to ask, and I'd like to ask for those expert opinions that have been processed, if these are really relevant expert reports under the Law on Legal Experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u104	Thank you. Just allow me to take a short reaction. Personally, I can't assess whether all the data given in the daily press correspond to reality. But I am offering you, Mr. Ambassador, let us go - because the Ministry of Education will, of course, examine this order as it has done in the past. I mostly have the opposite link, however, that those end users complain, that, on the contrary, controls are too strict and sometimes unnecessarily meticulous, more than, for example, the demands of the European Union. We're working on it now. But I'm offering you, let's take a look at this together, because I personally want to examine this project on the basis of this interpelation, and we can look directly, if the honourable Chamber of Deputies forgives this expression, look into the guts of the whole project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u105	Thank you for your answer. Mr Radim Holeček, who is interviewing Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, was awarded the 17th in the ranking. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u106	Dear Minister, let me draw attention to the contradiction between your pre-election promises and today's reality. You promised to support active citizens. But now you come up with proposals that are strictly hostile to hardworking people. So I want to ask you why you intend to limit spending flats for businessmen. They are not entitled to leave, to sick leave, they are not protected by the Labour Code, they do not have certain income. For many people, the trade profession is the only way to secure employment and to provide work for others. Why do you want to make such a difficult situation harder for them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask for the answer of Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, our big problem is the media. They often write or maybe we can't read well. We didn't say we were going to limit anything. We said we wanted to have a debate about some flats. For example, a lawyer who can earn 80 million a year and subtract 60 percent of the flat rate, for example. Or some consultants. So it doesn't have anything to do with the real businessmen and craftsmen, that's misinformation. There was no such thing. Of course, tradesmen only contribute to the budget, taxes pay only 14 percent, and we want to have a debate on this. And I've met various tradesmen and we'll continue our consultations. You're welcome to debate. Nobody made a decision. We said we want to hold consultations and debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u109	Thank you. I would like to ask whether Mr Holeček will have an additional question. That's right. Let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u110	It's just a supplement. The flat rates are only up to two million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u111	Thank you, it was just a supplement, it wasn't a question. In that case, next in line was drawn by Mr Václav Zemek, who interpels Minister Antonín Prachař. And Mr. Daniel Korte will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, my intervention concerns the construction of a railway corridor in the section Votice-Tábor, and this specifically concerns the purchase of land. My constituents or mayors from the municipalities concerned, where this corridor is taking place, have turned to me. There's no problem with the route itself. The problem is with the purchase of land, namely the purchase price is deeply underestimated, what was offered to them, and of course it aroused a great deal of resentment and great resistance even though these citizens agreed with the corridor there. I don't have to stress that there was a deterioration of their land, and the corridor isn't going to help them, because there's gonna be a high-speed track that won't even stop there in those villages. There were several questions from the mayors of the municipalities about the possibility of increasing the purchase price. For the sake of interest, they were offered 7 crowns per square metre, with 80 crowns being offered for purchase on the motorway corridor. Just an interesting thing, some of the affected landowners, and I note that they are not speculators, but old-timers who have lived there for generations, some of their fields rent the cooperative for 20 crowns per square metre. So even the price offered was deep below this, which I don't think is quite good. The situation is simply blocked there, and my intervention is directed at you to make some sort of solution in terms of negotiating a new price or unblocking the situation, and I would therefore turn to you with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u113	Thank you for your question, Mr. Ambassador. I'd like to ask Minister Antonín Prachař for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u114	Mr President, Mr Member, I really must thank you very much for such questions. I wish there were more, because I need to know where the problem really is. Over the last ten years, the volume of transport infrastructure buildings in the state's property has increased. One of the fundamental problems that contributed to delaying the preparation of buildings was property rights problems, but mainly the problems with land purchases. The sale of land and buildings to investors has in many cases been the subject of speculation - which you are saying is not in this case. But it is also necessary to mention this because this situation was really and perhaps still exists, aimed at obtaining property benefits. The land was purchased immediately when it was known as part of the territorial plan that some infrastructure would run there, and it was bought for the credit of agricultural land, and it was awaited for their evaluation. It was a beautiful example of a decent business, better than an investment company. That's reality. The legislation allowing the setting of the prices of real estate and related expensive constructions to be precisely non-discriminatory also contributed to speculation. This was pointed out in the past by both the professional and the general public. The response to this situation was the adoption of Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure. Unfortunately, the Chamber of Deputies here, which adopted this law, went completely to the other side of the wall to the wall, and today it seems that we, under this law, can buy land in a bonita existing, not in a bonita that could be there, and only at a price that corresponds to that bonita. Basically, if it is arable land, the bonita of arable land is five crowns, and for that we can redeem with the effectiveness of this law. Previously, part of the land that was purchased was bought out as so-called. the market price in time and place normal. This is not what the current legislation allows us to do. We were looking for solutions, and we were even dealing with possibilities - the decree of the Minister of Finance on so-called. a factually adjusted price which could be used in this case to remedy this condition. Unfortunately, when we found out the entire legislative process, no decree could go above the law level. That means the Treasury Secretary's decree wouldn't help us at all, and it could be the subject of another attack. So this law applies. It is a legal standard binding on the Ministry of Transport, the Resort Investors, the owners of the land concerned and the municipalities concerned. It is because of the repeated reservations - I do not hear this for the first time - the owners of the land and the mayors of the municipalities to low purchase prices that the Ministry of Transport wants to find an acceptable solution as soon as possible. The only acceptable solution is to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a quick brief technical amendment to Act 416 to remedy the situation that is preventing us from buying land today. I completely understand that citizens or institutions, municipalities, sold some of the land for some value to the State before this law was effective, and today the law says that the value is possible at 10 percent. I understand that citizens are reluctant to follow this. Indeed, we will do everything we can to remedy this situation legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u115	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask - do you want to ask an additional question? That's right, in that case...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u116	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to add some more. Of course, I appreciate the Minister's efforts to address the situation, but it is probably not a very satisfactory answer for the people of the sections concerned. It is hard to explain that they have to receive some low amount when, for example, within the framework of church restitutions the replacement was much higher. I would point out that, of course, there are many speculators, but let us also defend those citizens who are not and are simply affected by the construction. And let's face it, even their other land was destroyed by the construction that's in the public interest. The state actually repays them by not compensating them in any way. I'll take your word for it, Minister. I hope to see you in some way and to do some sort of negotiation. Anyway, thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Daniel Korte, who interpels... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm still asking for the Minister's response. I'm sorry, Mr Kort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u118	I, not directly to the question of the Member, but I would just like to clarify or add. As regards the purchase of land in general as regards the impact of the price of land on the price of the work, we are talking about the share of investment costs in the size of 1.5 to 2 per cent. Indeed, if the price of land today is between 1,5 and 2 per cent of the value of the work, we are now reaching a discount of around 25 to 35 per cent in the tender procedure. And the problem of land purchase really needs to be resolved very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u119	Thank you. And now Mr Korte is intersecting the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Mr. Leoš Heger will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u120	Dear Minister, against the background of events in Ukraine, when Russia violates international law by its aggression, occupation and annexation of Crimea, as well as its own contractual obligations, the question arises: The ambassador of the Czech Republic to the Russian Federation is Vladimír Remek, a forged communist of the pro-Moscow arming, the hero of the Soviet Union, who even did not hesitate when he went to hand over his credentials to President Putin, pinned this award on his lapel, and whose loyalty to the Czech Republic is therefore more than dubious. Do you think it's a person in his place under the circumstances?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask for the answer of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u122	Have a nice afternoon. I would like to say in the introduction that if someone were a forged communist, which I dare not say at this point, if he were a forged communist, I do not think that it would be opening too many doors in Russia at present, because if I recall correctly, the Communist Party is not a major force. I think Russia is a hard-core capitalist state today. It even seems to me that it is a state that demonstrates capitalism so hard to cut, that even the West is breathless. And it is no coincidence that recently in Hungarian newspapers, such extremes, I read the enthusiastic call that Putin, the true representative for the hard extreme right in Hungary. So the question is, is there really anyone who was a communist who has an open door in Russia today? But I don't want to judge. Something else is important to me. I remember Mr. Remk - he worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the representative office in Moscow between 2002 and 2004. I remember him from that time as an employee of the Moscow Embassy. And if I may, of course, I haven't been there for a long time, and I have the information, it wasn't entirely systematic, but all I know is that Mr. Remek worked there very responsibly, and he did the job simply so that I don't know any objections about him. And when I associate this with the fact that I remember Mr Remek over the years of the European Parliament, and that was, I believe, in 2004 to 2013, it was quite a number of years, even at that time I met Mr Remk because of some particular things, as a matter of fact, I met, so my impression is that he was and is a person who was, whether he was a commercial representative or working as a Member in the European Parliament, so he was quite clearly always defending the interests of the Czech Republic. I'm telling you this as my personal conviction, the impression I've made. And I admit that today I've learned over the years that I've been trying to evaluate people really by what I see they're doing. And I don't know anyone who's told me anything about Mr. Remek in recent years that suggests that he may serve any other interests or that he's not an equal person. I'll tell you personally, he seems like a fairly direct person. I don't think it's when I've ever talked to him that he's manipulating me. I feel like he's an honest man doing his job the best he can. I am, of course, - this decision to be an ambassador was at a time when I wasn't a foreign minister. But basically, I have no special reasons to disagree with this nomination today or protest against it, because what I know about it is a person who has really always behaved well. [[16.50 hours]] And I really do not know that he would not defend the interests of the Czech state in those public positions in which he was or at the State Department. So he has my trust in that way. And I'm not saying we're not supposed to care about people's past at all. But I just don't feel like it's something Mr. Remk should disqualify in this thing. We can talk a long time about the extent to which he can be helped in Russia by the former Communist Party membership today - and is the famous story of Mr Remek as the first cosmonaut of the then socialist Czechoslovakia. Some people think it's a big deal. True, in certain circles it can mean an open door. I believe that this is true today in a limited way, that Russia is elsewhere today. For me, Russia is not really communist Russia anymore, but I repeat, it is a hard capitalist state. And I don't think last night's communist card means much there anymore. But that's not the point. The point is, I don't really have any information to disqualify Mr. Remk. And I wish that mission was a mission that he could prove what I've heard and know about him so far. So I'd be careful in court about people. I think if we don't have anything concrete, we should all be careful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u123	Thank you. Mr Korte will have an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u124	You yourself, Minister, have spoken highly critically about the situation in Crimea, and I appreciate this position. Have you considered withdrawing the ambassador from Moscow for consultation, which is a minimalist expression of criticism and disapproval in diplomatic speech?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u125	So I'm gonna ask you to talk to the microphone so everyone else knows what you're talking about. [[Smile in the hall.]] Okay. The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u126	Yes. Perhaps the answer will be enough that Mr. Remek will come to Prague and I will meet him tomorrow, I suspect, at 11 o'clock. So I'll meet Mr. Remk tomorrow at 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u127	Thank you. Mr Leoš Heger, who interpels Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, was drawn in the 20th place, and Mr Jiří Valenta will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u128	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my interpellation was a prejudice of an interview by Mr Svoboda, who here is a topic of 2 billion. The missing ones in the hospitals were divorced and received answers that made some things clear. Well, I dare to go a little further. Minister, through Mr President, you just promised that the money for hospitals would be released, and you acknowledged your mistake in agreeing to the ČSSD request to cancel regulatory fees. This can be recognised as manly and fair, like you said here about your business problems abroad and a bad investment of one billion. This happens in the business sector, it cannot be avoided. I appreciate this statement. But I have to ask, if we are not to understand this as well, that the error to agree to the abolition of charges was a mistake which actually recognises the arguments of the right that the inefficiencies in our health care are, and that when we took over health management in 2010, I mean the right, including Mr Kalousek, we were able to maintain health care and find reserves of 30 billion. without loss of quality. So if it doesn't mean we were right about the medical reserves being in there? [[Attention on time.]] Or should we also understand that it was a mistake to conclude a coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u129	Thank you. I will ask the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u130	Colleagues, colleagues, the 2.1 billion debate that needs to be replaced with those canceled fees is just that every resort doesn't want to draw their money, but it always wants to use state reserves. And right now, the SÚKL account is 2.1 billion. Crowns. And it's also amazing that SÚKL's income doesn't go into the state budget. So if Mr. Němeček wants it, he'll take it out of the account tomorrow, and he can pay it right away. Then he's got 3.5 billion there, too. reserves. So it's a debate between the Treasury Secretary and the ministries that always want something extra, and they have reserves there. And, of course, they don't want to save much either. And a debate about the right. Well, I'm the former ODS voter and we're the center-right movement... [[with a smile]] The fight for the right... I don't know if I'm supposed to read everything the ODS has behind me, health care... I already suggested it. I'm just going to ask Minister Heger, "How did you manage those hospitals when the director of Homolka created the daughter that Minister Holcát couldn't even check on? And when the I.R.S. was doing a check, he took a big fine there, and apparently Rittig had a drug distribution warehouse in some tin closet as a drug supplier. I don't know how you guys ran those hospitals. That until now, we don't actually know how it was flowing. So I wouldn't really brag about it as a right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u131	Thank you. Mr Hegř, supplementary question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u132	Thank you. I'd just like to comment on the SUKL. The money at SÚKL is, we knew that too. But I'd just like to inform myself that without changing the law, you can't really touch the money. That might be possible in another sector, but not here. Otherwise, we called off Director Homolka. Not quite managed to make it to the end, I'll give you that. We called off Director IKEM, where things have improved significantly. So these things aren't that simple with hospitals. Maybe I'd still ask if what they say is true is that you want to know about the health information where the money goes. I think it's obvious. The money flows into three million of our sick. And that's 250 billion. It's quite small.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u133	Thank you. I will ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš to complete his reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u134	I would like the health insurance companies to finally start following the law. This means publishing all healthcare contracts, including all documents and payment arrangements. Thanks to this, we will finally know the prices for which insurance companies pay medical services for state money. So far, insurance companies have refused to provide this information, although the courts have repeatedly decided that the public is entitled to it! The secrecy of contracts allows insurance companies backstage to deal with medical devices. If insurance companies publish contracts, we will see for the first time how much the insurance company pays for the same operation by two different establishments. And the insurance company will have to rationally justify these differences. Some media say that some medical establishments are financially advantageous to others for no reason. And here corruption plays a role. There are even rumors that the insurance company has managed to starve some hospitals, e.g. I talked to the owner of Brandýs nad Labem Hospital, whom Mr. Bendl had a great privatization, and then they could be taken over by related investors. So VZP starves targeted, and then somebody... Let's see what happens with Saint Anna and the Mayo Clinic, where there are funds, and some of those cell investments up north, etc. I'm so curious when it's going to spread out, what the right-wing will say about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u135	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Valenta, who intersects Minister Antonín Prachař, was awarded the 20th in the first place. Mr. Adam Vojtěch will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u136	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Transport, allow me to interpel you at this point on the quality of reception of telephone signal and mobile internet on trains of the Czech Railways on the main railway lines of the Czech Republic. This income is not only based on my current findings, for example on one of the backbone links, line No. 170 Prague-Pilsen still absolutely insufficient. This fact contrasts sharply with other railway transport companies' access, which provide their clients with free WIFI connection. For your information: České dráhy provide wi-fi only at Pendolino, often in insufficient quality. České dráhy claims that mobile communications services are provided by operators and regulation for the state is provided by the Czech Telecommunications Authority. In addition, they add in their opinion that if reception of a signal in a given location is of sufficient quality, then there is no problem to make phone calls to and from a moving train, regardless of its construction. So it says something completely different than Vodafone, for example, whose commentary is that the low quality of mobile phone signals took place with the Czech Railways of the long-term negotiations, which, however, ruined the reality of the significant complexity of companies and institutions linked to the Czech Railways. Telefónica also conducted negotiations with the Czech Railways, and even offered installation of repeaters, repeaters, at least in premium sets InterCity and EuroCity, with these facilities being willing, one brother for 1.5 miles. Kroner, I pay. In the end, a common agreement did not take place. Let's ask why. If the Ministry of Transport responded to the whole problem in 2012 by expressing that its objective is a railway with all the standard parameters of the 21st century, why do the Czech Railways still stand on their own and present the view that the problem does not exist for them and that operators themselves are not interested? I repeat, however, that operators declare their interest and, on the contrary, I draw attention to technical barriers on the trains of the Czech Railways, such as the metal-plated glass of wagons and also - [[Attention on time. The MP only wants to give two sentences.]] - that we cannot negotiate with the Czech Railways despite all efforts and that we also have to negotiate with SŽDC and other entities in a difficult and unsuccessful manner. So, Minister, I am asking you a clear question: When, at least on the backbone lines, at least in the speeding company České dráhy, will we finally see a high-quality mobile signal, which is actually a standard in civilized countries nowadays? Thank you for your attention and your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u137	Thank you. That was a really long two sentences. I'll ask the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u138	Mr President, Mr President, this interpellation is from a completely different court than the one I have been intersected to so far. However, covering railway lines by telephone signal is a purely commercial matter for mobile operators and carriers who are trying to offer passengers adequate telephone services, data transfers. It's on the railroad, it's on the same road. I'm sure there's a lot of people that you're also reading that you're losing a signal in cars on highways. That's reality. In the past, you are right, negotiations were held between the Czech Railways and individual mobile operators to complement the coverage of the backbone lines with a signal, but these negotiations did not lead to a positive result because mobile operators assessed the coverage of missing sites on the railway network as loss-making. Some lines are filled with people, some lines or some trains are unfilled. Given that it is purely at the operator's commercial discretion whether or not to cover the territory by means of its signal, the Department of Transport is in no way responsible in this respect. However, there were more questions in your interview, and I'll prepare a written answer for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u139	Thank you, Minister. There will be an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u140	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, and, as you rightly said, I will request written interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u141	Thank you, you'll get a written answer. Next is Mr. Vojtěch Adam, followed by Mr. Ivo Pojezný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u142	Dear Minister of Transport, all of us who spend our lives on the D1 motorway know how difficult the situation is. This is not a long-term planned reconstruction on several sections at the same time, but other, unplanned deadlines that complicate the situation on D1 much more. And basically, they don't even know about information servers or Global Assistance. The point is that the Road and Motorway Directorate's staff arrive, close any section of the highway with a narrowing to one lane, and there is a big problem, because the marking is imperfect. The worst part is that there is usually a minimum of workers in a single line narrowing and often it is not clear what they are doing there. My question is, therefore, whether these phenomena could not be reduced in the current situation by the comprehensive general reconstruction of the D1 motorway and not make life more difficult for drivers than is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u143	Thank you. It's an interpelation that also goes to the Minister of Transport, so I'll ask Minister Antonín Prachař for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Member, regarding the deadlines on the D1 motorway, the modernisation of the D1 motorway began at the beginning of May 2013 and in the construction season 2013, preparatory work and provisional extension of the motorway by 3/4 metres were carried out on all these sections, on sections 05, 09, 14 work in the middle section was carried out. During the summer of 2013, the work on section 21 took on considerable slippage and this slide will continue this year. Therefore, in the 2014 season, it cannot be assumed that stage III would be completed on section 21 of the modernisation of the motorway. There are some concerns with the supplier who won the tender, the public contract, the company ŽS OHL. And the Road and Motorway Directorate will insist that the OHL comply with the contract. It should be stressed that, apart from exceptional situations, the media images of the traffic collapse between Prague and Brno were not fulfilled, as the iDNES 8 stated. 5. 2013, "The D1 begins in hell," "Cars from the D1 motorway end up in broken districts" and other media outputs. Transportation along the highway took place smoothly throughout the construction season 2013 and even the tolerated and construction of overpasses during night closures proved to be successful. As regards the coordination of closures. In 2014, a building permit was issued for sections 03 Hvězdonice - Středek, Měřín - Velké Meziříčí west and section 25 Ostrováčice-Kývalka. However, against these building permits for sections 03 and 18, the Children's Earth Association has submitted a breakdown to the Ministry of Transport on the EIA requirements and we will deal with this breakdown in a very short period of time. It is therefore reasonable to assume that in the construction season 2014 work could be started only on section 25 Ostrováčice-Kývalka. For self-coordination of lockdowns. There are basically two types, and these are long-term over 48, which coordinate the Ministry of Transport individually and announces them forward. Short-term, which is carried out by the communication administrator itself on the basis of a general annual authorisation and has, for the coordination of these short-term closures established by its own coordinator. The decision on where and to what extent they are implemented lies on the shoulders of individual management and maintenance centres of the motorway. Short-term closures shall not be carried out at the time of the fore-end peak, i.e. on Friday, and shall not be carried out any closer than two kilometres from the other closure point. This system has been operating for several years and last year has been tightened up and clear competences have been established in who is responsible for what. All motorway closures are published on www.dopravniinfo.cz, including information whether this is a short or long-term event or an emergency, accident or other unplanned location. Last year, this system proved itself. The relative accident rate on the motorway was reduced with the highest work volume at the present time. Closers in the vicinity of a kilometer 160 direction Prague on the highway D1 166 to 162 is performed by the Road and Maintenance Administration Domašov. Short shutters for repairing cement concrete cover, which are necessary to maintain the serviceability of the motorway. [[17.10 hours]] Currently, from next week there are other closures on motorways and traffic will only be brought to one belt. I informed at the press conference today that there is, of course, a risk of blockade and concentration of transport. Unfortunately, we can't avoid this. We don't have a choice if we want to continue according to the D1 modernization schedule to do this closure. And the width of the highway doesn't allow us to create two plus two lanes. The information was submitted today. All information goes to the National Transport Information Centre, NDIC, Ostrava. That's all we can do at this point. We conducted discussions with the Central Motor Club to put this information in the media through its correspondents. I'm ready to process any more detailed written response to your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u145	Thank you. There won't be an additional question. The next in line is Mr Ivo Pojezný. He's intersecting Minister Milan Chovanec, who apologizes for medical reasons, so I'm going to ask you to load the intersect and be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u146	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in recent months we have often heard about the state enterprise Česká pošta. However, it is not because there are some problems with sending letters, but we often hear about the employees of the Czech Post who simply could not keep quiet about the working conditions that exist in this state enterprise. Perhaps the imaginary last straw was that workers had to offer cigarettes and many other products of so-called alliance partners - from scratch tickets to credit, insurance to chocolate bar. There might be nothing wrong with that, but if workers are required to mechanically force the product directly on everyone, it seems to me that something is wrong. Not to mention the demands placed on employees who are unmanageable during normal working hours, so workers are often forced to work up to tens of hours of overtime free of charge. The situation of Czech Post workers has long been highlighted by the Federation of Executive Employees of the Czech Post, with whom the management of the company refused to talk for a long time, but also by other trade unions of mail employees. Last November, a public hearing was held in the Senate in connection with a petition that drew attention to some of the problems related to the Czech Post, and where there were also specific suggestions. I wonder if anybody really addressed these suggestions and whether steps have been taken, or what, to remedy them. I would like to ask, Minister, if you think such conditions are in order in the state enterprise Czech Post. And if you see, as well as the post workers and many citizens of our country, that is not what you intend to do to correct the situation that I was just talking about. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the 24th, Mrs Marta Semelová, who intersects the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, was drawn. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u148	Thank you. I'll continue with the staff conditions. Record unemployment and fear for a job cause many workers who are literally bullied by employers to respond. Business chains are one of the places where working and wage conditions are very bad. For about half the average wage in the Czech Republic, they often have to do very hard work, doing Saturdays and Sundays, how many times late to the evening. Another lack of business chains is the ever more frequent shortening of jobs, on which employees are forced to nod, although it is highly disadvantageous for them, because otherwise they would lose their jobs. At present, this applies to around 70 percent of the total number of employees, and not even half of them until two years ago. Some might find it beneficial for mothers with young children. The opposite is true. A full-time employee earns around 14,000 in the business chain, from which it can be derived how much time he gets part-time. Such a single mother objectively cannot be able to feed herself and children. Against poor working and wage conditions and the gross behaviour of superiors towards employees, even in front of customers, the employees of the Karlovy Vary Macro recently heard from them. But there is a similar situation in many stores throughout the Czech Republic. I would therefore like to ask how you, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will address this situation in cooperation with the Minister of Industry and Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u149	Thank you for asking. I'll ask for a reply from Secretary Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u150	Hello. Mr President, Members of Parliament, one of the areas in which the Ministry of Labour can be active and is active is to use classical control, i.e. the State Labour Inspection Office, where business chains, as well as other areas, restaurants, stands and hotels have been given increased attention in 2013. One thing for which the business chains are controlled also concerns the fact that they very often employ agency employees, which is such a group for themselves, very damaged. And this is where a tripartite-based working group meets regularly, where we now pay particular attention to make it, when agency employees, agencies that are really okay to follow the code of work, and they're not pseudo-agents. That's one area. As for how many inspections have been carried out, I have some summarizing figures here. Maybe it would be a little pointless to read. Unfortunately, I have not received from the time-scale that is given to the interpelation, which has been specifically devoted to business chains. I'd like to ask you to accept a written answer, because it's probably gonna take a little longer to get it out. Otherwise, I can say that two thirds of the total checks were found justified. The rest were unauthorized or unproven, but these are total controls. What I'm going to focus on is to meet with employers, the chain, and at least start talking to them about this issue so they know it's being watched in some way. Otherwise, as far as future investors are concerned, we are trying to maintain some balance between luring investors here, but at the same time, whenever new investors are mentioned, I am talking about the need to ensure that the labour code is respected here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u151	Thank you for your answer. There will be an additional question. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u152	Thank you. Not so much a question, rather a statement that I'd be happy to get a written answer. Because the problems are growing, and finally, the investors you mentioned, for example, the Amazon, which is being discussed again, really need to be watched. I think it would definitely be worth it to go through the resorts. I am referring now to cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but eventually also to trade unions, so that employees still have another way of protecting their working conditions. That's what I wanted to say. I'd be happy to have a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u153	Thank you. Will you respond, Madam Secretary? Thank you, too. Next in line, 25., is Mrs Alena Nohavová, who intersects Minister Svatopluk Němeček, who apologizes today, so I will ask you to read the interview and be answered in writing. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u154	Dear Minister, my question concerns the field of dentistry. There has been a shortage of dentists in individual regions for a long time and the state is getting worse. On the one hand, doctors ending their practice do not have successors, and thus some of our fellow citizens find themselves without their dentist. On the other hand, dentists grow in German or Czech-Austrian border regions like mushrooms after rain, but unfortunately Czech patients are not treated by these Czech doctors on the Czech territory. Foreign clientele is better for them. For example Higher Brod or Lower The yard may have a better number of dentists than the regional city, but most citizens of these settlements still have to visit the dentist in Český Krumlov, Kaplice, or even České Budějovice. Ordering times are considerably extended and there is no exception for six months. What measures will you take to remedy this trivial and long-term unsustainable condition, when the Czech patient becomes a second-class patient? In this long-term unsustainable situation, aren't you considering the possibility of administratively ensuring the obligation to accept at least a percentage of Czech patients from a sluggish area where a doctor will set up an office? The next question is whether you are also considering reinstating preventive dental care for children, because prevention is cheaper than dealing with the consequences. I am thinking, above all, of the reintroducing of children's dentists in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u155	Thank you, Madame. You will get the answer in writing. Next is Mr Ladislav Šincl, who interpels the Minister of Labour and Social Works Michaela Marksová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line will be prepared by Mr René Čip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, the problems of the past and related to your ministry have been and remain a great deal. I was wondering which one to choose, whether the situation at the employment office, the payment of benefits, etc. etc. You're only in your position for a short time, so I'll spare you today, and I'll be good to you. As a topic, I chose so-called children's groups. In the Czech Republic they could start working as an alternative to kindergartens since September. The introduction of this new service, called. children's groups should be the answer to the lack of places in kindergarten. In the draft law on the provision of child care services in a children's group, there is no mention of the financing of the children's group e.g. As is the case with kindergarten. So I have a few questions for you. How, then, will child - care services be financed in a children's group? How do you want to ensure that children's groups are funded so that child care is available? Come in. Do you expect your parents to be able to pay for this care in children's groups? Come in. In the bill, you deal with the words "for parents." How specifically is this discount designed and designed only for children's groups? As part of the bill, you also propose tax relief for employers. How are these tax concessions addressed? Do you believe that the child care provider in the children's group will be used? And, Madam Secretary, do these concessions apply only to the operation of the facility or also to the establishment of a children's group? Please ask for specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That was a very large number of questions. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u158	Mr President, honourable Members, with regard to funding, child care services in the children's group are provided on a non-commercial basis. And since it is not a preschool facility that would be - the minister is no longer here - under the Ministry of Education, there are actually no subsidies. That's where other things come from. The cost is borne by the service provider and depends on the amount of remuneration he provides for the parents. It can also be said that this is particularly true for children between the ages of two and four, and that we currently have a parental contribution that can also be used to cover those services, because it is now designed so that the parent can earn unlimited income and still does not lose entitlement to parental benefit. Another source of funding is also expected from the new programming period from the European Social Fund. The pilot projects currently underway are financed by it, because it is the promotion of activities aimed at promoting childcare services and related to the application and participation of parents, especially mothers in the labour market. As far as the tax discount is concerned, yes, we are in the Income Tax Act. There is a newly introduced income tax discount for parents who use child care services up to a maximum of seven years. It's also a children's group. It concerns all preschool care facilities. There is still a tax discount for employers who will set up a children's group. There is a tax recognition of the costs of the operation of childcare facilities. As regards the costs of acquiring equipment, i.e. the acquisition of tangible assets, including any objects used for the operation of a children's group or for adjustment, these are not one-off tax costs, but will be a cost to be applied in the form of tax depreciation. Thank you for your attention. I believe that's all. I'd be happy to do it in writing, too, because there was a lot going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u159	Ambassador, will you have an additional question? That's right, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u160	Madam Secretary, I have two young children, one of whom is lucky to have gotten into kindergarten. That's why I see it a little personally. But I know a lot of parents who haven't been so lucky and are in a lot of trouble. I would like to thank you for your words on how you deal with this situation so that these parents can apply their children in children's groups or in kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u161	Will you respond to that, Madam Secretary? You won't. Okay. Winning as 27. was Mr René Číp, who interpels the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Mrs Gabriela Pecková will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u162	Dear Minister, according to information from the media, an air special has already been sent to Ukraine twice to ensure the transport of several injured to the Czech Republic for treatment and treatment. Can you tell me by what criteria these wounded were selected and whether there were only protestors or whether there were representatives of the security forces who also suffered injuries during demonstrations? If these were humanitarian reasons - I suppose that was the case, of course. Furthermore, it would not be wrong to introduce us to the competent person or team of persons who made the selection and with what assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u163	Thank you. I'll ask you for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u164	Thank you for a rather interesting question. I'm going to try to say the facts of choice now. At the beginning it should be said that the selection of injured persons was carried out by a team of paramedics posted by the People in Need company together with our representative office in Kiev. Those were the people who could be identified exactly. But the final word, who will be chosen, was, as I checked it out on the spot, doctors of the Army of the Czech Republic. In the end, they decided because they were responsible for carrying out the transfer. For information, our embassy in Kiev turned with an offer to accept the wounded also to the Ukrainian official authorities, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidential Office, but in both cases the offer remained unanswered. These two institutions didn't respond. [[17.30 hours]] The criterion by which I had to choose the injured, because I wondered how they chose, and I must say it was not easy, because there was going to be an assessment of the injured, if the aid, the transport would really help, if it wasn't life-threatening. The type of injury was assessed as serious and had to be estimated in some way, where it is clear that a similar type of assistance could not be provided in Ukraine. These assessments were very complicated, because it is difficult to tell doctors in Ukraine that they will not provide certain types of assistance. I don't want to judge the level of health care right now. Finally, our doctors told me that if our hospitals were swamped by hundreds of wounded with some such serious injuries, they wouldn't be able to do it either. This means assessing the level of assistance in conditions that have a little resemblance to the state of war, it is difficult. I also do not think that we could show ourselves in these conditions to Ukrainian partners that we may have better equipment. These were rather delicate things, and therefore the selection and assessment were very difficult, it was not easy to deal with partners on the Ukrainian side. Sometimes it was even hard to find them and judging who would eventually go was even unclear to the last moment. Sometimes it was decided simply that the patient died, even in the last hours, so there were cases that some actually died the night before the arrival, so they were on the list and found that they were no longer alive when they arrived. I happened to be on a plane that was there, so I actually had a chance to watch and talk to people on the spot. When I was wondering how the selection was, I found out that the selection had changed to the last moment. And that he was changing to the last moment, even from who was in what condition, because the condition could have gotten worse or improved. So I admit it was a pretty complicated situation that arose there. Deciding at the last minute was quite simple. It must be said that the atmosphere, to put it mildly, cramped, because imagine the atmosphere of people rather heavily... Have I wasted my time? [[President: You still have about one and a half minutes.]] I see. Of course, the atmosphere was simple. What I can say is that this has often been decided at the last moment according to the momentary development of the situation. Medical decisions were extremely difficult, and even for doctors it was sometimes difficult to say whether this case is really good and appropriate to convert and try to treat, and to assess whether there really is a better chance in the Czech Republic or are the options to cure. It is not an easy answer, and I would rather say that I am glad that we can have some pride in providing help to 38 people in this country. One of them was rescued from amputation, one of them got his eyesight back, two injured so much that they traveled back home. I was talking to a guy who had four rubber bullets in his head who smoked a cigarette and talked to me, and others were telling me that there were some who had even more bullets in their head. It was almost incredible, and it was a very special experience for me, which was not easy at all. It wasn't something according to any written rules, I admit it was happening on the spot, often based on how it was judged on the spot. Learning in this future is something that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u165	Now you've exhausted your time, Minister. I would like to ask whether Mr René Čip will have an additional question. It's not like that. Okay. There is also Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who is intersecting Minister Svatopluk Němeček, who apologizes, so I would like to ask you to read the interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am intersecting Minister Němeček from this place today because he is the one who has palliative care. Yesterday, from the TV screen, our entire company intersected with its Life and Death series, because unfortunately, death is in our minds. At its January meeting, the WHO Executive Board adopted a resolution on palliative care, which calls on all Member States to develop and implement measures for the full integration of palliative care into national health systems. So in this interview, I want to ask how the Ministry of Health is planning to proceed on this matter. Last autumn, the agency Stenmark together with the organization Journey Home with the support of MPSV conducted research on the attitudes of Czech society, i.e. both the public and the professional medical public, to death and death, from which among others. It also shows how to die in the Czech Republic. As a rule, we will learn about our terminal illness during a ten - minute conversation in the hospital room in the presence of other patients. Each fifth of us will then not know the truth about our health at all for our own good, supposedly. The study also shows that 80 percent of people would like to live their lives at home, among their own. Virtually no one wants to die in a hospital or a hospital for long-term patients, and yet it is the 80 percent who eventually die in a hospital or a hospital. The public health insurance system does not include domestic palliative care. [[President: I am sorry, Madame, time.]] And the sick refer to the visiting service of a physician who, as we know, exists only on paper. In one of the drawers at the Ministry of Health has been developed concept of palliative care since the last period. So my question is whether the Ministry is counting on restoring the work on this document, and if so, when and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u167	Thank you. I will ask Mr Martin Novotný, who intersects the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, to intersect him. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u168	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government. Dear Minister, in recent days you have informed the public about the intention to set up and establish a central bank account register. Let me remind you, I think we all know that at this point, legal regulation defines precisely which institutions and under what conditions they have the right to break banking secrets. They are, of course, tax administrators, law enforcement agencies, etc. And the main argument that emerges in this context is the complexity of the need to address situations in addressing individual banking institutions. My question goes somewhere else, that is. in your current thinking on this proposal, what you see for a change possible control mechanisms so that the central register for change is not being used to disrupt the privacy of citizens. Each such system always has two sides: It can help to combat crime effectively and, at the same time, when it blows over, it can put us all in a situation where we find ourselves in the system of a big brother. I would point out that my question is absolutely substantive, it is directed at what you have an idea of the regulatory or protective part of this intention. In that sense, I beg you for a factual answer, not a return to what has been, who has ever been in the past. Rather, an idea of how the system could function in terms of privacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Andrej Babiš to respond to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u170	Colleagues and colleagues, the central account register has been proposed here for years, like the Civil Service Act. It was even on the floor of the government, and Mr. Kubice allegedly covered it up. I don't know why. This means the central account register serves, or is intended to serve, the investigative authorities, the financial office mainly when they want to prevent organized groups from stealing from the Czech Republic in terms of excise duty and VAT, because there they go directly to accounts. Last time we had an intervention, customs had an intervention with a company that owed about 180 million tax, and of course at that point they need to see - they had one account, but they need to see all the accounts. [[17.40 hours]] It's nothing new, it's been recommended more than once, and it's basically suggested that it be with the Czech National Bank. The banking association claims to have a similar product. Our employees at the tax office and the customs office say that this is not what they need, because, of course, if someone is committing or is suspected of committing a crime and a competent police officer or a representative of the tax office is asking questions, it sometimes happens that the bank's financial advisor warns the suspect. So the point is that the organs, when it comes to time, can look at the accounts. I admit, I'm sure it's awkward, we want to have a debate about it, if it's supposed to involve individuals. I would rather say that no, that this should concern legal entities where there should be no problem. It's in the meeting. We will have a meeting with the Czech National Bank with the participation of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. It's not our idea, it's a dusty project that would actually help investigate crimes. I will also take advantage of the opportunity to give training to the ODS, which called for the FAO again, and perhaps Mr Kalousek can also give them training to repeat, because journalists are still writing disinformation about the FAO. And the FAO intervenes in 90 percent of the cases on the basis of the bank's notification. The bank reports a suspicious transaction or some other public institution, and accordingly the FAU investigates. So the nonsense that still says in the paper that the FAÚ looks at every account he wants is a lie, it's not true. I'd like everyone to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u171	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the honourable Member whether there will be an additional question. It will be, so let's put it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u172	I don't know if that's gonna be a question. I just wanted to say I didn't ask the FAO. I asked you about the matter of changing the other side of the coin, the protection. In another area, it happened to me when I lent one person a cell phone in Olomouc Square many, many years ago, after his own one was stolen, that my own cell phone had been tracked to me for four months, and I still did not know what I was suspected of. Probably from nothing. I just want to stress and ask you to think very seriously in this legislative initiative that any system is also exploitable and that the legitimate protection of the privacy of our fellow citizens is a key factor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u173	Thank you. I want to ask you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister - will you respond? No, you leave it unresponsive. Okay. Mr David Kádner was drawn as the 30th. Anyway, he pulled his interpellation. The thirty-first is Mrs Věra Kovářová, who intersects the Minister for Regional Development Věra Jourová. Mr Karamazov will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u174	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I am asking you how to allocate funds to the Czech Republic for the next programming period 2014 to 2020. Specifically, a memorandum of organisations defending the interests of rural areas, the territorial dimension, for rural development 2014 plus was published in February this year. Under this Memorandum are signed by the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities and the Association for Rural Reconstruction. At the beginning of March, the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic joined the Memorandum. This material requires that the EU's cohesion policy be allocated within the territorial dimension for the LEADER CLLD mechanism to implement projects and implemented through all certified local action groups of 35 billion. Crowns. In my opinion, this requirement is reasonably justified. Many arguments, by the way, were made at a seminar held in the Chamber of Deputies this January. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you whether the government will answer the calls of organizations representing the Czech and Moravian countryside and accept the distribution of 35 billion. CZK through local action groups and, if not, the reasons for this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u175	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask Minister Věra Jourová to respond to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I am asked about the way in which the future European funds, i.e. the funds for the years 2014 to 2020, and specifically about the distribution of money among the so-called local action groups. I would like to submit that I consider the so-called MASs to be a good instrument, a tool that has proven itself, the people who work in them, in that old period without any problems and with success have distributed relatively large money and have contributed to community development and to the federal life and development of infrastructure in the rural area at all, so that the MASs are a very strong partner for us as well as, say, some personnel capacity in the negotiations on the allocation of future money. I received a memorandum from these organizations and associations, and I have already dealt with a number of them myself. In fact, since December I have been visited and heard requests for a specific amount. In December it was 50 billion, the demand now in the memorandum is 35 billion. Everyone I deal with, I argue that one thing is the allocation of the so-called allocation, and the other thing is the one that we can't completely leave behind, that's what the money is supposed to be created for, that's the measurable indicators that are meant to be caused by the means. I think these meetings are very correct and that partners from both Masks and the Union of Cities etc. Sees an effort to agree on a reasonable model. Of course, rural development is an essential aspect of local development or regional development, so we expect that rural development will not only go through LAGs, because this is, in fact, a tool for financing certain types of projects, but also from other options through individual projects. I would like to say that these are the numbers right now. Out of the total sum, which is over CZK 500 billion for the period 2007 to 20013, we are discussing that a minimum of 200 billion would be earmarked for the so-called territorial dimension, with the fact that we are considering and going to the negotiations that will now be finalized, with a proposal for a minimum of 20 billion from cohesion policy and 7 billion from agricultural policy. So that's a total of 27 billion that should flow through the 178 so-called MASs that we're talking about here. So if I were to compare it with the previous period, if we were to think about the number of 27 billion, it's a total of 130 to 150 million crowns per so-called MASK, while in the last period it was 35 to 55 million crowns per MASK. I think that this is a big increase in resources and that the maska have our confidence that they will be able to manage and invest well defined money. [[17.50 hours]] Finally, I would like to remind you that, in agreement with the partners, we really want to mention the number of 20 billion of cohesion policy in the Partnership Agreement with Brussels as a minimum number. That means we're gonna put a stop to it downstairs. It is the minimum amount that MASKs will be able to draw, which will be guaranteed. And I'm not hiding that I'm going to want to constantly, continuously, if I'm on that agenda, evaluate how it's drawn, and sometimes in 2017, we're going to rethink individual programs and individual instruments. And if the MASs are successfully pumped and they have a demand for more money, it's possible that the amount will increase. I can't guarantee $35 billion right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u177	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I want to ask - will you? So there won't be an additional question. And 32. in the order was drawn by Mr Simeon Karamazov, who intersects Minister Marcel Chládek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u178	Dear Minister of Education, my intervention concerns the implementation of the Operational Programme Research and Development for Innovation. The official data on the drawing of OP VaVpI drew CZK 56.3 billion from the total allocation of CZK 61.2 billion as of January 2013. This means that there is a free allocation of CZK 4.9 billion. At the current euro rate, it is even more than CZK 5.3 billion. To this amount, we can add more tens to hundreds of millions of savings generated in the implementation of the project, or by failing to spend some major projects, such as ELI, on the basis of rule N + 2. So the order remains up to CZK 6 billion free allocation under OP VaVpI, which, if we can do this, we can still draw on meaningful projects. The possibility of using these funds was to support Prague universities under a new CZK 2 billion call and other calls for strengthening the R & D capacity of non-Prague institutions of around CZK 1 billion. Since Prague is a region that could not draw the funds of OP VaVpI from the definition, it was necessary to negotiate an exception with the European Commission. The European Commission, with the exception of agreeing on the condition that projects which have not yet been supported, which have been recommended for funding and remain in the so-called magazine, will be financed. These discarded projects were explicitly recommended for their quality for funding, they can be started very quickly, and due to their reasonable size around CZK 100 million also successfully implemented before the end of 2015. After all, their funding is a condition of the European Commission. So my question is whether these projects will be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u179	Thank you for the interview, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask Minister Marcel Chládek for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My answer: they will. But, of course, I'm gonna be a little longer with the answer. The amount even applies to more than 7 billion, approaching 7.5 billion. And these are the means that are currently at risk with the fact that there are many reasons. Can I start, for example, by delaying the approval of the programme, which was created sometime in the second half of 2018 (?), then destabilization of the whole section, which was in charge of European funds, long approval of large projects, long administrative deadlines at the ÚOHS, amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which unfortunately does not go entirely opposite scientific projects, and I could continue this way including the phase of the ELI project, which you also talked about. We have an action plan prepared, and one of those points is the support of the project stack, for those projects that were of such quality that they would meet all the requirements but were not satisfied. At the same time, however, we have a whole package of preparatory measures. In addition to this, it is an even greater pressure on the beneficiary, in terms of error rate, to help the Ministry of Education to eliminate these errors, methodological assistance, and a new challenge of 3 billion in the accelerated regime so that we can manage the evaluation and issuing of decisions so that these funds are not irreversibly lost. In addition, we are working on individual projects, for which, by the way, there is also a problem with sustainability, speeding up drawing, correcting errors and setting up those projects so that the project is drawn up and sustainable. Personnel stabilization, I think it's a pretty clear matter. If you replace seven deputy officers in this area and eight directors during the year, of course, it can't work. I decided that I would no longer be able to intervene in this area, because there was a number of changes in my predecessors and it did not contribute to the quality of functioning by the Ministry of Education. And on a regular basis, and that is the government's task, and that is the last of my information on this point, we have the government's task of regularly submitting a monitoring and evaluation report to inform the government on a quarterly basis of the current situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u181	Thank you, Minister. So I want to ask if there's gonna be a follow-up question. So, Mr Karamazov, ask a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u182	Minister, thank you for your clear and concrete answer. Nevertheless, I will ask an additional question. I don't know if my information is entirely correct, but I think the clips have been canceled, maybe even wrongfully. So the question is: will these bins be restored?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u184	I have information that inventory projects are available. If they've been canceled, I don't have that information, so I'll check it out. But the information I have from this section is that it's going to be one of the points, and it's going to be written in the material to the government, one of the points is going to be drawing from the stack projects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u185	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Since the last interpelation to a member of the government of the Czech Republic is possible to submit until 17.55... [[The noise in the hall.]] So I want to ask - do you agree that the last question will be asked? Well, the last question will be asked by Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u186	Dear Minister, yesterday's Mladá fronta Today forced me to ask what is the policy of the new government in selling unnecessary property in individual resorts. In the last month, the media filled information on the sale of barracks in Prague Karlín at a minimum purchase price of 581 million in the tender, where this minimum price was determined by an expert opinion. The competition was won by GRIVA ART, which offered more than 8 million more than the minimum price, and which wanted to renovate the building on the university campus. Three companies competed and two were supposed to have some unhidden property participation by Mrs. Ivana Tykač. Stronger words have been heard from the Minister of Defence - I would like to quote: "The selection procedure has been cancelled because of a dubious tender. The price of the barracks for 581 million has already been established on the basis of a single expert opinion. The structure of the owner is quite obscure." Yesterday's Mladá Fronta, however, described the sale of the house on Divadelní Street, where the expert opinion was also one and only two interested persons participated in the auction. However, the Ministry of Transport, under which the state air traffic control company falls, still conceals to the public who has won, thus theoretically it cannot be ruled out that the two candidates are also property linked and how transparent their property structure is. In the barracks tender, the minister said that the variance of the highest and lowest supply of three companies was only 8 million. At the barracks, the offer of GRIVA ART was one and a half percent higher than the minimum price. In the case of Theatre, the price of the anonymous candidate was only 0,05 % higher. Yet no one will stop at the transparency of this tender. [[This is the O.R. talking faster.]] Two ministers of the same government from the ANO movement advance in the sale of immovable property in a completely different way. I would therefore like to assure Minister Stropnický that his intervention in the selection procedure is not motivated by the surname of someone who made a public offer, there is nowhere to hide, and if the sentence of the so-called right-wing policy "then you wonder who has about 589 million cash in this country" was meant seriously, or the YES movement is introducing a new class struggle. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u187	Thank you. This has indeed been put forward with great energy. I beg you, Minister, for an answer. Thank you for your gentlemanly behavior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad it came to me. I would like to assure you, Madame, through the Vice-President, that this was one of the hardest decisions I had to make about the eighth or tenth day of my stay at the Ministry of Defence - which I did not become the shortest Minister of Defence - to accept. I'm not going to repeat the reasons or the doubts that it raised, which you put here in a relatively exhausting manner. I can't make a good comment on the other case because I hear it first. [[Mrs Cernochová responds from a place without a microphone - unintelligible.]] Yes, but believe me,
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u189	I would like to point out that questions are only put on the microphone - for stenographers. Respect that. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u190	- that I did everything I could in my view in that time frame to make that opinion as objective as possible. I can assure you that it is not, of course, easy - and I realize that - to so-called get rid of the buyer in this volume. But the whole contract represents about 75 percent of what the DOD is counting on getting rid of this year. That's why it seemed very strange to me that the Ministry itself gave so little space in the preparation and neglected so many important details that when they add up, the doubt simply is. Mrs. Tykač, and I'm not deviating her because she says she requires it, she has achieved that one weekend the Young Front wrote about nothing but her letter. I'm not hiding from any letter, he just didn't make it. It was a technological mistake, as we found out, and I'm meeting with my first deputy on Monday. We have absolutely no reason to avoid her. By the way, it's also proof of that, I think - the young front for us somehow doesn't kick in quotes. Quite the opposite. So we are now - to say something in advance, a team of Karlín is assembled at the Ministry to prepare a new tender. There's a timetable for all steps. We consider it a strict necessity for at least two opinions to be made on such a large property. We're keeping the schedule we set. The competition will be announced before it is announced, because in such a volume, the investor should have a chance to think about it properly. There's a fairy tale burden, it's not easy at all. But we believe that we will make it by the end of the calendar year, and we hope to achieve better prices. It's hard to set a basic floor price. That, too, seems to be a mistake with such a project. I really don't want to keep you. I could talk about it a lot longer, but for the moment, I'd limit myself to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u191	Thank you, Minister. You still have the possibility of a supplementary question, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u192	Thank you very much. I would just ask, perhaps, if Minister Stropnickýý could sit down with another ANO colleague and clarify how it is possible that at each resort there is a different procedure for the sale of the resort property. My second question was directed at Minister Prachař in the same regime. Unfortunately, I didn't get the chance, because it's the interpelation number 36. But it is really amazing here that two real estate cultural monuments located in the capital of Prague, each of which is chosen by a different procedure, a different approach, a different expert opinion, other numbers of applicants, and somewhere transparency is questioned, and somewhere it is secretly silent, which makes me feel that there is no way that transparency can be there, Minister Prachař. Thank you, Minister Stropnický, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-017-058.u193	Thank you. Will you respond to that? You won't. Okay. So I'm done interpelling today. Thank you. I am interrupting the House of Deputies until 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. At the request of social democracy and the agreement of the club presidents, the meeting will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you. Have a nice rest of the day.
