ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u1	89. Oral inhalation Interpelations are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn up a ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or to the Government of the Czech Republic, which will be terminated after their exhaustion. In view of the absence of the Prime Minister, oral intervention on other members of the Government will be initiated immediately thereafter, which I draw attention to both the interpelling Members and the relevant ministers. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I give the floor to Mrs Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka on mining limits in Mosteck. Mrs Alena Nohavová will be ready. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to present my interpellation. If the Prime Minister isn't here, I'll just read. Dear Prime Minister, allow me to interpel you in the matter of the Government's decision on financial support for the Dolu Paskov, thus extending the possibility of coal mining in the Moravian-Silesian Region for another three years. This government decision leads to the question of what further steps will be to break the limits for coal mining at the Czechoslovak Army's Dole in Mosteck, where mining would be secured for the next 60 years. The Ústí Region has long been facing the Moravian-Silesian Region with the highest unemployment rate in the Czech Republic. Your government declares that it wants and prepares steps to reduce these drastic numbers. So how does the government currently approach the question of breaking limits? This is not only a matter of employment, but also of economic and energy stability of the Czech Republic, which is getting worse with constant extension of solutions in this area, with the support of further political developments abroad, e.g. Ukraine. Some environmental associations supply the public with false data and data. He's also trying to take care of the whole situation. The Ústí Region has been economically supporting the whole Czech Republic for decades and it is therefore really necessary to return this support at least partially. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u3	Yes, the Prime Minister is excused, so you will receive an answer to your interpellation at the time set by the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Alena Nohavová will speak with the next interview on the matter of religious restitution, Mr Stanislav Polčák will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my interview is with the Prime Minister regarding a violation of the law on religious restitution. Dear Prime Minister, I have received information suggesting that the Ministry of Agriculture, under the direction of Master Jurečka, will not be an impartial enforcer of restitution, but will take steps to enforce restitutions beyond the legal authority of Act No. 428/2012 Sb. In particular, I have received information that the Ministry of Agriculture has issued and provided binding methodological guidance to all its departments, contrary to the provisions of Section 8 (b). (f) this law and also, contrary to the construction law, narrowed the scope of the approved territorial planning documentation, which should be taken into account in the issue of assets into a binding part of the approved zoning plan. The Ministry of Agriculture has thus unlawfully excluded from the extradition or non-disclosure proceedings a number of institutes belonging to the regional planning documentation, e.g. even valid and effective territorial decisions issued and valid regulatory plans and a number of other similar decisions, which, of course, have an impact on whether or not a particular asset can be issued. So a few questions: 1. Did the Department of Agriculture really give such a methodical instruction, and if so, were you informed? 2. Who, if instructed, is behind such an instruction? 3. What steps, Prime Minister, will you take to remedy this apparently illegal procedure of the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u5	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Next, Mr Stanislav Polčák will speak on the cost of exchange in the state administration, and Mrs Markéta Adamová will prepare herself. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u6	Thank you. He has an interview with the Prime Minister, who is unfortunately absent, with the title "in the case of the cost of the human resources earthquake in the state administration," and I have the impression that this earthquake is also reflected in the government, because unfortunately there are very few members of the government from the ministers, which I must say with great disapproval, in a situation where the last two quarters were public holidays. I think it is a bit of contempt for the parliamentary republic and parliamentary democracy. Anyway. Dear Prime Minister, my interpelation is very simple and I believe it will be as easy for you to give me a clear answer. Recently, information has come out that a massive personnel exchange has taken place in official posts after your government has taken place. I don't want to speculate on specific figures here, which you would finally know best yourself. In this context, however, I would like to ask you what costs the recent and quite possibly still ongoing personnel earthquake has required and requires. I'm sure it'll be an interesting piece of information not just for me. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u7	Thank you. Next, Mrs Markéta Adamová will speak on the matter of the reception of refugees, and Mrs Jana Fischerová will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, despite his absence, to respond to a very serious problem with many far-reaching consequences in my opinion. Dear Prime Minister, at the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, I drew attention to the possible influx of refugees from this country to us. The conflict in Ukraine has been escalating considerably since then. The Czech Republic would be a logical destination for a number of Ukrainian refugees in the event of an outbreak of war, a war conflict. Although you, together with the Minister of the Interior in the beginning, have rather downplayed this situation, you later admitted yourself that the Czech Republic is not prepared for possible influx of refugees from Ukraine. Specifically, you spoke about this at the beginning of March on Prima Partie TV. Earlier, you also said that if the situation in Ukraine had not calmed down or escalated further, you were ready to call the Security Council of the State. Since then, the Security Council of the State has been convened twice. Unfortunately, I have not been able to find any point on the issue of refugeeism among the items discussed. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry, and I'd like you to correct me. If not, I consider it alarming and I would like to ask you to comment on when you intend to address the issue of refugees from Ukraine to us, how the Czech Republic will be prepared for this situation. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u9	Thank you. Mrs Jana Fischerová on the employment of young people. Mr. Vácha will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, the content of my interview is whether your government still claims that education, education as a prerequisite for a successful individual's life, is still a priority of your government. I am asking this question because, as a Member, I am very often asked when meeting young people about the future. We know that this is not a one-time current situation, but I would still like to know if you are planning for them now, for example. simplification for entry into business, because we know that young people, if they have better conditions and are motivated to start a business, will certainly be more beneficial to our entire company than those who are dependent on benefits. So I want to ask you, if you have a government statement in your program that I read, but I haven't found the details there, some specific program, so that young people, graduates of schools, are motivated for their future by their honest work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u11	Thank you, ma'am. I ask Mr František Vácha, on the Government's position on Tibet and China, and Mr Polčák will be ready again. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, wherever you are, I would probably not stand by myself here, because you will answer me the same way you answer me, but my 13-year-old daughter came to me recently and asked me what happened with the government in Prague and that we wrote back the Tibeťan. I had to teach her a little lesson in civic education, which she probably did not pay attention to, and I explained to her what a parliament is, what a government is, and that there are certainly people sitting here in Parliament who do not agree with your government's position. I told her to write a letter saying I'd read it here. So I quote, "Mr. Prime Minister, what do you mean about China, and why did you bail on the Tibeťan for money? I understand you agree that China has taken Tibet and is doing what it wants. I mean, it's like you're walking past a guy who's getting hit. What would you do? Would you help him and maybe get his ass kicked or just look at him and worry about doing nothing? It's the same thing. Prime Minister, I don't like what you've done and I think it's wrong." I have to say, I was surprised that a 13-year-old kid would come to me with this kind of thing. Maybe they discussed it at school, but it's funny what girls like that think about. However, I am happy and glad that my wife and I have raised our daughter well, and I would ask you to answer in a way that a 13 - year - old child understands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u13	Another candidate is Mr Stanislav Polčák on privatization of OKD and Mrs Fischerová will be prepared again. Mr Polčák has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear absent Prime Minister, allow me to address you for information on the privatisation of OKD, which had not long ago stirred up the waters of Czech politics. What we have had the opportunity to read is, in my opinion, very serious. Ten years ago, when you were Minister of Finance, OKD privatization took place, allegedly under significantly disadvantageous conditions for the Czech Republic. 4.1 billion. CZK, which were then drawn to the Treasury as a consideration for the 46 percent share in OKD, is considered to be completely inadequate. According to the European Commission, however, it is different, from the point of view of the Czech Republic it found the terms of the transaction to be satisfactory. However, the current Minister of Finance, who said that the European Commission's views were based on incomplete evidence, came forward a few weeks ago and therefore, simply put, cannot be taken seriously. Dear Prime Minister, the situation where the Minister of Finance of your government views this issue diametrically differently than you do is very unfortunate because, if it is confirmed that the Czech Republic has suffered damage as a result of its failed privatisation, a clear government stance on its enforcement is not guaranteed. I'm sure you'll agree with me that up to 20 billion. The koruna that the state was supposed to lose according to some sources is not small money. Whether the suspicion is confirmed or not, the current inconspicuous situation in any case fills me with considerable unrest and I will only be glad if you manage to distract it. I would also ask for an answer that even a 13-year-old child will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u15	Thank you. Mrs Fischerová has the floor this time on support for beginners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u16	Thank you for the floor. My second interview will be very brief, I will once again point the words to the absent Prime Minister. Dear Prime Minister, I am asking a question concerning people who are trying to enter the business, wanting to start working as self-employed people, but also for those who are already working and employing others in their business, and I know they do not have it, and I think they still will not have it easy. So the question is what steps the current government is going to take to make people pay to work and not receive social benefits. I'm good with points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Fischerová was the last to be interviewed by the Prime Minister. Now, therefore, oral interpelations will follow on other members of the government. prosit ask Mr Polčák to give an interview to Minister Jiří Dienstbier and thus initiate a block of interpellation to members of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say that my initial interpellation was directed at the Minister of the Interior, but since the Minister is not here, I found it appropriate to ask the person responsible for human rights in the government. This interpelation is not a bad idea, but I would really like to hear about the information that relates to the reaction of the state to the activities of extremist political parties. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in the context of serious information on the activities of the political party No to Brussels - National Democracy, which has recently been brought by the media. From these, it is clear that the activities of the party's representatives appear to be very problematic, and a number of observers conclude that they are even contrary to the Czech legal order. I would like to point out from this point that the compilation of lists of Czech Žid belonging to these activities, but also other clear anti-Semitic activities presented by this party - let us just remember the election spot that Czech television refused to broadcast - are simply and simply shameful and totally unacceptable. Although, in view of the case law of the Supreme Courts in similar cases, I have some doubts that the Government's proposal for a direct dissolution of the political party No to Brussels - National Democracy could succeed, I do not think that this is a reason to put my hands in the lap. A more moderate measure to take into account is the suspension of its activities and the criteria to be met here should be more moderate. Until now, the main reasons behind stopping political parties' activities have been the failure to deliver formal annual reports, and I believe that anti-Semitic speeches are the reason for this incomparably more serious. Dear Minister, I would like to call on you to take the necessary steps on this matter immediately. The Democratic State must not be a weak state, especially if it is to protect the rights of its citizens, who may feel legitimately threatened by the actions of Mr Bartoš and his companions. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u19	Yes, and I ask the Minister to respond at a specified time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u20	Mr President, Madam Members, Mr Polčák, I share your concern about growing hatred in society, whether anti-Semitism or any other form of xenophobia, or the incitement of hatred against any group of people or any minority. From this point of view, I was also struck by the fact that a list of Žid was published on the website, which I consider to be a very dubious activity, by the way, even from the point of view of the reliability of the evidence presented there. It is undoubtedly the government's duty to ensure that tolerance in society is strengthened, and so has the government's commitment in its programming declaration. Specifically, the steps that are possible here, which are considered. I would like to stress that, as I have looked into the information, the list you referred to is probably not directly an activity of any particular party, although it is obviously the activity of the chairman of one particular party, which you have attributed to xenophobic negotiations. I presume and have some very piece of information, or I have no authority to find out anything in this regard that this is being investigated by the police or by the authorities in general in criminal proceedings. As far as the possibility of disbanding a political party is concerned, you yourself have expressed a great deal of skepticism about the fact that the evidence available today could lead to the dissolution of the particular party, which I will not deliberately appoint here, on the basis of the Supreme Administrative Court's case law, so as not to make any promotion. [[14.50 hours]] However, there is no doubt that the Government's obligation, in this case more specifically the Ministry of Interior, is to evaluate such information and, if it comes to the conclusion that the imputability of the unlawful actions is sufficient for the Government to submit a proposal to dissolve this or any other party, so as to do so. I don't have up-to-date information, I can't speak for the Home Office, I don't know how much this information has been collected or already collected. But if the reasons were obvious, I can only assure you that I would support such a step by the Government of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u21	The Member does not wish to ask an additional question, so this is the end of the interpellation. The next will be Mr. Hovorka, who intersects Minister Němeček in the case of the Hospital Na Homolce. Minister Němeček is excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, fellow Members, I did not know that the Minister was excused, yet I would like to read my intervention. Dear absent Minister, Hospital Na Homolce is strange by setting up three subsidiaries, namely Holte Medical, a. s., Holt, s. r. o., and Homolka Premium Care, a. s. This hospital is also exceptional because it does not have its own accounting, but its accounting is provided by the company Bialešová, s. r. o., does not even have its own economic director. There were a lot of discussions going on at Homolce Hospital last time, and as far as I know, the previous Ministry of Minister Holcát has had a thorough audit of those subsidiaries, and I would like to ask you to submit this audit and also, because I was told that the system of outsourcing the complete accounting of Bialešová, s. r. o. was considered a pilot project, at least that's what Minister Jurásková told me, so I ask you to evaluate this project and to present the result of this accounting outsourcing, if it was beneficial for the hospital at all times. And I would also like to find out who in the Ministry was responsible for controlling the management of this hospital at the time before you and at the moment and how it proved and proved to be working by the subsidiaries of Hospital Na Homolce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The answer is delivered to you within the legal deadline. Please, Mrs Kovářová, who intersects Minister Dienstbier on the adoption of the Service Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u24	Minister, I regret to say that the timetable for adopting a new service law is set in such an unfortunate way that, unfortunately, quality legislation cannot be the result. The House press number 71, which I am rapporteur, went through the first reading in the second half of this January and then headed to committees in which it is suspended. A comprehensive amendment is awaited under your leadership. I note that such a situation in itself is unstandard, but so be it, it happens. However, what I find totally unacceptable is the fact that until today, by mid-May, this Chamber has not been able to get acquainted with the text of the comprehensive amendment. According to the timetable adopted by the Government on this Monday, it is assumed that the proposal, as amended by the comprehensive amendment, should be approved by the Chamber of Deputies in June. And I ask: do you consider this rash and unprofessional way of adopting such important legislation as possible as Minister for Legislation? Do you not think that the move in which the proposal will be discussed in committees and in second and third reading will contribute to its quality? And do you consider this approach of power executives to be correct? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u25	I'll ask the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the question raised, I would like to say that the procedure that we have chosen is really motivated by the efforts to make the new service law as good as possible. I would like to stress that we are preparing rather at the coalition level, but also with the support of government legislation and the legislation of some other ministries that have to do with this topic, an amendment to the parliamentary bill. That may not really be the happiest and most standard way, but, as I have suggested, we are trying to ensure maximum quality. That is why a legislative group has been created at the Office of the Government from among the legislatures, both the Office of the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, and this group of legislators ensures that the proposal is of appropriate quality and that any possible defects are eliminated as far as possible. As far as the timetable approved by the government at the previous meeting is concerned, it is expected that by the end of May a comprehensive amendment should be initiated here, in the Chamber of Deputies, in other words, it should be tabled in advance. This proposal will, of course, be presented formally by Members and not by the government, because it is not a government proposal. Here I would like to stress that this is indeed the above-standard support provided by the government to ensure the maximum legislative quality. We are aware that we are discussing this under certain time pressure, because, in addition to the fact that we need a quality service law for our internal needs, it is in our interest in general, as well as the approval and implementation of the service law by 1 January next year at the latest, it is also one of the two main conditions for drawing European subsidies. In the event that we do not meet this timetable, the European Commission will stop us from drawing European subsidies, both in the end period and for the entire seven-year period, so we are at risk of drawing about 700 billion crowns. In view of this, the Government has set an ambitious timetable, which, as I have already mentioned, is expected by the end of May to submit a comprehensive amendment and to discuss it in the Chamber of Deputies by the end of June and, of course, within another 30 days of the referral of the Senate, as the Constitution provides, in the Senate. The timetable is set in such a way that the full effectiveness of the Act on 1 January 2015 has just been completed. I would point out here that, in order to be fully effective on 1 January 2015, partial effectiveness must be given in advance for several months in relation to the provisions relating to the Directorate-General and to the provisions to ensure the selection of State secretaries to each office which must be appointed by 1 January 2015 at the latest. Therefore, at this time, as I said, we will provide maximum legislative support. We will also provide support during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, namely on this parliamentary proposal, with the fact that I have been informed without the organisation of parliamentary work mattering to me or to the Government that perhaps 30 May should be a meeting with the two committees, which should discuss this matter, where the whole proposal is not expected to be discussed at committee level, but there would be a kind of presentation of the whole proposal, with the fact that a further meeting of committees should take place in the coming weeks so that all Members have sufficient room to assess the proposal or apply amendments. Furthermore, as we have discussed, I have been informed that there is also an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the end of June, so that the timetable, which I have emphasised, needs to be fulfilled also in relation to the European Commission, is ensured.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u27	The honourable Member wishes to ask a supplementary question. Of course, there's room for that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u28	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would also like to ask, in this context, whether, at the time the proposal is submitted to the committee, the amount of the costs that this legislation will bring will already be known and whether it will already be clear how many officials will be involved in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u29	I ask the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u30	The two questions that have been asked are related. By its resolution, the Government imposed on all the authorities to be covered by the Staff Law on the basis of the institutional competence which it was proposed to provide by the end of June information on which officials, in what number and in which grade this bill should apply, who should therefore be in service in the event that the rules under the Staff Law are already being applied today. The estimate of the number of officials is somewhere between 65 and 80,000. We will know the data precisely, or more or less precisely, at the beginning of July of this year, with the fact that, in terms of budgetary costs, the task with which a comprehensive amendment law is being prepared is that, in principle, the rollover from existing employment to the service relationship should be budgetaryly neutral, with the fact that it is obvious that it will not guarantee this entirely 100%, given that we are planning to strengthen the tariff component of salaries and to reduce issues such as contractual salaries or the totally unlimited amount of remuneration that have been applied very often. And if the remuneration rules are introduced across the board in all the offices where it is often very different today, then, of course, there is absolutely no guarantee of budgetary neutrality. It can be assumed that in the hundreds of millions, the cost of remuneration in the public administration may increase. Once again, here I refer to the fact that we will be able to calculate this after they are collected by the end of June data from the competent authorities. But that means that the cost of introducing a public service is certainly manageable and is almost negligible in order compared to the 700 billion drawdowns I have been talking about, and with the damage that we have in the long term from the non-functioning government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u31	Thank you. So that was interpelation number three. Mr Klučka now has the floor, who will turn to Minister Válková in the case of the Prison Service and the General Inspection of the Security Corps. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I am very sorry that Minister Válková is excused from today's negotiations because we have been able to resolve these issues and we have been able to explain some of the problems that I have in some context to answer her questions that have been asked in the Committee on Security on 11 April. I'll admit that I don't really want to believe that the secretary read all that before she sent the answers, because she would know one thing that's untrue, and I'm going to enlighten her right now. The Minister on the committee clearly, clearly, and we have it on the audio record, said that the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps did not do in many cases the way she should have done, that she had postponed the cases, that she had not completed the cases, and that it is probably not okay. I agree with that. I'm sure this isn't okay. So I asked her to tell me the cases, and I promised her that we would carry out this analysis in the Inspectorate-General of the Security Corps, and we would try to shed light on these matters, and if the General Inspectorate-General of the Security Corps did not work as it should, find out this fact and make amends. And I have been given the answer that I can no longer comment on the tasks of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, since this component does not fall under the management competence of the Ministry. My request is the only one. Madam Secretary, give me the cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u33	Yes, that's a very clear request. Let's see how the secretary responds. Now, then, Mrs Putnová will respond personally to Minister Chládek, who is present. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, when you came into office, you announced that you were interested in increasing the salary of teachers. It is undoubtedly an activity that is commendable, and we are also trying to support it. You even figured it out, and you said you imagined teachers would take 28 to 32 grand on average. I warned at the time that this is a rather unrealistic expectation, which will require a number of systemic measures and will result in the frustration of teachers, because they are far from this promised salary. My question, however, points to specific data. In order to be able to even quantify the demands for an increase in the budget, it is essential that we base ourselves on common data. Since there are various statistical data and there are conversions of educators and posts, I would like to ask you whether you can tell what data you are based on for the number of teachers. If you don't have it at your disposal, it'll be enough in writing. I know it's a dynamic process, so let's say 31. 12. 2013. What is the average salary of the teacher and what is the average salary of the principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u35	The Minister now has room for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam, the question is, of course, very complicated, but what I will know from now on, I will try to answer and, of course, we can also add in writing afterwards, because the data are averaged and there is a different salary in regional education on average, another for secondary schools, another for primary schools. I'm going back to the very beginning of your performance. My interest is - and I am glad that this is our common interest across the political spectrum - to increase the salaries of teachers in Czech education and non-teaching workers, because they are also very trivial. I am calculated for next year - and I will be happy if the Czech education budget is increased by 3 to 5 billion, so it is calculated that at least 1.9 billion. We're gonna need to grow performances. Growth in performance means that we are increasing the number of children in kindergartens and primary schools and, given that education is financed so-called per capita, that is to say for the number of students or pupils, so the number of funds we will have to recover from this increase. So it's 1.9 billion. Next thing you know, I'd like 1.5 billion. teachers' salaries and at least 0.5 billion. the salaries of non-teaching staff. The increase is because we have 270 thousand. employees in Czech education will be about 500 CZK on average, so it will not be so strong. The second part of your question - we draw data from statistical data P1-04. They are derived from the records of individual schools and educational establishments. We use the 2013 data and compare it with the previous year, which means 2012. The 28,000. Gross is my idea of what, in my personal opinion, the average salary of a teacher in regional education should be. So far it is CZK 26,659, but we have to look into the structure because for example the average salary of a teacher in kindergarten is 23 300, 27,000 in primary school and 28,000 in grammar school, 27,000 in secondary vocational school and 29,000 in higher vocational school. [[15.10 hours]] Of course, the numbers are moving. But we have to subtract the directors from it, because we're also based on the average salary, including the directors. If we clear it from the CEOs' salaries, we're getting somewhere at 22-23,000 gross, which, of course, is not a significant salary in basic education. I'm sure if you want some additional information, we'll certainly also document it in writing with the tables, but let's assume that the average salary really means that when one says that we ate every half of the chicken, it can really be that one has a whole and one doesn't have one. The average salary is rather a figure that is indicative, and 100% not all teachers meet the criterion that they have this salary, which we are talking about is the average in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u37	The honourable Member has an interest in asking an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u38	Thank you. I would really ask for written statistics on the number of teachers. Teachers, not part-timers. And the structure so that we can further calculate any increases. The supplementary question would consist of remuneration following the career order, because both the coalition agreement and the programming declaration contain a clear commitment that raising the salary of teachers will go hand in hand with the introduction of the career order since 2015. I was wondering if the planned increase was really due to the introduction of the career order since 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u39	Yes. The Minister has the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u40	Thank you, Mr President, only in a really short time. We also have the entire annual yearbook, where it is actually described in very detail. We can sit on it, we can discuss other matters that concern it, but the order of careers is now being completed. The national round table is working on it, and clearly it is not worth introducing a career order unless we get money for teachers' salaries. If we were in real life, in real life, and we wanted to run the career order the way it should look, we'd need 5 billion for teachers' salaries. extra. We expect that the implementation of the career order will be gradual, but if the Sovereign House decides that it will increase the Ministry of Education only to the salaries of teachers of 5 billion, I will be very happy and raise the salaries of teachers and we will have a career order in full form since 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u41	As much as the honourable Member would like to ask a question, it is no longer possible, so only off the microphone to the right of me in the bench. So now, Mr Seďa is intersecting Minister Stropnickýý with regard to the RVR's reconnaissance radar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear absent minister, I was very pleased to hear that the army has purchased an RVR reconnaissance radar sensor for the Strakonická brigade with a range of 30 km and is part of the V-SHORAD module. According to public information, the anti-aircraft missile regiment should have a total of 4 sensors that will come to the army at 356 miles. Kč. According to the Chief of Staff, this sensor is fully compatible with our NATO partners. Information on the purchase of the necessary radar sensors would be fine if there weren't a few devil's hooves. The first is that this sensor will not allow the aircraft to be identified by its own or enemy, because it does not seem to have a functional IFF device for mode 4. Therefore, it cannot even be part of the V-SHORAD module as declared. The reason for this is that it does not contain an AN/TPX-56 functional queryer because it lacks KIV-16 cryptomodules without which the queryer cannot work. Mr. Secretary, if my information is correct, then so much media-enhanced sensor is for two things. I note that these questioners are American provenience, they have been paid, but they have not been delivered. Supposedly, these cryptomodules are no longer produced and there is no replacement for them. So if this information is confirmed, an army of questioners can shove it behind their hats. The RBS-70 missile assemblies may also contain an identification device, but they have too short a reach. This is why RVR sensors have been developed and manufactured. Minister, I didn't want an answer from you here and now, but please check this information. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u43	Thank you. Mrs Havlová, interpelling to Minister Brabec on the amendment to the Act on Electrowaste.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the draft amendment to Act No. 185/2001 Coll. on Waste is currently being discussed in the House. the electronics presented by its House promoter as a mere transposition of the directive of the European Parliament. However, the proposal contains such changes which are not mentioned in the European Union directive at all and are in breach of the applicable legislation, the Constitution and the principles of competition, such as. - firstly, any retired electrical equipment collected in the Czech Republic would automatically become the property of collective systems that would not have to pay anything for their takeover to the originators. Or, secondly, to collect and process electrical waste, only those entities with which collective system operators would conclude contracts would be allowed. This would prevent the emergence of competitive collective systems that could positively affect the amount of collected recycling fees, the level of collection and the quality of recycling. The approval of changes would only benefit existing private companies, so-called collective system operators. I ask what was the reason for adding changes that were not in the EU directive to the amendment of the law. Since August 2005, when these companies have received monopoly permission from the Ministry of the Environment for their activities and from the Ministry of Finance tax relief, because they have already collected billions of crowns on recycling fees, which they set themselves. Recycling is usually self-financed. Electrowaste processors -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u45	Time, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u46	Yes, one last question. Do you know that this has already resulted in the destruction of a number of processing companies, including protected workshops, and thus the disposal of thousands of jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u47	You will, of course, have room for an additional question. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u48	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad, Madame, in the context of that, of course, I am glad that I finally got to one question today concerning my ministry. Of course, I know the comments you made, because we are overwhelmed by a number of letters from different lobby organizations, and I say this in a negative sense of the word, because of course there are a number of organizations that lobby for different interests. What you were talking about is contained, for example. in a letter sent to me by the Association of Sellers of Secondary Resources and some other entities. I would like to say that the proposal, as it is presented today, is, of course, being conducted in the Committee on the Environment and will undoubtedly be conducted in the House, merely specifying the existing provisions of the Waste Act, because the proposal de facto states today that waste electrical equipment must not be removed or purchased, for example. so-called the ransom of secondary raw materials, which is currently prohibited even by the 2001 Waste Management Decree. The transfer of waste electrical equipment directly to the processor is without prejudice to the proposal and the processors will continue to be allowed to do so. Therefore, for processors of electrical equipment the design does not bring any changes. It is a bit - I have to say, not a little, but a lot - that it happened, although it was actually illegal, that the electrical waste, especially large electrical waste, washing machines, refrigerators, etc., were in the ransom of secondary raw materials, just from which valuable things were extracted, and then the remaining waste was discarded and someone had to take care of it. Today, even within the collective system, of course, the processor has a complex obligation, and it's not good for someone to take the cherry out of it, and then the dry chip cake stays on someone else. That's the main problem today. [[15.20 hours]] But I would like to say that you are right about the fact that gross really is the transposition of European law into our Waste Act. But in this particular case, it is really a refinement of existing legislation. When it comes to job losses. We talked about it, we will, of course, conduct negotiations on it with the Association of Sellers of Secondary Resources, we will look for some ways there. But I think that there will be much more intervention in this matter - in fact, today the Senate proposal significantly limits the purchases of metals and other things to the buyers of secondary raw materials. So I would like to emphasise that the competitive environment, unlike some other collective systems, which we are also working intensively on today, is already working in this area, but it is clear that today it does not work for the association of secondary raw materials buyers precisely because in some cases - and I am not saying that in all - they have used the system to extract it valuable and leave the rest to processors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u49	Thank you. The honourable Member has an interest in asking an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u50	But this is about the monopoly and the competition. And if you're saying they made the best of it and didn't care about the rest of it, then there's something they can do to make sure they have to process everything they buy out of it. And not to deal with any monopoly of an association, and it's discriminated against by others who also want to eliminate the collection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u51	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u52	He's the monopoly in this area, believe me, and I'd be happy to give you some more information about it, perhaps. We can meet with my people on this, and he's not the monopoly you think he is. Monopol is in another area. But the collection of electrical equipment really ensures a competitive environment. These collective collection systems are currently functioning abroad, virtually. Buyers, according to the relevant law, electric waste collectors of the collection system, the overall recycling system, where both the producer and the buyer, i.e. the customer, are involved in a certain amount of being part of the system. But I say, unlike other systems within waste management in the Czech Republic, which we are currently working on, it will also be part of some of the next amendments, so in the case of electrical equipment, the monopoly really is not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u53	That concludes this interpelation. Mr Fiala withdraws his interpelation to the Minister and will therefore speak to Mr Zahradník, who again asks the Minister of the Environment, this time on the appeal of the director of the Šumava National Park.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u54	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you how you intend to dispel your concerns about the future of your department when you are conducting a reckless personnel policy in my opinion. An example is the appeal of the director of the Šumava Jiří Mánek National Park Administration. A man who not only stopped the barking calamity, but who was important in achieving a broad consensus in Šumava. This step met with disagreement among the large majority of the population living in Sumava. Jiří Mánek is able to put together various opinions and interests that apply in Šumava, whether they are the municipalities on whose cadastrals the national park lies, both the regions, the National Park and the entrepreneurs who are trying to do business in Šumava. The most significant result of this is the Šumava National Park Act, which is currently being discussed by the Senate, which approved it at first reading and which will be presented to us in the House as a Senate proposal. The only ones who did not join the consensus mentioned and who enthusiastically welcomed Jiří Mánek's appeal are environmental activists and their scientists. This can be no wonder because any agreement in Sumava prevents them from achieving their goal, which is to extend the so-called extension. Wilderness to the highest possible area of Sumava. On the contrary, these activists welcomed the appointment of Pavel Hubený to the head of the park administration. You can therefore not be surprised, Minister, that the opinion on Sumava is growing that the ANO movement headed by Mr Andrej Babiš Šumava sold environmental activists to environmental activists for giving Mr Babišův's empire peace of mind in its other activities. I therefore want to ask you, Minister, the reasons which led you to dismiss Jiří Mánek as Director of the Šumava National Park Administration, and what led you to reject the Senate Bill on the Šumava National Park, which has broad support in Šumava. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u55	Thank you. Minister, please respond to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. I welcome him because, of course, there has been a full, let's say, storm. And for me and for others, such a seed bead - there was no better expression of that particular emotion, huge emotion, and - forgive me the word - the demagogy that was unleashed around it than a picture of a little girl about seven years old from the demonstration in Upper Plana, who rubbed a banner: Brabc's bark = Babišův's profits. This doesn't look like a spontaneous Šumavák demonstration. This is what action looks like, I don't know what kind of company organized. I can think of one. But we've known each other for a while. You know that we have already talked about this and we will still be talking about it, I want to assure you in the best sense that we are really going to be talking for a while. I called off Mr. former Director Mánek for reasons - although I was receiving a whole range of information from one side or the other, and I did not, as you know, make the decision directly. While I've made a whole series of my personnel decisions quickly in the first few days, I've been thinking about this decision for quite a while. And the reasons -- and you know them, I'm here last week or this week, it's somehow mixed with me, Mr Mánek sitting for 1.5 hours still in the Chamber, and I think we broke up very correctly, and I believe he confirms it this way -- they were purely managerial. I'm probably an old man or a conservative in this, but I just think that as a high civil servant, which I consider myself and, of course, I consider Mr. Mánek to be the director of the Šumava National Park Administration, so civil servants should comply with the law. And it happened in several cases - and you know that the law was broken, whether it was cutting down on Lost or using pesticides. We lost those courts, and then there were black buildings that were bogged down. And it was said - no one knew it needed, say, permission from the construction office. Yes, he does. And I said, "How are we supposed to force visitors to the national park or citizens of this state, virtually?" require them to comply with the law when the government itself doesn't comply with it? The other reasons were different views on some management procedures. But I point out, Mr Member, and you know it well, we talked about it, the reason for which there was no need for a different view on the scope without intervention. And by that reason, believe - believe not, there was no difference of opinion about the National Park Act of Šumava, respectively. other legislative solutions. The reason was that communication with Director Mánek really didn't work. We agreed on some procedures in terms of approval of investments. He quite arbitraryly decided on some things that I am sensitive to, for example. decisions on investments of the type of Vimper castle or certain other large programmes where tens of millions of taxpayers' money would be invested. And I had a different opinion about it. [[15.30 hours]] And when I talked to the municipalities about it, the municipalities blamed me for some things, and I'd like to admit them, but they didn't blame me for the management decision. They told me: "Mr. Minister, this is your right, and we fully accept that you have made this decision and have chosen your own man. " Mr Hubený, whom I have entrusted, and you also know that, the management of the national park, so while some say that he is the greenest person in the leadership, I have had fun with the same mayors you speak to, and they have long known him and recognised him as an expert. And you said, on the one hand, Sumava, Šumavák, and on the other hand, green activists and scientists. It's not true. I have met many dozens of people in Sumava and dozens write to me and are not even environmentalists or activists, they are not even scientists, they are Šumavák who live in these villages and have a different opinion than Mr. Mayor Šubrt or other mayors, such as Mr. Mayor hůlka. But it's not that important. Trust me. I therefore respond to other colleagues who have asked the same question. And you mentioned the question -- sorry. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Maybe I'll leave it to the next question, which then concerned the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u57	If the Member wishes to ask an additional question, he now has room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u58	Mr President, Minister, just a few responses to the demonstration, which I think I have very inappropriately identified with the girl who was definitely there. There were more children. But much more, about 300 there were people, the Šumavák people, who cared about Sumava and who came voluntarily to express their opinion quite clearly. So I wouldn't want the public to say that it was some kind of forced demonstration where people were chased into. I'm sure it wasn't like that. Mánek. Of course, you'll probably be different in your opinion. That's for sure. Calling him off is your sacred right. We have the sacred right to criticize your decision, and I must say that criticism is not just a criticism of me or Šubrt, it is a criticism of a whole series of Šumavák who write to me and who have an opinion completely unambiguous and supported. I'd like to say that I'm going back to the fact that the appeal of Mánek wasn't right. And I think, unfortunately, Sumava will soon show up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u59	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u60	I'll take my time. I'll be very short. I would like to assure you, Mr Member, without any cliché, because, of course, I have also received questions from members of YES, Šumavaků, some of whom live there, that I care as much as you do to make Šumava green and not dry, as I am absurdly accused by the Šumava Charter that Babiš's companies... On the contrary, we will do everything we can to ensure that the tenders within the minitenders, so that we can help employ local people from local communities, which is the biggest problem today, with a lack of job opportunities so that the tenders are divided so that they are won primarily by small and medium-sized companies from the region. This means that Brabec called off Mánek to put another director there, because of that we expanded the area without intervention, it was all eaten by the crust, Babišův's companies came and mined the wood - don't be angry, it's completely beyond the edges. I dare say this is demagogy. And that already tells me that someone's manipulating it, because it's not like that. And you know that our proposal without interference, i.e. the land left in Sumava by spontaneous development, is very close to a proposal that you, or the design of municipalities and regions, probably support. This is simply a relatively minimalist proposal. It wasn't about Mr. Mánek's appeal. And believe me, I will watch very carefully what is happening in Sumava, what is happening in the national park, what is happening in the management of the national park, what projects are being assessed there, what projects will be there. And if there were pressures from the other side, because I want to tell you that I'm very resistant to any pressure, to the pressures of environmental activists, of course, because if it wasn't, the care plan looks different today -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u61	But you are not resistant to time, Minister. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u62	I'm sorry. From the other side, too, so believe me. I'm spending the next three days in Sumava next week, talking to the mayors, and whoever I like to talk to again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u63	Thank you. I am ending this interpelation and, please, Mr Jiří Štětina, who is intersecting Minister Chovanec. He's excused, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u64	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the daily Mladá Fronta DNES 9. 5. published an article: Expensive houses, data leaks, the Minister examines intelligence, suspicious orders and leaks of information in foreign intelligence, which caused damage to the state in the order of tens of millions of crowns, the Ministry confirmed that this is a serious problem. If the control of the management of the ÚZSI by its own control mechanisms in accordance with the Act on Financial Control is insufficient or there is no will to control, I ask that the Supreme Audit Office carry out an in-depth inspection of the purchase, reconstruction and sale of buildings that are allegedly operated by the ÚZSI and are on the sheets of ownership of the Ministry of the Interior. Already two years ago, the server introduced the current one. cz information communicated by anonymous Minister of the Interior to Kubice about the new building Prague on Paví Vrch. It was a tender for HOCHTIEF, offer, original price, increase in financial costs and doubts were raised about the usability for operational foreign intelligence. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you to explain whether this information can be confirmed or refuted. Furthermore, I ask for a statement on how anonymous was investigated, which was the first to draw attention to the inexpensive use of funds in foreign intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u65	Thank you. The next performer will be Mr Karamazov. Interpels the Minister of Válková in the matter of control in the Prison Service. Madam Secretary is also excused. [[The MP disagrees.]] I'm sorry. I missed a line. He is Minister Chládek. He is present and it is in the case of support of technical disciplines. It's all right now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u66	Dear Minister of Education, I would like to ask you about the issue of support for technical disciplines in Czech universities. It is clear, especially recently, that the unemployment rate of graduates of humanities is significantly higher than that of technical graduates. They're more of a demand. Selective support for technical fields is discussed at many levels: Czech Rectors' Conference, Higher Education Council and so on. Obviously, it's a sensitive topic. At present, unemployment rates and other factors are particularly applied in the so-called quality coefficient, which affects higher education funding, but not enough. So my question is. Are you considering direct selective and direct support for technical disciplines in Czech universities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u67	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u68	Thank you for asking. I think about supporting technical disciplines from preschool education, because the problem doesn't start in college, but the problem is somewhere much earlier, and the reason why our children don't go to technical schools is because they don't have a relationship to technology, they don't have a relationship to such things as - they used to go to workshops. Today, many schools have abolished these workshops. We have several projects dealing with this. I will start from pre-school education when we want to expand technical education from pre-school facilities in the form that is common in the world, when Lega kits, if I can name a specific company here, we have Mercury again, and thanks to these teaching programs they will get used to work and technical disciplines. At the same time, we support technical education at primary and secondary schools. It ends with the project Pospol, which supports cooperation between schools and companies, and we even support exchange cooperation between specific universities, such as CTU, and grammar schools, so that students from grammar schools can see how they are taught at universities in the technical direction, what perspective it is. Because it's the biggest problem in technical schools that they're applying to few students who are gifted for this area. [[15.40 hours]] And the biggest problem that is, is the problem of mathematics in the Czech Republic. I presented the math results today. It's the worst outcome ever. Success in the Czech language is about 97 percent, foreign language 96, but mathematics is only 75. And that was just a didactic test. And even the results have shown us that there are no basic trivial knowledge in this field. If we don't learn math properly and learn math, then it's very difficult for us to selectively support technical schools. But since I understand this as well, of course, and I suppose we understand it as well together, that it is necessary to support universities where they find employment on the labour market, so it is in our intention, but it is not only up to us, but it is also up to us to debate with the presidents of individual universities, with the fact that today, for example, I was on one of the projects of the Czech Technical University, which is from the VaVpI Operational Programme, and here are gradual steps in which we support the technical fields. This means we are going there with more European money, we are going there with more budget resources as such, but a cardinal problem, which means a relationship to technical disciplines, we have to deal with it before college. But yes, we expect to support these types of schools in this positive form, but we do not want to do so at the expense of, for example, Charles University.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u69	The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I completely agree that technical education needs to be promoted since pre-school age. I also agree with what you said about mathematics, and I very much agree with that. Nevertheless, I would return to college grounds after all. So I would ask more specifically whether, for example, the different coefficients for different disciplines, which is already today, but it is quite equivalent whether you want to participate directly or to promote technical disciplines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u71	The Minister has two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u72	On this issue, we now have a working group that prepares a new university law, and, of course, a way of financing is part of it. Of course, many schools will talk about wanting to increase this coefficient. All the colleges are talking about it, that they need it. But that is why we wanted to bring representatives of the Czech Rectors and Council of universities into the debate. We adjust the system so, and it is not only in the direction of technical disciplines, but on the basis of an analysis of the needs of the labour market and its long-term prediction, we want to adapt the financing of the whole system of Czech education, including universities. The analysis is already done and on the basis of this analysis we will, and we will put it on the table for discussion, we will want the budget to be increased where the graduates of these universities will find employment in the labour market. This, of course, also applies to technical disciplines. I do not want to point out that we will only support these fields, because many and humanities have employment in the labour market, so I deliberately talk about using an analysis of the needs of the labour market, which will clearly tell us the applicability of the graduates of these universities, because there really must be an end to the time when someone is graduating from an unnamed university and is going immediately to retrain, because he will not find work with the graduate. So if that's the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u73	Yes, that concludes this interpelation, and now there is room for interpellation to Minister Válková, but it will be from Mr Bezecný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u74	Mr President, Minister, ministers, colleagues, and colleagues, I originally had what I would now interpel, prepared as a question at the committee meeting on 6 May. In the end, the committee didn't even run, the program wasn't approved. So I've been waiting for an interpellation. Madam Secretary isn't here, but since I'm patient, I'll wait for a written answer. Interpelation concerns the inspection carried out on the Prison Service from 3 March to 1 April this year. It was a thematic public inspection of the performance of the file service and the administration of documents. Alleged findings from this check have become part of the grounds for appeal by the Director General of the Prison Service. The appeal took place on 4 April 2014. It is to be considered that the final report from this inspection was issued on 29 April 2014, i.e. at the time when the deadline for the submission of objections against the audited findings by the Prison Service expired. According to the said final report, the prison service did not take advantage of the possibility of submitting such objections, and I ask whether this was indeed the case. More important, however, is the question under which law the control was ordered and how it was carried out. The prison service of the Czech Republic is a public document producer within the meaning of the Act on Archiving and File Service and should therefore carry out control at the Archiving and File Services department of the Ministry of the Interior or national archive. [[Attention on time.]] What was the reason to carry out this control under Law No. 255/2012 Coll., Control Rules, respectively. Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on Financial Control? The question is whether such a check was common in the past, whether checks were carried out in the past under the Archiving and File Service Act and with what result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u75	Thank you, too, and we'll continue with our next interview. This is the interpellation of Mr Kučera to Minister Prachař, who is present. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u76	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I was terrified to watch the director of the Czech Railways ride in the Archduke D'Este's salon car with his badge pinned on by totalitarian communist North Korea. Everything was documented by Czech TV cameras. I would like to ask how it is possible that a civil servant wears even one second of symbols that promote a totalitarian regime of the Stalinist type. The more I was surprised by the reaction of the spokesperson of České dráhy, who explained that the director of České dráhy, a civil servant, had the badge of Stalinist North Korea pinned on the previous event he proudly carried it to. I want to ask you, Minister: What conclusions did you draw from the scandalous behaviour of the Director of the Czech Railways? This behaviour of a civil servant cannot be overcome only by the austere and, moreover, by a strange statement from the press secretary. Unfortunately, we already have to perceive it in the context of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' observations on the support of communist China and its occupation of Tibet, in connection with the Minister of Defence's observations on the refusal of NATO troops to stay in the Czech Republic and other speeches of the Czech Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u77	The Minister now has the opportunity to answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u78	Mr President, honourable Member, in this interview I would like to send you a written reply. I learned about it today and was supposed to be a question of the personnel management of České dráhy. Of course, I learned about this matter from the press, I was not in North Korea, and I will allow myself to send you a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u79	However, the Member wishes to ask an additional question and has the right under the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u80	So if there is a written answer, I would add that the answer should be extended. What do you think would happen to the director of the Czechoslovak Railways in 1936, if he had pinned the Nazi German swastika on his lapel and the spokesperson still apologized for for forgetting to take it off for another event?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u81	The Minister wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u82	Mr President, honourable Member, I would not really like to have a debate at the level of the Chamber of Deputies, which symbol is of greater or less value. It's not pleasant for me. I will send you a pleasant reply and, of course, I will discuss it in detail with the Director General of České dráhy, who led him to such an act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u83	Thank you, and please, Mrs Aulická, to give an interview to the Minister of Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're taking my last name away! Madam Secretary, in connection with the interpelations of my colleague Josef Šenfeld and his warning in April of this year, I present this interpelation to you. Your colleague pointed out to you another, according to him, non-economic requirement for the award of a small-scale public contract called DG OL - acquisition of detection frames 2014 contracting authority Prison Services of the Czech Republic with its registered office Court 1672/1a, Prague 4. The required parameters of the contracting authority included a distinction between the location of objects according to at least 30 detection zones. In my opinion, this specific parameter absurdly excluded the contracting entity of the device with 20 detection zones. The evaluation of tenders was to take place on 11 April 2014, but on the contracting authority's profile I only learned about the progress of the procurement procedure the fact that the contract was awarded, I can put the system number at my disposal. However, the protocol from the opening and evaluation of tenders, including the contract concluded, was not concluded. Madam Secretary, would it be possible to publish those documents additionally on the contracting authority's profile? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u85	Thank you. If you felt I'd knocked your last name out, I'm sorry, but I read it the way it says. [[Messenger. - It's okay.]] And it's right here. So I apologize for any complications, but I tried to make it sound right. Now, then, Mrs Semelová - an interview for Vice Prime Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u86	Dear Vice Prime Minister, my intervention concerns the preparation of the State budget for 2015 in relation to the field of education. The information provided by the media is highly contradictory and has raised the wave of inevitability for both education workers and school unions. First, we learned that education salaries are to be frozen. On Wednesday, it was said that this information was not true and that the Ministry of Finance was counting on wage increases by 1%. Then clarify that you plan to increase the education budget by 83 million for next year. Kč. But even then, protests will not be silent, and I do not blame it at all. In view of the long-term underfinancing of the education sector, this amount is completely inadequate. It is enough to mention the low salaries of teachers, which are deeply below the average salaries of other university-educated employees of the Czech Republic, the salaries of non-teaching school workers - they take on average 14.5 thousand. Gross, missing assistants in schools for disabled pupils, undercapacity of kindergartens, lack of funding for equipment, aids and textbooks used for 14 years. Just an increase in the number of pupils due to demographic developments will require 1.9 billion. Kč. For these reasons, I consider the requirement to increase the budget to 3-5 billion. CZK for a perfectly valid one. After all, the need for a substantial increase in funding for education has been taken up by the current government as well in a government statement. It stressed that - I quote: education is a fundamental pillar of government policy, it will support pre-school education, it will seek to raise funds for the wages of pedagogical and non-teaching workers and for the modernisation of schools. [[Chairman of the PSP J. Hamáček: Time, colleague!]] Let me ask you three questions: 1. What amount do you expect for the Education Department in the proposal? 2. Will you be discussing an increase in the amount of salaries in education with the education unions? 3. Is the government's statement to your coalition still valid, in which one of the priorities you refer to is the area of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u87	Thank you, too. Mr Korte will be the next interviewer, on behalf of Minister Helena Válková, who is excused. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u88	Madam absent Minister, on 8 April 2014, the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Use of Wires, etc., long name, devoted itself to fulfilling the obligation under Section 88 of the Criminal Code, namely that the institution which terminates the proceedings is obliged to inform the person on whom the wire was ordered that it has been wired. In our case, in the case of your department, they are prosecutors and courts. The representatives of the Ministry who have been delegated to you at the Commission's meeting have informed the Commission that the Ministry does not register these cases. This means that it does not check whether this obligation is fulfilled. Therefore, since I have reason to believe that this obligation is being circumvented, ignored, or violated, we have asked for data and we have adopted a resolution to that effect with a date agreed by the representatives of the Commission to deliver the data by the end of June 2013. Last week, however, you wrote me a rather arrogant letter telling me that he didn't have the data, and I therefore ask the questions you were supposed to answer: 1. How many people did this wiretapping obligation apply in 2013? 2. How many of them have been informed? 3. How much hasn't been informed, and why? To conclude, if you weren't arrogant, you had until the end of June to respond. In this way, you have 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u89	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you, Mr Korte. His interview will be answered in writing, unfortunately, thanks to the absence of the Minister. And we are going to deal with another interpelling, and it is the interpelling of Mrs Nina Nováková to the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u90	Dear absent minister, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention concerns long-awaited educational standards for primary school education. Some standards have been in force since September 2013. This concerns Czech language and literature, mathematics and its applications, English language, French language and German language. It turns out that the introduction of standards brings no problems to school education programs, directors or teachers. Among other things, it recommended the introduction of the OECD report in 2012. So I would like to ask Minister Chládek how the work on the standards of other educational areas continues. Why do I like standards so much? Because I think they are a good guide not only for teaching but also for pupils and their legal representatives. Since these are minimum target education requirements, but they are bindingly formulated in the framework education programme, these standards specify the content of some expected results and set, once again, a minimum level. We know - certainly also the Minister - that although we have been working with school education programmes and the framework education programme for many years now, our public does not quite agree with thinking about the results of the educational and educational process in schools in the so-called model. competences. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time, madam!]] Few people have a more specific idea of what it really means and what it's actually hiding underneath. That is why I believe that standards that actually set a minimum from which it is not possible to retreat can also help pupils who often experience a sense of failure and this clearly defined and achievable objective can be motivated. Since the standards need to be implemented in the form of measures in the framework education programmes, I would like to ask the Minister whether schools can expect the standards of other subjects of education to come into force in the following school year, i.e. 2014/2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u91	Thank you, Madame. The good news is that the Minister is present and has not fled from you, Madame, and he will be happy to answer your interpelation. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The answer will be simple: Yes, they can. We are still working on standards, and it is probably not worth repeating what the honourable Member said, because I totally agree with that. Since the dislodged system went from the strict curriculum to the framework education programmes and not all school education programs did the same, standards should give a certain return to some, I don't want to say unity, but to a certain standard, which would be four and a half thousand e.g. elementary schools were to be administered throughout Czech education plus minus the same. The standard you mentioned - we are now working on a proposal for languages such as Spanish, Italian, Russian, this should be done in June. The expert discussion will take place from June to September, then we prepare the approval of other subjects and in the final we want standards for all educational fields and we plan to complete these standards by September 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u93	Sorry, madam, I'm still in charge here. Thank you. Does the honourable Member wish a supplementary question? Apparently, yes. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, but if I understand it correctly, it has actually only continued to extend in the area of languages, which is, of course, easier, because there is a model of English, French, German and we continue, but not since next year. So from next year. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u95	Thank you, Madame, for the supplementary question. I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u96	Yes, in addition to languages, it is still mathematics and the Czech language, so it is not just foreign languages, and we will continue the educational fields of others. If I have the correct information from the Office, the standards of other educational disciplines should come into force in September 2015, they should have a recommended character.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u97	I thank both the Minister and the Member for the questions. With another interview, 18. I will ask Mr. Jan Farský, Mr. René Číp will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u98	Mr President, honourable members of the Government, Madam Minister, in an article in the Economic Newspaper on 6 May 2014, information on changes to the Public Procurement Act appeared. At first, I thought it was a misunderstanding, but unfortunately, after studying material intent, I can already see that this is really planned. I would argue that if the planned changes were to become a reality, the Public Procurement Act would become a standard that would only harass the decent and not interfere with thieves. As a basic recipe for simplifying and accelerating public procurement, it is to increase the possible multi-work on the contract from 20 per cent to 50 per cent of the original price. This is a completely senseless and absurd pro-corruption measure supporting a sklendrian in investing public funds. Why do I think that? Any multi-work is created in the absolute majority of cases due to a poor quality project and the project is not only the basis of a well-managed construction but also the necessary basis for each contract. The contracting authority must know exactly what it wants and specify this, because only with quality project documentation can it receive a quality offer for implementation. The limit of 20 per cent is quite sufficient in the case of a well-finished project, and I would like to say that from the position of Mayor of Semil, which I have been in office for eight years. Increasing the limit for multi-work up to 50 percent is an adjustment with enormous corruption potential and will lead to an incredible waste. I would like to ask the Minister if he really considers this measure to be what will ensure effective management of public funds and which will ensure high-quality investment. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u99	I thank the Member and the Minister for Regional Development, Věra Jourová, for her reply. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u100	Mr President, colleagues, my colleague, of course the information in the Hospodářské noviny was preliminary. This was information on the fact that we are actually preparing a new law on the basis of a new directive, which allows more work up to 50 per cent, repeatedly if it is found during the implementation of the project that there are objective reasons for increasing the volume. To explain to you the stage at which we are preparing the law and the reasons for this: We have prepared a new directive, which has already been published in the Journal, some basic principles or thesis that contain directives from which we can deviate only by tightening up. This means that we are now based on the diction of the directive, which is actually 50 percent there, and we are conducting a debate within the technical college and working group and a rather broad forum of various experts on whether the Czech nation can withstand such a degree of trust and whether we can leave this space to Czech contracting entities or whether we should tighten up from the very beginning. So this debate is still going on. We have some questions for the new law, which should be effective from January 2016, and on these days, until next week, an analysis of the effects of the law, including the effects on possible corruption, is ongoing. So things aren't done, publications in Hospodářské noviny, and then a sharp reaction in the Mladá fronta was premature, because we are still doing analyses. As long as I have a moment of time, I would like to say that this is an absolutely fundamental standard, which is strongly criticised because it has to run through 600 billion a year, and yet we know that this regulation as a procedural standard, which causes a lot of error rate by how complicated it is, virtually. As it anticipates complicated procurement, it also costs us a lot of money every year if I just mention European funds, where it is the errors in the award that have not caused corruption at all, but simply the complexity that then leads the contracting authority to error rate, where we can now figure out how much it costs us. So it's a basic procedural standard. When we work on a new law, which will be preceded by a technical amendment to the existing law, we will move in two basic restrictions, respectively. principles or goals. On the one hand, the amendment must ensure transparency and non-discrimination of the award. That's where I think it's gonna help to run with other legislative news, like, for example. register of contracts. That's what I think are things that have to go hand in hand. On the other hand, we need to achieve a really fundamental simplification of the application of the standard, because this really requires solutions and statistics correspond to that. So we are moving in these two poles and we have a college that is currently working on a new law, very widely conceived, there are contracting entities, suppliers, there are all the key anti-corruption initiatives, there are representatives of ministries dealing with legislation. So I believe that we will be able to prepare the law to the right degree in the implementation of transparency and anti-corruption measures and at the same time to allow the law to enter more easily, more flexible and faster. The speed factor, of course, is also very important here. Finally, I must very much look back on critics who say that we are preparing a standard that will not prevent corruption. Of course, the Procurement Act is one of those parts of the legislation to restrict corruption, but we must say our personal opinion that the law is not self-savory and that, in the interests of limiting corruption, we must not completely encrypt and complicate the award so that we lose it. [[16.10 hours]] Personally, I regret that we cannot do a cost-benefit analysis and calculate the amount of corruption prevented in financial terms and the amount of money that we are, for example. They have lost by paying penalties for entry errors or simply failing to enter, leaving unspent money in Brussels. So we are moving within these limits, and I believe that even in the House, when the amendment or the new law comes here, we will be witnessing fundamental debates about, among other things, the national nature and the degree of trust that we can afford in the Czech Republic. Personally, I believe that legislation is to be tailor-made in good faith to those who are decent and not to bother because there is a group of people here who abuse those who really want to enter honestly and want to bear the very right demands for transparency, with reference to the register of contracts. [[Time warning]] I think we've got a good catch on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u101	I have seen the joy in the eyes of the Member, but I am asking if he wants an additional question. He doesn't, so it was real joy. I thank the Minister and the Member. Another duly signed up is Mr René Číp. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Šidlo will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u102	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you in the case of the express road I/11, specifically in its section on the bypass of the city district of Ostrava-Poruba. This communication is crucial for this part of Ostrava and affects about 90,000 of its inhabitants. Until its completion, communication is constantly overloaded and the environmental impact on the territory and on reducing the quality of life of its inhabitants is adversely affected. We are learning a lot of different information from the media today, and many of us would be interested in the current real state of affairs. They have been waiting for this construction in Poruba for many years. The preservation of its construction by Minister Bárta was considerably delayed. It would also be very interesting to inform citizens about the costs that the preservation of the building required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u103	I thank the Member and the Minister of Transport, Mr Antonín Prachař, for his reply. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u104	Mr President, honourable Member, the construction of the I/11 road, extended to the border of Opava County, is under way. It is one of the sections on the link between Ostrava and Opava, which passes through the capacity of a four-track arrangement. The basic categories of this road are S22,5/100. This means 22.5 meters is the width of the crown of the road and 100 is the estimated speed. The length is 6,7 km and the price according to the documentation is 20-45 billion. The planned startup is scheduled for the eighth month of 2015. That's basic data. And now for your question. Problems: There is no building permit for about 400 meters of road in the cadastral territory of Poruba in Ostrava. The reason is the unfinished property settlement. The owner of the expropriated land has brought an action before the Regional Court in Ostrava against expropriation, where he does not agree with the amount of compensation as well as the price of the expert opinion. Without the section in question, the construction cannot be put into operation. Without an expert opinion, the land cannot be expropriated at all. If the problem is not resolved within three months, the expected operational date in the eighth month of 2015 will not be met. The Regional Court first requested the opinion of the Supreme Court in Olomouc on the issue of the expert opinion. The Supreme Court hasn't decided yet. Only then will the Regional Court in Ostrava handle this. Only on the basis of its final judgment can the Regional Authority in Ostrava conduct construction proceedings for the remaining part of the construction. There will certainly be a shift in the date of the operation of the construction in question. In the part of the construction where the property settlement has already been completed, the owners asked for a material burden of walking and driving through the property of the building. Unfortunately, the cadastral office is unconscious. The Road and Motorway Directorate has written down these material burdens. The Road and Motorway Directorate has asked the cadastral to correct the error, and since it is a material burden for eleven different persons, it will be a time-consuming matter. The Road and Motorway Directorate has prepared several options in order to resolve the situation quickly. The above-mentioned request for a cadastral office to correct an error of entry in the cadastral, but here it is possible to assume that an appeal is lodged justified on a material burden, because they are part of and are also opponents of this construction. [[unintelligible]] The effort to agree with the beneficiaries on a material burden, and since it is an objector of the construction, the agreement is probably not likely. The third most viable option is to ensure the right to walk and drive by building a footbridge in the locality. This footbridge was already in the project and is a territorial decision for it. Since there was no settlement of land for the footbridge due to the resistance of landowners affected by the construction of the footbridge, the footbridge was therefore launched. Now the Road and Motorway Directorate proposes a repaired solution to the footbridge so that it does not interfere with the opponents' land. The estimated price is 8 million, the price of access communication to the said footbridge 2.5 million. So, finally, I want to say that there will certainly be a shift in the date of the construction's operation, and the specific length of the shift depends on the speed of solving both the problems mentioned, that is, the legal proceedings and the issue of building a footbridge. The financing of the construction was provided from national sources and we expect subsequent funding from the reimbursement of the Operational Programme 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u105	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. [[No.]] I thank both the Minister and the Member. We will proceed to another 20th interpellation, which will be presented by Mr Karel Šidlo to the absent Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický, Mr. Václav Horáček will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u106	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, when discussing press 57 at first reading, the information in your final words was that there was a calculation of the costs of removing ammunition from the ground of the military training area of Brdy, the amount of which I did not find in the explanatory report submitted by the bill. Brdy's military retreat has served the army and soldiers of various armies for more than 90 years. In addition to our soldiers, there were also trained Němec, Rus or members of the armies of the Warsaw Treaty and later NATO. Everyone in the area has left a large amount of ammo, which is largely still functional and can endanger people's health and lives. This unexploded ammunition is not only found on the target areas that are literally infested with it, but also in other parts of the escape. Even along roads and forest roads. This is also reported by articles in the local press, last in the Příbram daily on Monday 17 March 2014, which regularly informs about the findings of the lost ammunition. The territory of Brdy's military retreat is not ready to be opened to the public. Future visitors are in imminent danger if they come across this ammunition and manipulate it unprofessionally. Therefore, it is necessary to carry out its thorough cleaning before leaving this space by the army. Now let me ask you two questions. What is the amount of the cost to the army to clear the military training area of Brdy from the ammunition? Second - what will be the timetable for its implementation? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u107	I thank the honourable Member, unfortunately he will not find out today, only from the written answer, as he himself indicated. I will therefore ask Mr Václav Horáček for an interview with the same minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Šidlo will be ready again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just hope the Minister isn't investigating a tough detective case somewhere, so I hope he can answer me in writing. But I'm glad there's Tonda Seďa or Václav Klučka, who really cares about the military and defense. Now, let's ask you a question. Dear absent minister, on 19 March 2014, I asked you in writing for a brief meeting on the matter of helping one of those who fought for our country in several countries of the world and defended on our behalf democracy and the lives of local people. I understand that you have a lot of work to do, but I think that the priority of every Minister of Defence should also be veterans and care for them. As the state you represent here in this capacity, I expect you to prove to them by a proactive approach that we appreciate their commitment, that we appreciate them. Unfortunately, I haven't received any answers from you in two months. I see this not as an uninterested question from one of our opponents, but unfortunately - and I am truly sorry - above all as a lack of interest in the problem of one of our veterans, to whom our army did not behave properly, and now you are turning your back on him. [[16.20 hours]] The dogmint master Martin Nývlt became a victim, with whom the Czech army did not act correctly, which the court also acknowledged in the dispute. Unfortunately, he was a veteran mastermind. Instead, thanks to bureaucracy and disinterest on the part of the Army of the Czech Republic and many of its mistakes, after six missions in Iraq, Kosovo, Bosnia and Afghanistan and after 20 years of service, many more than many of those who have never left the security of offices in Prague deserved the right to be retired. Moreover, the negotiations of the Army of the Czech Republic meant a major personal crisis for Nývlta. Thus, it has become not only a cause for loss of pensionable but also for many personal complications. Yet he has not yet received an apology or correction. I believed it was possible to help him. One decision by the Secretary of Defense would be enough to show interest in the problem of one of yours, actually our soldiers. I believed that I wrote to you in my letter from early March 2014 that together we can correct the mistake that the Army of the Czech Republic made and send a clear message not only to all other veterans who defend the interests of freedom and democracy around the world, but also to the general public. Unfortunately, the opposite has become true. We have a hero here who put his own life on missions where we sent him, but suddenly no one knows him or his problem. It's sad. I still believe that Sergeant Nývlta was wronged, and that's why he lost his pension. I ask you how you will stand up to this, how you will act, and thank you for your written answer. I ask for a logical answer - as my colleague Vácha said, so even a 13-year-old child can understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u109	Thank you. I hope the Minister will give you such an answer, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Karel Šidl, Mr Stanislav Polčák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u110	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, a letter from the Bavarian Minister of Interior, Construction and Transport Joachim Hermann was sent to you about three months ago, which included, in addition to congratulations on your appointment, a call for cooperation in the field of transport between the Free State of Bavaria and the Czech Republic. The letter seeks to build on the joint activities of the transnational construction of transport routes, which contains a common communiqué after visiting the Bavarian Prime Minister in Prague on 20 December 2010. Specifically, it is the axis of B85, B20 as a input to the border crossing Furth im Wald - Folmava, which is the second most important crossing between Bavaria and the Czech Republic. The traffic load is about 10,000 vehicles a day, of which 1,200 trucks. The three-way section between Cham and Furth im Wald was operational on the Bavarian side in 2013 and also bypass Furth im Wald. On the Czech side is the continuation of the road 1/26, where there is neither the capacity of the route, unfortunately it is not included in the priorities of the Ministry of Transport. Similarly, the situation in railway infrastructure is developing. On the German side the capacity and reconstruction of railway lines became a priority and on the Czech side there are no steps towards the development of our railway road between Česká Kubice and Plzeň as part of the European corridor Donau-Moldau-Bahn. Now let me ask you some questions. Minister, will there be communication from your side with the Minister of Interior, Construction and Transport of the Free State of Bavaria? Will the capacity of the road 1/26 be included in the sectoral strategy of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic? And last: How will the preparation and implementation of the railway speed corridor between Česká Kubice and Pilsen continue, which is part of the Donau-Moldau-Bahn project. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u111	I thank the honourable Member for his question. I'll ask the Minister of Transport for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u112	Mr President, honourable Member, on your first question. I have become familiar with the request of the Bavarian Minister of Interior, Construction and Transport for his application for cooperation in the field of transport. You're right, I was one of the first to receive a congratulations letter after taking up office, and I'm not avoiding any meetings. Unfortunately, both the busyness of the Minister of the Free State of Bavaria and mine have not yet taken place. It was planned about 14 days ago, but I was here in the Chamber of Deputies, I apologized to the Minister and we will look for a mutual term that will suit both sides. It is not possible that I could meet with the Minister of Bavaria on my journey next week, when I will be with the other ministers of the European Union at a meeting in Leipzig. As for your second question, road 1/26 Stankov, bypass. Transport sector strategies as a priority project for short-term horizon included construction 1/26 Staňkov, bypass, public contract with estimated value of construction costs 276 million was announced by the Road and Motorway Directorate of the Czech Republic 8. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5. the time limit for the submission of tenders shall expire. This is a sublime construction, so it was not approved by the Czech Government and we assume that if procedural matters do not occur, appeal and other standards in the framework of the competitive fight of construction companies, its evaluation and launch sometime in autumn 2014. Road 1/26 has been evaluated as important within the transport sector strategy, although it is necessary to perceive the primarily completed D1 motorway as the main link to Bavaria. The amount of funding for the implementation of first-class roads outside the TNT network generally and from the longer-term financial perspective is considerably limited. We cannot use European funds for this, but we can only take it from national sources. National resources are primarily used to co-finance drawing from the OPD or from the OPD 2. Moreover, the readiness of individual other measures within the framework of the road modernisation plan does not allow the start of further constructions in the short term. This sector strategy, which we regularly work with, is expected to be the first update in the third month of 2016 after the end of the current OPD for the period 2007 to 2013 and will continuously assess the needs and financial possibilities for the implementation of individual buildings. The preparation continues at the construction of the 1/26 bypass of Babylon. In the most problematic section at Pilsen, which has been unsolved in the long term, we started processing a technical and economic study on the section Nýřany, an off-level crossroad with the D5 Stod motorway, which will start the preparation of the construction, which will in the future create bypasses of the four municipalities Lína, Zbůch, Chotěšov and Stod - which are now the most burdened by transport and are closest to Pilsen. On your question of modernization of the railway connection Plzeň - Domažlice - Česká Kubice -Mnichov. Currently, a feasibility study is being completed, the results of which are positive from the economic efficiency point of view, unlike many previously developed studies with a proposal for generous solutions which in the past have not been justified from the point of view of the financial resources invested. The variants examined consist in improving the parameters of this railway combination by combining measures of the type of new buildings and optimization measures of current practice. It is expected to build an old-fashioned exit from Pilsen. The aim is to shorten driving times, which will gradually enable the setting of a more efficient operational concept than at present. From the short term, we will seek an agreement with the Bavarian party on the two-hour course of the Prague-Munich express against today's four-hour tactic after the completion of the construction of the third corridor Rokycany-Pilsen and the completion of the main building junction Pilsen, which is now being implemented. This construction is part of TNT and is a prerequisite for its financing from the Operational Programme Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u113	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u114	Thank you for the floor. Not so much a follow-up question as a reminder of one thing. I was trying to draw your attention to one crucial thing in the interpellation, Minister. I understand that national funds will not be enough to talk about the entire capacity of the 1/26 road in real time, but on the other hand I see a great danger of what will happen directly at the state border, respectively. in those uncapacityed sections. We're talking about the Babylon bypass. You said yourself that it is only at the level of any study, virtually. preparation. I think that these are all sections that will be severely marked by the mode of transport, which will take place from the German side after the inputs that I was talking about, whether it is the road of first class 85 or the road 20. As for the railway, I would very much like you to use the meeting with the Minister of Transport of Bavaria to talk about the Donau-Moldau-Bahn project, because the railway is certainly important in relation to regional transport, not just to the international TNT.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u115	I beg the Minister if he's interested in a follow-up answer. He doesn't. With further intervention, please, Mr Stanislav Polčák, who will interpel the Minister Richard Brabec. Mrs Semelová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to return to the subject that has already been raised here and perhaps will still be heard if I have seen the list of other performers, and this concerns the appeal of the director of the Šumava National Park Administration. I am not satisfied with what the Minister said about the interpelling of Mr Zahradník, and I think it would be appropriate to deal more explicitly with this problem, because the personnel earthquake that took place at various offices after the entry of the new coalition government has, in some cases, taken a certain toll on people whose quality of work has not given any cause for such a measure in my opinion. I am unable to assess whether this category belonged to the former director of the Šumava Jiří Mánek National Park Administration, but apparently many people who demonstrated against his appeal even a few days ago. I don't think this demonstration can be dropped the way the Minister did here. I'm not going to stand on the other side, I'd just like to draw attention to one important aspect of Mánkův's case. His appeal was not, according to my firm conviction, clear and convincingly explained. In the media, as a justification for this step, there has been a mention that you see each other differently in the management of the territory. That's what I'm quoting. However, such an inspecific explanation does not seem sufficient to me, and it may raise legitimate doubts in the public about the real motives of your actions, the more so than that I know from the mayors of the Šumava communities - I was with them last week - that they were very satisfied with Mr. Mánek's work and attitude. They saw him as a man in their place. Minister, for the above reasons, I believe that you really owe the public a more extensive and convincing justification for this personnel step, which may have significant consequences for the future of Šumava National Park. Therefore, I beg you to give the explanation at least additionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u117	I thank the honourable Member and I ask the Minister for his reply. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u118	Dear Member, I have said the reasons here and I will say them again. Mr. Mánek did not respect the law in some of his decisions. That's a pretty crucial reason for me to appeal. I'll do it again. It was some decisions in terms of felling in the first zone, which the court subsequently assessed as illegal by its judgment, it was the use of pesticides, against which Czech environmental inspection protested, once again the administration of the national park lost it. It was several decisions on black buildings within the national park, again against the law. Today, by coincidence, there was a meeting of the board within the framework of the Environment Operational Programme, where it was announced that in several cases the project of the National Park of Šumava was rejected because it simply did not fulfil all the requirements. We differed, yes, you're right, even in some strategic investment issues. So I think there's been quite a lot of reasons. And believe me, I'm not the axeman type. When I ran a pretty much the same big firm as the Ministry today, and every time I made personnel changes, I had these things very much thought about. I have thought about it in this case, too, and what has been unleashed around it, you are right - Mr.Mánek's former director had good relations with the municipalities, with some municipalities, not with everyone, but perhaps the relations with the Bavarian Forest National Park, with which it completely ceased to communicate, ceased to communicate in some aspects as well as with other organisations. We are in danger of infringement of the European Commission in terms of certain procedures within the Šumava National Park. I reject the claim that the welfare of the National Park of Sumava and Sumava as such is equal to one person. Believe me, it's not like that. And it can undoubtedly be done in the coming months. I commissioned a man there who has been a very successful director of the Protected Landscape Region of Šumava for 20 years, so I traded Šumavák for Šumavák and there is no chaos in Šumava. It's a played game of a certain group of people. That group of people is very attached to the ODS. Actually, Mr. Mánek was a member of the ODS, but believe me, it wasn't an ideology of that thing. I also have other members of the ODS and other political parties who are in various departmental organizations, and I will never deal with it and I will not. Trust me. That means this doesn't matter. koneckonců all, you can read from my CV that I co-founded the ODS in 1991 or was also one of the members. That means there's no reason for this, even though maybe someone uses it that way. The error was really managerial, and we had fundamentally different views on things that I consider essential in terms of loyalty to leadership. And I dare say that I have the responsibility as Minister for all of my resort organizations, I carry it for the national park, and then I need people to trust again. Mr. Mánek and I have said that we will keep some agreements very correctly, we have said some things to each other. We're re-checking some projects now. I promised him, and he promised me we wouldn't shoot at each other in the media. That's why I may not have said some things completely hard in the paper because Mr. Mánek and I agreed that we would just accept that it was my management decision. And he said, "Please, that's the way it was, Minister, let's take it, I don't want us to talk through the papers, so you can tell what was behind it." I promised him, and I kept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u119	Thank you, Minister. I will ask Mr Polčák for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u120	Thank you, Minister, for this relatively concrete expression and illumination of the reasons. It really didn't sound like that in the media. However, one sentence that you said here, I can contradict you now. You said Mr. Mánek didn't cooperate with the Bavarian counterparts, and I have the exact opposite information. After Mr Mánek's appeal, for example, there has been an abolition of the precisely joint exercise on matters of preparation for an emergency situation precisely because this partner is missing. The Bavarian party has called off this joint exercise just in the past days and it is causing quite a lot of trouble because various components have been involved. Therefore, I do not know who is specifically telling you what to do in these matters, but perhaps this is one of the reasons which, in my opinion, is not true, at least this is how I was informed of it by the mayors I met. Secondly, it must be said that the actions that should lead to the removal of the highest management should, in my view, also be consulted with local partners. It's not just about your trust in leadership, it's about those people working in certain relationships in a certain area. So that's where you should, I think, consult, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u121	Thank you. I ask for an additional reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u122	From the point of view of the cooperation - believe that I have information directly from the director of the Bavarian Forest National Park, because my Deputy Dolejský is communicating with him, who was visiting there recently in the Bavarian Forest, and this is what they were talking about. I assume that the cancellation or not, I am sure that the cancellation of this action was related to the fact that a new director was now waiting for it, and we will undoubtedly follow it up. I'm actually pretty sure that's how it went down. [[16.40 hours]] It is no coincidence that Šumava National Park does not have as the only national park of the Czech Republic - we have a total of four - international cooperation as others have, Czech-Polish or Czech-Austrian, very good e.g. for combined patrols, joint actions, etc. The only park that doesn't have this with the Němec is the Šumava National Park because it didn't make it. And it was really personal, too. Even though I'm not saying that it was all behind Mr. Mánek, she wasn't a big deal at all before. But it certainly hasn't developed. And I think that's a shame, because it is Šumava National Park and the Bavarian Forest National Park that are really very close partners and the Czech-German connection, we want to get the Czech-German cooperation going very intensively.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u123	I thank the Minister for his clear, concrete answer, and I thank the honourable Member. Now, please, Mrs Marta Semelová, who would like to know something about preventive examinations. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u124	Thank you. Dear Minister, you recently published your intention to renew preventive medical examinations at primary schools, which should be intended for all school children. According to your words, you want to contribute to improving the health of children, which is certainly commendable. After all, doctors and teachers support this. I would remind you that there was a common practice in schools and medical preventive examinations took place twice a year. Kids went to the dentist twice a year as well. The dentist's office was either right in the schools or in the neighborhood where the entire classes always went. Both are special things today. Rather, it is an exclusive matter for parents, and unfortunately, as is known from some of the surveys in the schools, children who take preventive examinations are extremely scanty. It's even worse with a dentist visit, where a number of school-age children don't come at all, and the condition of their teeth is, as the dentists would certainly confirm, but also teachers, alarming. By the way, the fact that in many places it is even difficult to get a dentist for children is also signed. For these reasons, I consider the proposal justified. I would therefore like to ask, in this context, how the system should work. Furthermore, if you have already taken concrete steps to implement this project, what is the specific deadline for launching the project and whether you are considering renewing regular dental examinations at primary schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u125	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. I will ask the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek for his answer whether our children will be viewed preventively.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Indeed, honourable Members, there will be a significant factor that will play a very important role, and this is a different legislation than that which was before, when really preventive examinations were of particular importance. So far I have dealt with the Czech Medical Chamber and also with dentists and we have found it really necessary to create conditions for preventive examinations at Czech schools. In the meantime, we are looking for a way, it is in the form of a plan, given that current legislation is not set for us to give it in some way mandatory. But one of the alternatives is to create e.g. some clinics that will be open at some point in time for preventive examinations. There will be one major problem, namely that there was a doctor at school before, while now in that class you will have several children who will go to different doctors. We will have to deal with this problem somehow. We want to put it really on that preventive voluntary level so far, but we really have to do something about it because the health of Czech children is getting significantly worse and even the diseases that were not in the Czech Republic a few years ago are coming back, and it is also because some children are not vaccinated against these diseases. So far, it's really in the form of intent. A working group is created, which will also form the possibility of legislative change, and there are really experts from the Czech Medical Chamber and representatives of dentists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u127	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Semelová a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u128	I'd stop by the dentist's. I know that in some schools there are still offices, or rather a room where a child's dentist can see the children's teeth. However, it also depends on volunteering. A number of parents confirm to their children that they have a doctor, and they don't want the child's dentist to examine the children at school. On the other hand, teachers often learn that having a dentist is just an excuse, simply a child is afraid of a dentist or parents reject it. You are counting on some preventive campaign that would extend the prevention, awareness, even among your parents, for example. in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u129	I thank the Member and ask the Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u130	Thus, the Ministry of Education will primarily do prevention among children. This is already happening in some subjects, by the way, because it really is a bit of a wider issue. Our children do not only have unhealthy teeth, but at the same time they are among the fattest in Europe and drink the most alcohol and smoke the most. We have agreed with the Minister of Health that this really goes beyond education and we need to get to that level of prevention among parents. But, of course, it's going to be a lot more complicated than that. I am going back to the legislation that today does not allow this issue to be grasped as it was possible in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u131	I thank the Minister and the Member. Mr Ludvík Hovorka has now signed up for the European Union funds. Mr. Daniel Korte will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, I would like to ask the Minister for information on the progress of work and negotiations with the European Commission on the use of funds in the new programming period. There is a fundamental contradiction between the information the Health Committee has. We were given the essential information at Mr Bodnár's exit meeting that the Partnership Agreement is in Brussels and basically nothing can be changed anymore. However, contrary to this claim, we have obtained further information from the European Commission on 19 March in the sense that the European Commission is not at all identified with the accuracy of the Ministry of Health's proposal in the Partnership Agreement. Minister, I therefore ask you to explain these contradictions and how the coordination of the preparation of the future drawdown of the Employment Operational Programme with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is taking place. I think that's a crucial thing and that time is running out. The matter is urgent and needs to be resolved by the end of June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u133	Thank you, honourable Member. Given the absence of the Minister, perhaps he will be answered in writing. I will ask Mr Daniel Korte, who will interpel the Minister of Transport on supplementary tables according to Act No. 30/2001 Coll. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, in the Decree of the Ministry of Transport No. 30/2001 Coll., which implements the rules on road traffic and the regulation of traffic management on roads, § 15 para. 3 gives an additional table indicating: Outside the transport operator. This is a gross grammatical mistake, for which the 13-year-old child would have received a five-year-old at primary school, since the preposition outside is in Czech - and I, Minister, admit that in Babišovina it can be all sorts of things - only connects and exclusively with the fourth fall. So the text of the table should be, "Out of service." [[16.50 hours]] Dear Minister, how is it possible that the central government body in its legislative act in a universally binding law violates the official language of the State so roughly? And secondly, what are you going to do for redress? And without forcing an answer, I say right here, I don't want to hear anything, because it would be expensive. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u135	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister of Transport for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u136	Mr President, honourable Member, I would like to quote the precise wording of Paragraph 15 (1) of the Rules of Procedure on your questioning. 3 of Decree No 30/2001 implementing road traffic rules and road traffic management adjustments, which provide for: Supplementary table E13 with the sign "transport service only" limits the validity of the mark under which it is placed, to vehicles providing supplies or medical, repair, maintenance, municipal and similar services for the area behind the mark on vehicles bearing the mark No O1, taxi services, and to vehicles the drivers and, where appropriate, operators of which have at their place of residence, registered office or garage. These vehicles shall not be subject to the mark below which the additional table bearing the sign "except for transport operators' is placed. It bothers you to use the grammatically incorrect shape. You believe that the text should sound "outside the traffic service." The Ministry of Transport is familiar with this typo, but the small error mentioned in itself did not pose a serious problem enough to amend the decree itself. The Department of Drivers of the Ministry therefore intends to correct this typo at the nearest amendment of the decree in question, which is expected in the second half of this year in connection with the need to change the implementation of certain brands from the group of informative traffic signs. So this will be corrected by the end of this year in connection with some changes in informative traffic signs that command direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u137	Amen, so be it. Mr Korte with an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u138	I have to correct the minister. I'm so sorry. I don't think it should be outside the traffic service. Please, I know. It is enough to look into the Vocabulary of the written language of the Czech or manual Vocabulary of the Czech language, you probably don't know about the existence of these books, or the Internet language manual operated by the Czech Language Institute. I'm aware of what you said. Please only specify the date or time when the decree will be amended and please let me be informed when it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u139	Thank you, honourable Member. The minister wants a refill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u140	Dear Member, you are right that we should use the written language of the Czech language. Apparently, there's been a typo in the creation of this decree. As I said, this will be corrected in connection with the amendment that we expect in the second half of this year. Of course, I am prepared to give you this communication in writing, so that you can check for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u141	I thank the Minister for his clear answer. With further intervention, I will ask Mr Antonín Seďa, who will intersect the absent minister Martin Stropnický in the case of military schools. Mr. Václav Klučka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in the matter of the upcoming and perhaps already begun changes in military schools. According to government regulations, the only Central Military School in Moravian Trebova is to merge with civilian facilities. At the same time, the school's annual budget is over 70 miles. CZK and currently this school has 423 students and 31 teachers. Minister, savings should also be saved at the University of Defence. Let me just remind you that this one has 1 944 students and 450 educators and that the cost exceeds 760 miles. crowns a year. Supposedly from this year on, this school is supposed to save 45 miles. A year's worth of crowns. Dear Minister, military education is necessary for the much needed replacement of professional soldiers. I mean, when you sign a military school, a student signs a service contract in our army. The quality of our military schools is high and is also valued abroad. That is why I ask, Minister: Is this information true? And if so, what specific measures are planned by your ministry in military education, and when will this matter be discussed by the Defence Committee? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u143	Thank you, Mr Seďa. He'll be answered in writing. I will now ask Mr Václav Klučka, who will intersect the absent minister Helena Válková. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u144	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I have the honour to say to the Minister today for the second time what I think is not right at the moment, and this is the situation after General Dohnal's departure, the arrival of the new Director-General of the Prison Service and after his conduct concerning the departure of Deputy Prokeš and the entry of two deputy instead of one into the leadership of the Prison Service, and from the available information, which is also in the media, it seems almost clear that their salary class is a little different from that of Mr Prokeš. The question is: If this is spoken and the Minister has said publicly that he needs to make the prison service more effective, he needs to make it more efficient, slimmed down by the Directorate-General, then who pays General Dohnal today, when he has virtually no status, is almost in an airlock, has not yet passed to another functional position? As far as Mr. Prokeš is concerned, it's under the Service Act, where he was put in advance, 80 percent of what he had in his salary, so the advances are paid in this way. It's like this from the Service Act. And those two new Deputys, when I put it all together, the sum is far, far higher than it was at the time General Dohnal was there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u145	I thank Mr Klučka. He will also be answered in writing. I would like to congratulate Minister Brabco, who, as the last member of the government, must be present until the end of the interpellation, otherwise I will be forced to interrupt the interpelation. I see the Kyoto Protocol has taken over here. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u146	Dear Minister, have you ever stood in line at a post office? I don't doubt it. That is why you will agree with me that waiting needs to be minimized in unjustified cases. I'd like to introduce you to a case like this. It concerns the city of Beroun. However, I have no doubt that similar situations may occur in other cities. The reason for the dissatisfaction of the Beroun public with the branch of the Czech Post near Husovo náměstí is its insufficient capacity, for which clients are forced to stand long queues for check-in. I've heard from the locals that hourly waiting is no exception. I do not think that this situation could simply be resolved, and I beg you to take steps to remedy the current unsatisfactory state, even on behalf of the city's leadership, to which a number of disgruntled citizens are turning. Because I still have some time left, I'll ask you one more question. According to your response to my intervention at the beginning of February, you intended to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the first proposal to stabilise the Czech Post. Is this material ready? And if not, when can this be expected? If it comes out in favour of legislative changes, can it be estimated when the relevant proposals will be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. It will be answered in writing. What I can tell her is no longer March, but May. Another interview, number 30, was submitted by Mr Karamazov, who withdrew his intervention, so Mrs Olga Havlová, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, followed in order. Which therefore cannot escape and leave the relay to the Minister of Education. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u148	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. Mr. Secretary, there's been a lot of talk here about the Sumava. Several of my questions have been answered, which I would have asked you, but you have answered them before. I just want to ask you one thing. The Šumava Charter was founded as a reaction to the so-called created. the national park care plan, where changes not discussed with the regions were allegedly introduced. You said you were there discussing the changes, and according to my information, the municipalities will file a lawsuit against this plan. Do you know anything about that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u149	I thank the Member for a clear and brief question. I'll ask the Minister for a clear and brief answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u150	Thank you for the question, Madame. Here are two terms. One is the Šumava Charter and the other is called. a care plan. You're talking about the Sumava Charter, which is the material written by a group of mayors under the direction of Mr. Šubrt. I said several times that, with one exception, I would sign the plan, the Sumava Charter. You're talking about so-called. the care plan, i.e. the basic conceptual document according to which the administration of the Šumava National Park is governed. A total of 157 comments came to the care plan. The National Park Administration, not the Ministry, but the National Park Administration settles the comments. 15 comments came from the municipalities, and I don't think three or four have been settled. So, of these 157 comments, it was settled whether I was right, about 130 or 120, that far more comments were not settled from the pen of the environmental organization. Far more than those that have not been settled in favour of the municipalities. However, according to the law, we, of course, have had a legal analysis to do this, according to the law, of course it is about dealing with comments, but either accept them or explain them or reject them. So it's not that all the comments that come from all sides have to be accepted. So I don't know about the lawsuit being filed. Of course, in the event that an action is brought, it is clear that we would express our views on this in legal terms as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u151	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member no longer wants an additional question. With an interview with the absent minister Jan Mládek, Mr. René Číp. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u152	Thank you again for the floor. Dear absent Minister, I am interrogating you on the implementing decree No. 406/2000 Coll., on Energy Management, specifically Section 7 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) a). It is stated in this law that - I quote: Construction, building owner or community owners of units are also obliged to equip internal thermal equipment of buildings with devices regulating and registering the supply of heat energy to end users within the scope laid down by the implementing legislation. The end user is obliged to enable the installation, maintenance and control of these devices. The obligation is to arise at 1. 1. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. I would like your comments on this issue and thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u153	Thank you, honourable Member. It will be answered in writing as the Minister of Industry and Trade is absent. And now I will ask Mr. Jan zahradník, whom I do not see here. Minister Brabec looks disappointed, but we must cancel this interview. Next is Mrs Nina Nováková, who will interpel the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek on ethical education. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u154	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to describe briefly how I perceive ethical education in schools. Although the framework education programme remembers the moral aspect of the student's personality in a number of educational areas and in practically all cross-cutting topics, it is always a limited section of the pupil's personality. Once in progress in the field of cognitive skills, sometimes in the training of skills. However, only ethical education aims to help pupils perceive themselves as a complex person with a physical, mental and social dimension. The basic lesson in quotation marks is the understanding of the dignity and dignity of others. The basic skill is to listen to others and try to understand them. Only in ethical education is the time to talk about thinking and acting positively and making decisions for good is worth it to us and to all others, however contrary to what we see around us. I do not want to discuss for a long time what is characteristic of ethical education, but there are several accredited ones. In the last interview, I also focused on supporting primary risk prevention behaviour, and I stress that the big question mark hangs over sexual education in schools. It is ethical education, I believe, that is the correct roofing for these two areas. But it requires a well - prepared educator. Accredited courses exist, but teachers do not know about them or are hardly affordable for them. Minister, I know that with an open hand you are being approached by subjects with hundreds of well-intentioned projects. After all, I would like to point out that, compared to last year's budget, when it was earmarked under the development programme for further education of pedagogical workers, the amount of five million to implement ethical education into schools is only two million this year. The funds thus allow individual schools to at least learn about the concept of ethical education. This year - for information - only 30 of the hundreds of schools who had an eminent interest in getting acquainted with this project were satisfied. Another related question, Minister, please concerns the work of the Working Group on the Implementation of Ethical Education in Schools, which, as far as I know, worked at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and I would like to ask whether this group exists and works. I'd be honored to join you personally. If not, if you support its renewal. Minister, this morning we all agreed that the degree of lack of decency, respect for others, the rate of increase in aggression, threats and vulgarity is so great that it has shocked the most eldest members of this legislature. Although I am a great optimist and I believe that it is never too late to correct myself, I do see greater guarantees in the educational effect on children. There are areas where we adults are more of an anti-model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u155	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Minister of Education for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As far as your question is concerned, I'll basically recapitulate what you said here. Yes, in 2013 the sum of CZK 5 million was earmarked, in 2014 the amount of CZK 2 million. Given that the budget is what it is, the amount is obviously not enough for all activities. However, we are again counting on the announcement of the development programme for the implementation of ethical education into primary school education. As regards the second part of the question, the working group, according to my information, the work of this working group was cancelled or terminated two years ago. The Ministry currently cooperates with the Ethical Forum of the Czech Republic and with the Ethical Education, a generally beneficial company. I am not resisting the renewal of a working group of experts at the level of the Ministry of Education, even though it will be an unpaid function due to the funds we have, and I cordially invite you to this working group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u157	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask you a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u158	Thank you for the answer I take to heart. She's encouraging. For example, I know that Professor Sokol or others would like to continue working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u159	I thank the Member and the Minister. Mr Daniel Korte, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, will be prepared with further intercession to the absent Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Madam absent Secretary, on 4. 4. 2014 you have taken personnel measures towards the head of Rapotice prison, Colonel Ondrášek. You put him in charge of the Prison Service and set up a branch of the service income, as well as the Act on the Service of the Security Corps members. 361/2003 Coll., Tak Act on Prison Service and Judicial Guard No. 555/1992 Coll. explicitly - I expressly translate for absent Member Hájek - notes that you have the authority of personnel only and exclusively to the Director-General of the Prison Service. Colonel Ondrášek was called after. General Dohnal's appeal under the authority of the First Deputy Director-General of Colonel Prokeš and you, Madam Secretary, have violated both the sub-ordination and the relevant laws by this decision. As you will please explain this breach of law, virtually. Laws? It's two laws. In response to this question from me, when I asked him in the course of discussing the enforcement of law during the House's negotiations, she replied - I quote: "I will not answer any questions at all. I consider this to be a circumvention of the Rules of Procedure, and I think that this is also a certain expression of arbitraryness and perversion." End of quote. On the contrary, I consider this speech to be a contempt for Parliament and an effort to block and prevent the role of the Chamber of Deputies. So you will answer these questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u161	It will not be today, Mr Member, until it is in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as you say. Thank you. With another interview, 36th, I will ask Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Stanislav Polčák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I took the liberty of intersecting you at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on a contract for the Masaryk University, when the Masaryk University actually ordered two pieces of 3T experimental human full-body magnetic resonances in the proceedings without publication, stating that this is some special equipment that another company does not produce. It's not like that. I asked you a few questions about who was involved in the approval of the project, who is the author of the mentioned methodology CEITEC for public procurement, who is the author of expert opinions, whether it is expert opinions drawn up in accordance with the Law on Scholars, whether these assessments contain a proper and verifiable valuation of the subject, whether it is possible to prove that all six unique features mentioned in the justification for the application of the negotiated procedure are provided only by the selected supplier and what is the system of control over the award of similar contracts to the Ministry of Education and to the relevant university and who are the specific people responsible for the correctness of the contracts. At the same time, I asked for copies of the above expert reports. I understand that, at the time I submitted this information to you and demanded answers, you could not have been prepared for this matter, but I believe that a long time has passed for me to receive this information. So I'm assuming that you already have this information and you're going to give it to me and you're going to pass it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u163	Thank you, honourable Member. I will ask the Minister of Education to answer the question of the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As far as my answer is concerned, what I have prepared from the department because he was going through the entire contract. I even have information that, in the meantime, the competition authority has taken the initiative of one of the company's tenderers 23. 4. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. However, the Ministry has not yet approved the conditions for further expenditure with the fact that the subsequent control, which should be because one of the controls has already been carried out by the managing body of the Ministry of Education on this contract, that is to say for expenditure, documentation of this public contract, can only be after proof of all the accounting documents, with the fact that the nominal list - I apologize for not having it in front of me, because I did not know that the question will concern it, but I have no problem that we will answer all these questions in writing, as well as the specific details of this contract.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u165	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u166	Thank you for your answer. I merely briefly, what happened in the press, that special instruments were requested and the justification that a particular company's device had been requested, and thus the negotiated procedure had been used without publication, was justified by the fact that it was a unique instrument which has certain views of certain gradients, but the experts who ordered the device were unable to demonstrate why they needed such parameters. At the same time, it was found that a similar producer and other equipment existed, while the equipment was much cheaper. So that's the basic point of my interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u167	Thank you. The Minister wants an additional answer? He doesn't want to. Thank you. I will ask Mr Stanislav Polčák with an interview No. 37 to the absent Minister of Justice Helena Válková, Mr. Václav Klučka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u168	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent Madam Secretary, the criminal cases of municipal politicians are multiplying like mushrooms after rain. Examples may be unnecessary to state. An optimist could interpret this situation by releasing the hands of the previous government, so he now has the opportunity to work without any restrictions. However, given that, in some of the media-known cases, different police authorities have been assessed diametrically from the point of view of criminal law, the question is whether, in the event of an increase in the number of criminal cases of municipal politicians, we are facing a more complex phenomenon, the cause of which will have to be identified and addressed. One of the serious reasons is obvious. The current situation, as well as its media reflections, creates an environment in which it is difficult to find courageous individuals who would not hesitate to run in the upcoming municipal elections and, if necessary, take responsibility for performing their duties in their municipalities and cities. The current social atmosphere and legal uncertainty for these people who want to do something good for their surroundings are undoubtedly not an appropriate motivation. Madam Secretary, do you see this problem as seriously as I have outlined it here, and if so, what exactly are you going to do about it as Minister of Justice? At the same time, I would like to invite the absent minister to Monday's seminar of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which deals with the criminal liability of municipal and municipal council politicians and representatives, even if the Minister has not arrived at the interpelation, I do not expect this to happen at the seminar on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I hope you'll be answered in writing. With further intervention I will ask Mr Václav Klučka, Mr René Číp will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, in the previous speech, I have basically indicated that I have a problem with the fact that, at present, after the appeal, virtually. Mr. Dohnal, after finishing his duties as Director General of the Prison Service, is in an area that we cannot identify at all. It's not even in another functional location, it's not even in backup, it's just in the vacuum. And I wonder, Madam Secretary, what you're going to do about it, what you're going to do about it, how this situation is going to be dealt with. At the same time, I will use time on one more issue, because you answered the Security Committee's questions, which were raised by individual members there in the belief that you would give the individual members an answer and then the summary may appear somewhere on the committee, but we simply did not recognize this form, we do not have it, we received a sort of summary of individual responses. I would just like to point out that you should not proceed the same way in the case of the reply to the interpelation, because it is clear, but it is very clear in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u171	Thank you. Perhaps the Minister of Justice will be fair and not violate the House's Rules of Procedure. I will ask Mr René Číp to interpel him to Mrs Michaela Marksová, who is absent. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u172	Thank you again for the floor. Dear absent Minister, allow me to intercede you with the problem of non-compliance with the Labour Code by some employers and employment agencies. From the information presented to us by the media, I do not believe that this is some sort of problem, but rather a often established system, which is also used elsewhere. I therefore ask you to state whether you really consider the media to be a competent person in charge of solving this problem. Rather, I believe that this issue is entrusted to the labour authorities, the State Labour Inspection Office and, in the case of the last instance, to the judicial apparatus. Could you further tell us how many of these notifications were dealt with by these authorities in 2013 and with what results? Employees are also often forced by firms or employment agencies to sign employment contracts in such a way that it remains a matter of reason. What information do you have on this problem and what do you intend to do to improve the current situation? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u173	I thank the honourable Member, as he himself said, he will be answered in writing. I will ask Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will intersect the absent minister Svatopluk Němeček. Mr Stanislav Polčák will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u174	Dear Minister, the problem with which I am addressing you may not be very well known in large cities, but according to my information, it is all the more pressing in rural areas. It is a lack of dentists, or perhaps better said, their unfavorable deployment in the Czech Republic, which significantly reduces the availability of their services, namely a specific health care circuit. The reasons for this phenomenon are obvious. Graduates of dentistry are not much in the countryside, and even their older colleagues prefer to establish their offices in larger cities. Dental doctors who work in the countryside are getting old and often there is no one to replace them after their retirement. The consequences for the inhabitants of smaller municipalities and cities are clear. They are forced to look for a new dentist, who they often do not find, and if so, they are often forced to reach great distances. With the passing of time, the problem deepens. Dear Minister, I believe we can agree that the problem of the lack of dental practitioners needs to be addressed immediately. I therefore ask you whether and when you expect to solve it and what resources you intend to use. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u175	Thank you, Madame, perhaps she will be answered in writing. Mr Stanislav Polčák will now intersect Mr Martin Stropnický, the absent minister, and then we will end ten of you with this. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, and for waiting time, I took another piece of paper. However, in the matter on my desk, I would like to address the absent Minister Martin Stropnický in relation to the information that came to me through representatives of clubs and associations bringing together owners and operators of historical military technology. In the last few days, I have been present as a guest for several events related to the celebrations of the liberation of our country and the end of World War II. These events are traditionally associated with demonstrations of historical military technology and are very popular among citizens. They are popular for both enthusiasts of historical military technology and for families with children. Of course, few could imagine anniversary celebrations without allied soldiers in an old Jeep or an old armored transporter, but this may be the reality of the following years. I was very concerned when I was addressed to almost every event without exception by representatives of these collectors and operators of historical technology, but also by the wider public and was confronted with a very unpleasant fact such as the impact of Act No. 229/2013 Sb., on the management of security materials. I have had the opportunity to get more familiar with this legislation and I must state that this law is designed in its consequences, probably unintended, but indeed very fundamental consequences, of subsequent decrees, so that it de facto makes it impossible for operators of historical military resources to present this presentation at such meetings. I have come to the conclusion that it is imperative to amend this law and regulations, as historical military technology and the rights of its owners, as well as the whole issue of private presentations of historical military technology and its use for public cultural events, are actually treated in a liquid way. Collector's activity, museum activity, ownership and handling of historical military technology, organizing historical military events and renovation or transport of historical military technology is certainly not only appropriate in my opinion to expose such repression as can be called this legal regulation, which I have quoted here. On the contrary, we should support these activities as part of the preservation of traditions. Dear Minister, I call on you to take the necessary steps on this matter without delay, which will lead to the amendment of Act No. 229/2013 Sb. so that the amendment fully corresponds to the real state of affairs in the field of this historic military technique and thus mitigates the effects of existing legislation. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u177	Thank you, honourable Member. With another proper application by Mr. Václav Klučka, who will intersect the absent minister Helena Válková, prosit, Mr.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u178	Thank you, Mr President. You know, when I wrote an application for this interview, I had no idea at the time that there wouldn't be anyone here on this interpelatory day as a parliamentary correspondent from the Ministry of Justice, so maybe it would be better to write a destabilization at the Ministry of Justice. I'll tell you what the problem is. It is a good and experienced practice that once you dictate an interview, the parliamentary rapporteur will come to you and ask what you want, what exactly do you want from the Minister or the Minister, which areas are to be answered, what will be said in the interpelation on your part. This is how far it goes, and it's not bad, because at least then we're set from one side or the other, and the interpelations have a purpose. I know that no one from the Ministry of Justice has been here today, that the parliamentary rapporteur is on a foreign trip, is on vacation, or I don't know, she has every right to, and I don't condemn her for that. But why was there no replacement? Why didn't anyone ask us why someone didn't contact us and ask us for what the content should be, even answers in individual areas? Destabilization -- you say, Madam Secretary, she's not, but I think there's something wrong here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u179	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Daniel Korte was to be interviewed further, but he withdrew the interview for the absence of the Minister. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka's interview is followed, Mr. Stanislav Polčák will be prepared this time for the present Minister Marcel Chládek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u180	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have been contacted today by the Ministry of the Interior with the fact that the Minister will deal with me on this matter and that I will receive an answer from him, but I will nevertheless allow myself to make an interview here, because it is a matter which is quite serious. I found out that the Police of the Czech Republic issued a public contract for the supply of shoes called summer shoes, winter shoes, field shoes, and determined the qualitative and technical parameters of the shoes, but then selected shoes that did not meet the parameters. As far as I know, customs even intervened in the warehouses of a company that was selected as winning, and confiscated 200 pairs of shoes and found that it was a shoe delivered to the Czech Police and produced in China and far from meeting the qualitative parameters set out in the public contract. I want to ask, in general, who in the Ministry of the Interior or the police is responsible for the quality of supplies and for monitoring the technical parameters of goods that are collected as equipment and equipment for the Police of the Czech Republic. Previously, police worked with the Office for Defence Standardization, Cataloguing and State Quality Verification or with the Office for State Quality Verification, and unfortunately, it was probably expensive, so the cooperation was abandoned. Today, the situation is that unfortunately no one is watching the quality and paying for it by police officers. In the contract, the industrial design of the competing company was copied, the necessary materials were not supplied, which were intended to meet certain insulation properties, etc. And all this is to the detriment of people who work for the Police of the Czech Republic. So I hope that a correction will be made and that systemic steps will be taken to ensure that such things are not only repeated in shoe orders, but in all equipment for the Police of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u181	I thank Mr Hovorka, who will be answered in writing. I will ask Mr Polčák, who will interpel the present Minister of Education, to be prepared again by Mr Ludvík Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u182	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that the Minister remained here until this later afternoon and that he will be able to respond personally to my intervention, but the subject I want to touch is rather delicate and I think that he deserves a truly fundamental statement from the Minister. It's about the bullying he's supposed to carry out at his controlled workplace. I want to say that I personally became familiar with the expression of his former driver who refused to violate traffic regulations on the way with the Minister when they were not able to follow the program, and subsequently this driver was removed from the Ministry at retirement age. I mean, there are events in the gallows of the Chamber of Deputies that have perhaps been held in their knees in front of the Minister to beg for forgiveness. I don't know exactly what they did. I've also heard that there are kicked through doors at the Ministry, etc. I would therefore like to hear about what is true about the information provided by the media, the numerous testimony of the Minister's real pressure. That's what I think there are things that in their frequency, as they are presented here and how I could get acquainted with at least one case personally, so they can't all be fundamentally false. I believe that the Minister does not face any conspiracy on the part of his subordinates, but that, on the contrary, there is obviously something unfair going on, perhaps in his personal conduct and appearance. I would like to ask the Minister in charge of education whether he is aware that there are not only marks on the report sheet from professional subjects, but that there is also one box, and that is behavior. And I believe that in this field, it seems to me from how I can judge this testimony that it is not very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u183	Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Member, perhaps it would be a good idea if you were already quoting an article, so quote it accurately. It says it's getting closer to bullying, not bullying. That's the first note. Note two. Perhaps it would be good to verify the information and verify it from both sources. As for the driver mentioned earlier, I did not force the driver to break the rules and the law, I simply refused the driver to use the lighthouse. I said I don't want to use the lighthouse when driving from Prague to Zlín. Since it wasn't just me and the driver in the car, but there's a witness in the car, it's possible to ask the witness. On this basis, the driver broke the traffic regulations several times by taking the phone in his hand while driving and manipulating the phone. I didn't fire any retired driver anyway, I just asked if it was possible for him to drive with someone else. So that's the driver's case. The next case - if anyone was on their knees at the Ministry. In my office, no one was kneeling in front of me, that's your second comment. Then I read somewhere in the media that I was putting some pressure on some two employees. It's interesting that I haven't met those two employees in my entire office. I didn't even speak to them personally. And the last one was kicked through the door. I don't think so, at least I don't know that someone kicked through my door at the Ministry of Education, at least not in my office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u185	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask Mr Polčák, if he is interested, for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u186	Thank you. Minister, mobbing is a refined bullying in the workplace, according to the dictionary. I think this is exactly the case that might have something to do with your appearance at the Ministry. I know, and I'm aware that the driver didn't really use the beacon just because you didn't want it, and as far as I know, he told you that he wasn't able to get to the meeting place in Zlín on time, and that's what your argument was about. is precisely refined by shifting the reality, as you've just shown it here, and in this particular case, which I've had the opportunity to personally verify, so I clearly believe the other side after you've just shown it here. Secondly, I must say that, in my opinion, it is probably not random that so many people are talking about how you are acting at the moment, and perhaps Prime Minister Sobotka has reason to talk to you about this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u187	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u188	Well, let's get to the road first. So I said we didn't have to be there on time, but I don't think it's worth discussing, because I really consider it a marginacy, and no one was fired, that he was going slower or in what form you're presenting it here. That's one thing. What's striking, Mr. Ambassador, is that you're obviously lying here, and I'm gonna disprove it, and your reaction to that is that you believe in the other side. I've obviously told you here that it's untrue, I've told you the evidence. You're talking about some door kicked in, I said there's no door kicked in, and your reaction is you say you believe in the other side. Well, I'm offering you, Mr. Ambassador, let's see if there's a door kicked in. And let's ask - there's a thousand employees, a thousand employees. Some of them are sitting here, so come and ask them, Mr. Ambassador. I really don't have a problem with that, Mr. Ambassador. And if you have any other question at any time, Mr. Ambassador, I would be very happy to welcome you wherever I am, and we can discuss this, Mr. Ambassador. And if I make a mistake, I think that even your coworkers sitting behind you can testify that if I make a mistake, I'll admit it. But in this case, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u189	Thank you, Minister. I personally can testify that if the Minister makes a mistake, he will admit it. Thank you. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who will intersect the absent Minister Milan Chovanec, is ready to intersect. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u190	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, this is brief. I have received information from some municipalities that there is preparations for the abolition of matriculation offices in smaller municipalities and the transfer of certain competences from the municipalities towards the municipalities with extended scope, and I do not know if it is a remnant of the previous government, or whether it is some concept of the current government. But since I know that the amendment to the municipal law is being prepared, I would really like to know if there are any major changes to be made, when the registers should be disturbed in the municipalities, because I consider this a bad step and I believe that this will not be done without proper discussion and information both of the municipalities and also of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u191	I thank Mr Hovorka. He'll be answered in writing. Now I have six interviews from Mr. Václav Klučka. Mr. Ambassador, your solo.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll make it a little easier. A total of 12 interpelations were submitted to the Minister of Válková today. Eight of them are gone, and I should give four more here. Enough interference on Martin Stropnický and also on Milan Chovanec. So at the moment, Mr Vice-President, I am giving up these interventions. The ministers are gonna be busy with the answers we're gonna expect from them, and I'm gonna let you end this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-018-089.u193	I thank Mr Václav Klučka. By giving up six interventions, we have exhausted all the interpellations that have been given to ministers, mostly absent, today. So I'm saying that we've ended the oral questioning. I conclude today's sitting day of the Chamber of Deputies and end the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. Have a good evening.
