ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the Amendment and Amendment of Other Acts (the Higher Education Act), as amended (the House Press 92/ - First Reading) Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. Please, Minister, take the floor. I'll ask my honored colleagues to remain calm and listen to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Lady Mistress, honourable Members, Madam Writer. Let me briefly present a government bill that addresses the issue of appointment of professors. As you know, this is a problem that has been solved for a long time. I would like to say that this is a matter that I have neither caused nor started, but I do honour some process that has already been agreed in the past. This amendment addresses the new method of appointment of professors by switching to another constitutional agent. Given that this proposal is legislatively completely inadequate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u3	Dear colleagues - sorry, Minister - dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please keep your voice down. But I'll tell you the good news - if you keep your voice down. The club presidents agreed that today's meeting would be closed at 5:00 p.m. So if you guys stop yelling, we're really done at 5:00. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So this amendment deals with a new way of appointing professors, as I said in the previous speech, with the fact that this proposal needs to be adapted. There are two possible options. One possible option is to release this proposal to the next reading, where we should be able to modify and specify the proposal so that the professional matter remains in the universities, the process would be evaluated by the Ministry of Education and the President of the Senate, possibly by the Minister of Education - depending on how we agree on the committee - only the appointment process will be. It will also specify not only the method of appointment but also the reasons for a possible rejection so that the President of the Senate cannot refuse for any reason, but only if he were to circumvent this process. If the Grand Chamber decides to reject this proposal, I have no choice but to respect it and submit to it that it will then be up to me as the Minister of Education to enter into further negotiations with universities and with the President and to deal with the matter. Thank you for your attention, for your soulfulness, and I firmly believe that we will work together to solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u5	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jiří Zlatuška. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this proposed amendment here is useless and deserves to be rejected at first reading. It is based on the assumption that it is possible to respect non-compliance with the current legal situation and is based on a number of misconceptions about what the real problems of universities are, respectively. problems related to the appointment of professors. From one point of view, it could be said that it almost doesn't matter how professors will be appointed. It is often argued that this is the state we have with us, the traditional concept of appointing professors head of state, which is based on ancient times - sometimes mentioned Austria-Hungary. On the other hand, it is good to bear in mind that this is an act based on the traditional concept of appointing professors as head of state, which confirms the social seriousness of the representatives of the highest educational institutions, and that this in fact the Czech state shows respect for education, development, transfer of knowledge to future generations. From this point of view, it is not a question of where we should carelessly treat these symbols. At a time when we are thinking about respecting traditions that may seem successful to someone, it is good to realize that the debate about the status of professors in universities should change, that the way in which they are built should be changed, came out in the context of the so-called reforms of universities that began with the so-called White Book, and it hit several last governments, especially some ministers. That the aim of these changes was mainly the commodityisation of higher education, a change in the view of public universities in particular as educational institutions and their pushing towards more or less almost commercially active institutions, proving only a dozen services. The elite and socially respected position of university professors here in this was to retreat into the background. [[16.20 hours]] Much of what the so-called White Paper has been working with has been pushed into the background as a result of pressure from both the academic and general public, but the effort to push for at least part of the so-called reform amendments remains. Trying to do this is good to see in connection with and with trying to change the way professors are appointed at universities. As regards the legal anchoring of professors as they currently look, it is often said that universities do not like the change in the position of professors simply because professors or professors want to write it prof. or doc. before the name as a title. Here I would draw attention to the fact that there is no such thing as academic degrees in the Czech rule of law, unlike academic degrees with which education is terminated, these are those JUDr, Mgr etc., so for professors, professors, for the abbreviations prof. and doc., there is no definition of these titles that would regulate their use. In other words, if we look at this from a constitutional point of view, nothing that the law expressly does not prohibit is forbidden to citizens. Write prof. or doc. Any citizen can before the name, and you won't find a law that limits this here. It is a strange situation where I merely point out that there is not only a positive legal definition in this area, but also a number of traditions that are actually respected by the environment. Part of these traditions is trying to break the proposal, but some of them are completely out of control. The current Higher Education Act contains 57 instances of the professor's words, but if you read how this term is treated in the law, then only in one single case, in the database that is conducted for the purposes of accreditation proceedings, it is a job. So at the moment when the way professors are appointed is connected with the so-called. function points, it's a non-existent problem. The appointment of a professor is the recognition of qualifications, which has been achieved on the basis of a very precise procedure, which is contained in sections 73, 74 and 75 of the Higher Education Act. It is mostly a matter of qualifying appreciation for these personalities. As far as job labelling is concerned, these are referred to as the same term, but it is indeed a different term. In universities in the past it was quite common, at the moment it is not so common, but nothing prevents jobs from being labeled by this same term, regardless of whether there is a direct causal link. This duality of use of the word professor was contained in one of the proposals that were discussed by this Chamber of Deputies, and it was in a period that ended in the fall of the government, if I remember correctly, the ODS and the establishment of an official government. On 30 April 1997, the 189 press, signed by 56 Social Democratic Members, was submitted. One of them was then MP Miloš Zeman, today's president of the Czech Republic. This proposal contained both the appointment of professors by the President of the Republic, or the current President himself signed this proposal for his time, but in addition there was also a standard practice, which the explanatory report of this legislative proposal referred to as existing practice. It literally said "behaved with the previous titles, it is proposed to refer to them as academic degrees of professor and professor, their legal significance." And it says, "It's not a job title at a certain college." So that this thing connects with the debate process about what the nature of academic staff in universities is, by definition, a link that is wrong. Nowadays, there is nothing preventing high schools from using this division. Higher education institutions have sufficient competence to work with professors and/or lecturers to comply with their internal wage regulations or to meet international obligations, which, for example, through the European University Association, they accept for opening up places of foreign competition, where it would be much more useful from the Ministry of Education if it were to ensure compliance with, for example, the declarations of the European Commission and the European University Association on compulsory publication of all selection procedures to scientific sites on the relevant server of the European Commission, not to change the existing legal situation in such a way that there is no significant problem. As part of the study of what the government presented during the past not too legitimate activity and now repeated it, I have devoted myself to several aspects that seemed formally problematic to me on this proposal. I asked the Minister how the initiative presented by the President of the Republic on 22 May 2013 was presented specifically, according to the explanatory memorandum. The explanatory memorandum specifically states: "The Government's bill is presented on the initiative of the President of the Republic of 22 May 2013 by which the President of the Republic has recommended an adjustment in the scope of the appointment of professors under the Higher Education Act'. Here is the problem that the President of the Republic does not have a legislative initiative, so formally, this is a special step. The answer is even more strange, however, because it states that the complaint was brought only orally by the President of the Republic at a meeting with the former Minister of Education. I got a reference to a public presentation from May 22nd at a press briefing. Definitely from the point of view of all the essentials of how legislation is being prepared, it is a procedure that is extremely non-standard. The proposal to change who appoints professors was approved by the appointment of the President of the Senate to the government without trust and in the resignation of Prime Minister Rusnok at his meeting on January 8. I asked when and by whom a proposal was made for the President of the Senate to be put there, not as the previous discussions with the previous ministers were about the Minister of Education. According to the information provided by the Minister of Education, this proposal was made at an oral meeting with the President of the Republic on 7 January 2014. So on January 7, the proposal was made orally, and on January 8, the Government is discussing this proposal. This can be pictured as to how the process is going, which regulates something that has relatively large consequences for both the activities of universities and, for example, our position in terms of international agreements on mutual recognition of professors' appointments, such as Slovakia. The proposal did not go through the standard legislative procedure under the Government's legislative rules. As a result, no relevant analysis of the legal and factual situation has been carried out and an assessment of the need for changes in the legal situation, as the government's legislative rules for legislation put forward by the government presume. I have been asked how this has been done here, a general answer, that such matters are probably not covered by government legislative rules and there is no need to process appropriate preparatory steps. [[16.30 hours]] The fact that there are dozens of university teachers who have successfully passed the appointment procedure and whose proposals from the appointment procedure were submitted to the President of the Republic through the Ministry of Education between 1 April 2013 and 31 December 2013. In total, these are 85 proposals for appointments. These 85 proposals were deliberately detained by Minister Štys, a minister without trust and in resignation, more or less as I understand it, at the Ministry of Education and were not referred to the President of the Republic for this formal appointment. If you recall, in the Gesture of the Ministry of Defence from the University of Defence one proposal that went this way was passed on and without any problems the appropriate appointment was made. Here I believe that Minister Štys simply abused his powers and damaged these 85 candidates for appointment. On the other hand, even if we were based on a hypothesis that does not seem to me to be based on anything, that the President of the Republic may want to proceed in some arbitrary way, I acknowledge that the media reports look like the President of the Republic refuses to comply with the law and refuses to carry out the appointment here. But if the proposals have not been sent to him, then I think it is more correct to say that the mistake is on the part of the previous Minister of Education, not the President of the Republic. However, even if we accept as a starting point the hypothesis that this is the President's will and that he does not want to continue his appointment, I would point out that, in terms of wage claims, for example, for those who go through the appointment procedure, it is fully within the competence of universities to incorporate wage demands into the internal wage regulations of universities in such a way that the person who passes the successful appointment procedure has all wage demands as if he had been formally appointed. There is no problem with the work of the Accreditation Commission in order to take account of persons who have successfully been appointed and are merely detained by the Minister of Education or by the President from being appointed, and it is possible to wait a few years for the situation to change and another head of state to sign the respective naming decrees. I would point out that this is not the act of handing over the naming decrees itself. A number of previous ministers handed these naming decrees to professors in Karolin because for some reason, either consciously as an almost expression of where they were going, or just out of time or otherwise busy, the president did not come. Maybe I got my presidential decree from Minister Pilip for President Havel's work. The appointment, of course, was made by the President because he is signed on that presidential decree, and there is a countersignation by the Prime Minister, as the laws presume. But all that goes on about whether or not the President of the Republic should go to Karolina, these are all secondary matters. In view of these aspects here, I will propose that this proposal be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open this general debate, in which I have the priority right of Mr Kalousek, Mr Petr Fiala, then Mr Schwarzenberg, to whom Mr Grebeníček and Mrs Putnová have duly signed up. But before I give them my word, I have a de facto Mr Rais here. . [[Some Members Report]] I didn't see it, I don't know, I'm sorry. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u8	Have a good day. I'll be quick. Gentlemen, I would like to suspend this legislative process, because there is something like the notion of academic freedom of universities, and I believe that in the process under the leadership of the former government, this process has not been fully accepted, because these materials have not been discussed with the Rectors' Conference and with the College Council. That's what I think was like the mistake of the previous leadership. After all, as far as I'm concerned... So I think the process wasn't exactly kosher, to say the least. As far as content is concerned, I believe that everyone in our country must carry out their duties as well as the President. So when the President is given the materials, he should sign. But that's where the Ministry of Education has to deliver the materials to the president's office. So this would be a good thing for them to deal with in form. That's why I don't think it's worth changing the law and exchanging one person for another because it's not clear anywhere... even the position of President of the Senate isn't for life, and there may be another person who's going to have some problems with it. And that's why I don't think it's okay to change the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please Mr. Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u10	Madam President, honourable Members, I believe that we should be aware of the first task of Parliament as a representative of the people, which is to remind the head of state that she too is bound by the Constitution and the laws and that, above all, she must obey and comply with the law, fulfil her duty, and then we can only discuss proposals on the future form of appointment of professors. But first, the president should do his duty until the last dot. But if Parliament is so influenced that it is debating the proposal without fulfilling its first task, namely the representation of the people towards the head of state, I would like to know why we are sitting here. Then all we can do is follow orders. Please really remind them to comply with the law, so that the Constitution can be fulfilled, and then we can discuss something else. It is not appropriate for Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic to move forward in front of the head of state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And another de facto Minister Chládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u12	Thank you and only the factual point concerning the process. Yes, it is true that the previous Minister of Education violated this process. And I have already said in the discussion before that last week I have already sent this bill by letter to both the Czech Rectors' Conference and the Council of Higher Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u13	Thank you. Another party to the general debate with priority rights is Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, it is such a steady custom that when the opposition club disagrees with the draft and joins the motion for rejection, it also critically criticizes the petitioners on that occasion. I'd like to do the opposite in this case. On the contrary, I think that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should take Minister Chládek as the Minister of Government, who answers to the Chamber of Deputies, somewhat under protection, because the problem that he is trying to solve as far as possible is not the problem of the dispute of the Minister of Education - the President of the Republic, but it is a question of the dignity and competences of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the responsibilities and responsibilities and competences of the President. What we have here is a desperate attempt to somehow unlock almost a hundred unnamed professors, who will continue to grow, because one constitutional institution - in this case, the President of the Republic - has been given an individual whim and says no, and I am ready to stretch some of my powers to the very limit of constitutional customs and other duties that I, dear Parliament, dear public, cough, for I have been elected directly and only I have the right to decide which duties I will perform and which I will not. If the Parliament of the Czech Republic responded to this approach by saying, of course, certainly, Mr President, in which case we will change the law, we will move it on to the second highest constitutional officer, if you, for God's sake, ever become President of the Senate again in the future, we will move it somewhere else, so we will lose all our dignity in principle. We are a collective body, but we are the institutions of the constitutional system just like the individual institutions of the President of the Republic. And just as none of us will take down our constitutional responsibilities, other institutions can't take them out of each other, even if they're the president of the Republic by God's permission. It's just his duties from the Constitution, and we're not supposed to make it easy for him to comply with his whims. We have to remind him of his duty. Therefore, I very much ask, not in the interest of the now higher law, I assume that sometime in the future the amendment of the higher law - much more comprehensive, not more purposeful, not one single person's written opinion - will be addressed by Parliament, but that at this time the Chamber of Deputies reject this proposal - which is my proposal within the framework of the debate - very politely said to the President: Mr President, either do your duty, and if you do not want to do it, you are a free man, resign to your office, one or another, there is no third option, and that we take this approach under the protection of the Minister of Education, because it is a problem of conversation between us, the Chamber of Deputies, with the President of the Republic - not the problem of the Minister of Education and his communication with the President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u15	Thank you, Mr Member, and before I invite Mr Petr Fiala to the microphone, please, Mr Fiedler, in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u16	Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to respond briefly to the words that have been said here. I will also vote in favour of rejecting this proposal, but I would like to respond mainly to the words of Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, who has said here that we represent the interests of the people here in the Chamber of Deputies. It was a part or a part of the parliamentary pledge of our Members here in Parliament, and I hope that Mr Karel Schwarzenberg will have the same consistent view when the House Press 28, the referendum on property settlement with the churches, and that he will take the same view and again hold the opinion of the citizens of this country in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u17	I thank you and I beg you, Mr. Ambassador, to turn to your colleagues next time through me. Thank you. Another priority right entered into the debate is Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few words to be explained, because at the beginning of this case, on the basis of which we are making decisions here today, I was in the role of the Minister of Education. In the spring of last year, I was confronted with a situation that had no tradition in the Czech Republic, namely that the President of the Republic decided not to respect the process leading to the appointment of professors at individual universities, and said that he would not appoint some candidates to him proposed by the scientific councils of universities. Eventually, his position was limited to one known name for all of you - Professor Martin Putna. I have tried to find a solution from this situation, because, as I have already said, all previous heads of state have always respected the decisions of the university and the fact that the process of appointment of a professor is actually a matter of universities and the procedure described in the Higher Education Act and that the appointment of the President of the Republic is an appointment of a symbolic, ceremonial one that gives it all a kind of social weight. The moment President Zeman decided to create a new tradition, she needed some sort of response. My key objective, and in my opinion, and the responsibility of the Minister of Education, was not to create a precedent case that a candidate approved by the Scientific Council of the College was not appointed by the President of the Republic. I have achieved this goal, President Zeman has appointed all the proposed candidates, but I have achieved this goal on the basis of a promise to prepare a bill with the power of appointment to be transferred from the President of the Republic to the Minister of Education. I had no problem with this promise and the proposal because, in the long term, as a representative of universities, I held that the way in which the professor is appointed President of the Republic is archaic, does not correspond to the needs of higher education or the customs in most higher education systems abroad, and that it is necessary to move the entire appointment to the gesture of universities, and to do so the way through the Ministry of Education seemed appropriate to me. In addition, there are examples from abroad for this, for example, in Germany, on the basis of a proposal from universities, the professors are appointed by the relevant Earth Minister. However, I did not have the opportunity to prepare this proposal due to the fall of Petr Nečas' government, and I also could not assume what would happen in the next period. And what happened in the next period, I find it completely, totally unacceptable. It happened that the Ministry of Education had not submitted proposals to the President of the Republic to appoint people who had passed the appointment procedure, and that therefore the President of the Republic had not named colleagues and colleagues who had been preparing for the years to become professors and who had fulfilled all the conditions for professors to be at our universities. So more than 80 candidates for a professor and professor have become hostages to a politician, hostages to the will or will of the President of the Republic to carry out the duty imposed on him by law. The obligation imposed on him by the Higher Education Act. [[16.50 hours]] That, in my opinion, is unacceptable and this situation must be corrected as quickly as possible. And I have absolutely no problem discussing a change in the manner of appointment, and I am even one of those, as I have already said, who are long-term pros. But what's impossible is for the President to make it conditional that he does something by adopting a law. That's just not possible, because it's completely irresponsible to those people who are waiting to be appointed professor or professor. I understand that Minister Chládek is innocent, I would say quite innocent. He's trying to find a solution. But the solution that is presented here today for our decision is a solution that we cannot accept. And I, all of you, who may not be so familiar with the issue of the appointment of professors and university issues, ask that you give the words of those, regardless of the political camp, who have that experience and who say that this proposal cannot be approved in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three options that are serious, reasonable and good and that we can discuss. This is to leave the whole process as it is, and to leave the appointment to the President of the Republic. It is in some countries, most of the countries of the former Soviet bloc, the practice that exists. The second option is that the establishment process should be supplemented by the appointment of the Minister of Education himself. It is less common practice abroad, but as I said, for example, it is realized in neighbouring Germany. And the third option is that the professors are appointed by the university itself on the basis of precisely defined criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most common practice used in virtually all developed higher education systems, and it is something that I would be prepared to support. But what's completely unusual, unsystemic, and you're not likely to find it anywhere in the world, is that he would appoint professors as chairman of the Upper House of Parliament. And not only is it unusual for professors to be appointed, but it doesn't have logic in our constitutional system, because it doesn't fit with the powers that the chairman of the upper chamber otherwise has. So, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you very much not to succumb to the pressure of the situation trying to deal with it too quickly and not to make a big mistake, which merely degenerates the university degree or rank of professor and brings even more confusion into the whole system than it is there. It is therefore necessary to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a de facto request from the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u20	Thank you, Madam President. With a small repair - a senator, not a MP. [[I'm sorry.]] Nothing happened. I'm just briefly responding to Mr. Education Minister. In my speech, I made it clear that this proposal was not applicable and that we had to adjust it at the next reading. And I also said two options that I can admit. That means one option is the appointment of the President of the Senate. Unlike Mr. Fiala, I see logic there. That means the president appoints the rectors, the second highest constitutional official of the professors. As far as the second proposal is concerned, I will allow myself to admit it, and this is the Minister of Education. However, I would point out that this was a major setback on the part of the universities themselves. I, therefore, should not delay the process, because it affects a whole range of things, including the accreditation of some programs in universities, which is why I have just agreed to have this option on the committee's second reading. But I would like to make one point of fact. The trial was not delayed by the President of the Republic. The process was delayed by the Education Minister Štys. It is necessary to say this publicly here, because he sent the professors' proposals up to January 21st or January 22nd of this year. The professors lay at the Ministry of Education for about six months. And it is true, as the rapporteur said, that at a time when another professor was presented to him by the Minister of Defence, this professor was appointed without a problem. So it is not true that he does not respect this process by the President of the Republic, but this process has not been followed by the ex-minister Štys.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u21	Thank you, and with another fact I have Mr Stanjura's enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u22	I don't think we can do this, Mr. Secretary. You say this proposal is useless, but let's move on and rewrite it there. This is not a standard legislative process. The variations were described here by Chairman Fiala. We can discuss them, we can debate them with the academic community, but we cannot debate them by having a deadline. The debate has not yet begun, and we are to vote in the second reading within 60 days on whether or not we will accept this proposal. It's a disgrace to the former government and the former Minister of Education for leaving it in a drawer somewhere. I don't know what he was afraid of. Okay, so he finally took it out of the drawer and sent it to Prague Castle in January. Okay, let's see how quickly the President will act. But there's no reason to let it go into second reading. None. Apart from the fact that we're worried that the President isn't going to act, and this is going to happen to those who really have done everything and now they're waiting, and they don't really know why they're waiting. Because we can't make the law change by preparing another. All right, let's agree to lower taxes. And until then, we don't pay them? That's exactly the same logic. And I could add other examples. So - and then in the logic that the president, the second highest constitutional official, the President of the Senate or the President of the Senate, will appoint professors. Well, the House Chairman might as well name deans. That just doesn't make any sense, we're just making it up to reason why the world's unique fact that the chairman of the upper chamber appoints professors is at all debating. I think the best approach is to reject it. If the new Minister of Education and the new Government have a need to change their way of appointment, have a proper debate with the academic community, have a proper legislative process, and then we can get back to that when the government bill is here. This really goes without saying, and it's not that in three, four, five weeks, we're gonna have a quick deal about what we're gonna do about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u23	Thank you and with the de facto Mr. Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u24	I would just like to stress that the debate on a greater change in how professors will be appointed and what they mean must be conducted in the context of the entire balance of the higher education law. Today, the law allows appointment proceedings to be carried out at one school with effect over all schools. We recognise, on the basis of an interstate contract, professors appointed in Slovakia by the Slovak President. There have also been such opinions that we could ask Slovakia, within the framework of interstate relations, that the Ministry could send our proposals there to be appointed by the Slovak President. That's an extreme matter, but it would suit those contracts. And examples from abroad are very tricky. In Germany, universities fall within individual countries. It is not a federal arrangement and it is a system where the Ministry has the power even to establish jobs directly at individual universities. It's not portable. The only thing we could come up with from the big changes would be the total abolition of the professorship itself. This would really be a situation that would fit the Anglo-Saxon world. But that's a step that can't be done in such a way that somebody gets a bad night's sleep and says, "I'm having trouble signing or signing an appointment," so we have to make these changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-005-036.u25	Thank you. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, today's session of the Chamber of Deputies ends at 17 o'clock. That is why I am interrupting this point in the general debate. It's point 36, Senate press 92 at first reading. At the same time, I am ending today's meeting day. We'll meet here tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when we'll proceed with the approved program.
