ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u1	87. Government report on the development of critical unemployment in the Czech Republic This item has been interrupted in the general debate in which Mr Zavadil and Mr Opálka were joined. I'm begging you to get to the Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, my colleagues, my dear government, it is difficult to speak after such an excited debate. Now I don't mean emotional, but what's actually going on in there, and everything we've gotten as information doesn't add up to you, and I'm a little bit affected by the fact that 31 years ago, I experienced myself looking into a machine gun in an African Republic where I spent six months, so I can imagine what's going on in Ukraine. However, I am returning to the subject of unemployment and to some of the things that have fallen here and to some of the comments. As I see it, unfortunately, those who should hear it aren't here right now, but there's nothing that can be done. There was talk about the price of work, there was talk about how the government deals with or doesn't deal with unemployment, there was talk about minimum wage. I would like to make a few comments. I'll start with the cost of work. How can it be said that we should actually regulate unemployment by reducing earnings, reducing the cost of work, and achieving better results? Where is the more expensive price of work - in Germany, Sweden or with us? Certainly in Germany and Sweden, and oddly enough in Germany, unemployment is one of the lowest. So it's not about the cost of the job. And now that I'm talking about the price of work, and I think I've already said it here once, it's necessary to distinguish whether I'm talking about social and health insurance, or whether I'm talking about earnings as such, about wages, because when these two things come together, we find that the price of work in our country is very low. [[17.30 hours]] Minimum wage. You know, the rumors that are building up around the minimum wage are already making me smile, and I don't know how to react to that anymore. I would recommend to all those who want to talk about minimum wage to get statistics from the Ministry of Labour first, there is a minister here, she will certainly be happy to send it to them, where it can be traced in a number of years, how unemployment developed in increasing minimum wage. It is a pity that the President of the ODS is not here and that I cannot tell him, through Madam President, that I would have believed that he would have found this in his university education and that he would have found that there are no great connections. And I actually got it from these analyses, and please go take a look at it, and then let's talk about it. Why both west and east of us, where the minimum wage is relatively higher percentagely relative to the gross wage, why are there no problems? Why are the small, medium-sized entrepreneurs pulling their minimum wage, and here we are making so much noise that our companies are going to collapse? That's not true! It's just not there. So why is the minimum wage, which now moves well below 40 percent, not the institution that should burden companies? Or is it? Or is our economy really in such a way that entrepreneurs have to pick up on the crappy profits they pay to catch up on social benefits in quotation marks? That's not true either. I do not believe that the debate on unemployment should be conducted in these directions. We haven't been dealing with the causes of such high unemployment, and I think that's the first thing we should be talking about. If frozen investments have been over a number of years and if something is to help not only the economy to move, but also to increase employment, it is only investment. That's all we can talk about in my opinion. And speaking of investments, I'm talking about meaningful investments. I can question requalifications that are some kind of tool, I can ask how many people who have gone through requalifications have been able to apply themselves, if the requalifications were really useful. You can talk about all this. But as long as this country's economy doesn't move, and now there are indications that it will, until investment funds are really put into projects that can bring higher and higher employment, we're just not going to move forward with unemployment. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u3	Thank you. And now I have a factual remark from Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u4	Thank you for the floor. We've been fighting over the amount and price of work in connection with unemployment with Jaroslav Zavadil for, like, 15 years now, and I don't want to hold them up for the evening. But I think it should be heard, and we pro-European politicians should note that the reduction in labour prices in the interests of employment is a rather strong recommendation from the European Commission on the convergence programme for 2014 and will certainly be repeated for 2015. In addition, the European Commission recommends that we make further progress in reducing the structural deficit, which we will talk about next time. But he also advises us to lower the cost of the job. So, Mr President, if you say that Kalousek and Fiala are wrong about this, in order to be complete, you must add that the European Commission is wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u5	Thank you. Before I invite Mr Zavadil to the microphone, let me read two apologies from today's meeting. From today's meeting, Mrs Chalánková apologizes from 16.45 and from 17.30 for working reasons, Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u6	Thank you. Through you, Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Kalousek: yes, the European Commission, in my opinion, but not only in my opinion, is wrong! Period. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u7	With another factual remark, I have Mr Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. If there is no correlation between minimum wage and unemployment, there is also no correlation between minimum wage and investment in the economy. I would just like to point out that minimum wage is not investment, but cargo.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u9	I thank the honourable Member, and before I invite Mr Opálka to the microphone duly applied for, I must read another apology, namely Minister Daniel Herman, who apologizes for today's meeting from 17.30 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I promise I'll be quick not to slow down your departures to your homes, and I'll limit myself to thirteen thesis or thought and questions. [[Question from Minister Zaoralek off the microphone: Thirteen pages?]] Thirteen thees. Low unemployment in the Czech Republic compared to abroad is among others. as a result of setting up the pension scheme. The fact that we have citizens early retirement at a lower age and that we have 250,000 citizens in early retirement. Not better economic situation or politics, but statistically. Furthermore, unemployment is a fertile land of high-level work, which is lucrative for employers, but disadvantageous for quasi-employees and for a state that loses tax and insurance contributions, but pays unwarranted social benefits. The would-be search for support to increase employment in the form of labour flexibility extends incompatible employment or illegal svarcsystem, which also leads to a reduction in contributions, both tax and insurance, to public budgets. There is therefore a question where the state is to take not only the unemployed to support employment, but also to promote employment, when both employees and employers want to pay less and less and to draw more and more. Unemployment is also a cause of increasing labour intensity, and even non-compliance with employment contracts, because few people have paid even their entire working hours and are afraid to claim their rights from the employer, enshrined in a bleak labour law, or to submit this information to labour inspectorates. Unemployment is also caused in the Czech Republic by a high annual work fund of more than 2,000 hours, unlike the European 15th, where this annual work fund per worker is 1,500, up to a maximum of 1 700 hours. But we don't have so long vacations here, so many holidays and shorter periods of the household can't live. There it is. As has been said here, work must be paid out, both to employees and employers. But in our country, this payment is often replaced by legislative or financial subsidies from the state and by increasing staffing. It is not normal for an employed citizen, often a full-time civil servant, to be entitled to state social support because of a low wage. That is why it is necessary to optimally adjust the relation between average and minimum wage, between minimum wage and minimum pension, between minimum wage and minimum living minimum and between minimum wage and existential minimum and gradually, as my colleague Zavadil said, to approximate the average labour price of the average price in the European Union. Low wages lead to a reduction in purchasing power and then, of course, to a low margin of traders, because when the purchasing power is small and does not buy, the trader tries. And we are in a vicious circle that needs to be cut, despite the opposition of employers, because, after all, philosophically speaking, it will be beneficial for them eventually as well. [[17.40 hours]] The State must help especially in affected regions, but also in micro-regions, where they are unable to help themselves. But nationwide, and that is our task, is to be an incentive for consumption today, which is the only one that can motivate higher production of goods and the need for services, and thus, of course, to absorb employment. However, consumption may not always be understood materially, but also as a meaningful use of leisure time and helping our disabled. There is still a great deal of room for business here, I would say, in environmentally undemanding sectors, which is what awaits us. It is therefore high time for interdisciplinary work over the national employment programme, which sets short-term, medium-term and long-term objectives and tasks for ministries, not just for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which extinguishes the situation, or the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture, which influence the creation of new jobs, but for all ministries, from education, which creates a skilled workforce, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which can secure exports. It is also necessary to count on the role of regions, municipalities and non-profit sectors. That's all I wanted to mention. That point 13 was a question for the Minister of Finance. She's not here, but at least let me bring her in. Mr. Secretary, please show off. What was the average salary of workers, for example, in Olmy Olomouc's operation before you stopped doing business, and what was the percentage of the average wage in the Czech Republic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u11	I thank the honourable Member and ask whether anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final words and the appointed minister of government whether he will want to use the final word. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u12	Madam President, honourable Members, I just want to say that, of course, I will be intensively concerned with the issue of unemployment and that we are also intensively concerned with it within the framework of tripartite. And what Mr Opálka has just said here, we have also talked about this, that it is necessary to work together on this, to solve the problem, inter-ministerially. The first material shown here by the Prime Minister was only from two ministries, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but the Ministry of Education's material will be added to this, because of course it is necessary to link with education and, with those who leave school, they are then useful for the labour market. I'm assuming how it was said here that we're going to report on the state of the struggle against unemployment on a regular basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u13	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I now ask the rapporteur's final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u14	Thank you all for your patience and thank you to those who have discussed, too, because it turns out that there is an interest in this subject. I will not respond to all the contributions because I did so during the debate in factual terms. Perhaps just one or two small notes. When the criticism came down that the title was wrong, that it was just a development and not a solution, that's what I'm reading here, that's where he suggested the inclusion, that's where it was affected in the width. So not only about the development of critical state, but also about the steps leading to the resolution of this state. Shortening occurred during the next hearing. I would like to read here again the motion for a resolution, which responds precisely to the critical remark that it is not just a statement of the situation, and in a number of contributions it has also been mentioned here, but that it is also really the solution. The resolution politely asks, i.e. the resolution, if it is adopted, the Chamber of Deputies politely asks the government to take steps to report regularly on their implementation. I am glad that the Minister here has promised a moment ago that he will also submit interim reports on the status of the battlefield, in quotation marks, with unemployment. Now a little bit of statistics. There were 15 Members and two Members in the debate. Some of them repeatedly, and some of them to the point. There was no other proposal, at least I did not notice as rapporteur, no motion for a resolution other than the one I made at the beginning. I will now, Madam President, allow myself to read it again so that we know exactly what Members are to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u15	Mr rapporteur, I will formally open up a detailed debate in which you would read it. I hereby open a detailed debate with the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u16	Thank you. We're all aligned to the same wave. It's obvious. Motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. takes note of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's information on the development of a critical unemployment situation in the Czech Republic, II. 1. Calls on the Government to adopt, implement as soon as possible, and also to the Chamber of Deputies to present a comprehensive set of steps to reduce unemployment and create new jobs; 2. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to provide information on the procedure and results of the implementation of these measures at each further meeting of the Chamber of Deputies." Since this is a comprehensive motion for a resolution, I would ask that this resolution be voted not in part, but at once, or en bloc. Thank you very much and thank you to all those who have taken part in this long discussion with a view to helping the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u17	I thank the rapporteur and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u18	I would like to propose, given what took place here this morning in the context of that point which is on the board, that the vote on this resolution be divided, because the idea that each Chamber of Deputies will be held here in the same manner as we had here does not suit me very much. I would therefore like to have a separate vote on each of these points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u19	Mr. Mr. Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madames and gentlemen, I would like, as rapporteur and as draftsman of the motion for a resolution, to reject the word manga. After all, those who were speaking to the point were really speaking to the point. I didn't feel like there was any manga going on here, and I think it's desirable that we get the government's regular information on the subject, which I would say, in internal politics, is one of the most pressing, here in the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that I am deeply convinced that the contributions that have fallen off the subject have already been exhausted and that we will no longer argue about who is or is not a politician and the like, but that they will speak to the point. It's very serious. Thank you. I insist, I suggest that the procedure be approved by vote en bloc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-021-087.u21	Okay, thank you. I am now asking whether anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate and I am asking whether the rapporteur or the Deputy Prime Minister is interested in the final words. [[Not the rapporteur.]] Madam Secretary? Not either. So now we will vote on the proposals that have fallen here, and that is the proposal to vote on the resolution separately. I am opening the vote on this proposal and asking who is in favour. [[Objection in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, so I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you all to sign up with your cards again. Thank you. And now I am opening the vote on the motion for a vote on the resolution after each step. [[Again the objections in the right side of the hall.]] Okay, so we can't vote. I'll call the other colleagues if they come. Okay, since we're not a quorum... [[Voices from the O.R.: We are!]] Okay, so we are opening the vote on the motion to vote on the resolution after each step. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The vote (Number 94) ends and I note that the proposal has been rejected. [[Registered by 123 Members, for 59, against 54.]] We will therefore vote on the proposal as a whole. I am now opening the vote on the motion for a resolution read by the rapporteur, Mr Kováčik. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 95, to which 124 Members are registered, when 55 have been voted in favour. I note that the motion for a resolution has been rejected. This concludes today's point and I note that the motion for a resolution has not been approved. I'm interrupting the meeting until May 13th 14 hours.
