ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-002-030.u1	30. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and organised crime, signed on 12 September 2013 in Sarajevo/the House Press 63/ - second reading I note that we are at the third reading and that instead of the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, the words will be taken by the Minister of the Environment Brabec. [[right in the second]] But I would ask Mr Pavel Holík, who is the rapporteur on this matter, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. We interrupted the point on Tuesday 13. 5. in the general debate. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-002-030.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after my previous experience with the Kyoto Protocol, I have taken advantage of this opportunity to speak to other colleagues with sincere hope that next time they will take it for me. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The purpose of this Treaty is to provide the police and customs authorities of both States with the necessary legal framework for effective cooperation in the fight against all forms of crime, to lay down the basic rules for their direct contacts and the principles for the management of the information transmitted. At present, cooperation between the Czech and Bosnian actors is not regulated at bilateral level. The Western Balkans region is very important in terms of the need for cooperation between the authorities responsible for combating crime and the negotiation of police cooperation agreements with the countries of the region has been one of the priorities of the Ministry of Interior in the international contractual area in recent years. As a standard, the Treaty contains a demonstrative definition of the scope and forms of cooperation, the basis being the exchange of information. It also provides for the possibility of sending police liaison officers and cooperation in the field of training and education. The contract shall also specify the authorities responsible for its implementation, regulate the formalities and handling of requests for cooperation or the conditions for the transfer and protection of personal data and classified information. In the area of information exchange, the Treaty reflects the fact that the Czech Republic is part of the Schengen area and therefore an important regulation was introduced by the Czech Party to facilitate the sharing of information transmitted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Party with other Member States of the European Union, respectively. Schengen area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-002-030.u3	Thank you, Minister. I do not have a written application for a debate because we have heard the rapporteur's word before the negotiations are adjourned. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. We will proceed to the vote on the proposed resolution of the Foreign Committee. Do you want to repeat it? No. Who agrees with the proposed resolution of the Foreign Committee? I've started the vote on order 176 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 176 from the present 126 for 88, against no one. The Chamber of Deputies agreed to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and organised crime, signed on 12 September 2013 in Sarajevo. I thank the Minister and end with item 30. The next item is point number
