ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended /German press 208/4/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments and his resolution was delivered as House press 208/5. I welcome Senator Karel Korytář among us. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš speak for the plaintiffs on the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. I will ask the President of the Faltýnek Parliamentary Club to ensure the presence of the Minister for the discussion of the standard. Until the Minister of Finance and the Vice Prime Minister arrives, I am interrupting this item. Let's hope he'll be here soon. I am interrupting the meeting and, therefore, a point until the Vice Prime Minister arrives. Without him, it's impossible to continue discussing that point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue. I would now ask the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled to comment on the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u3	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry, but I haven't been notified and I was at a press conference with the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, no one came to pull me out of the conference, so I'm sorry I kept you. So I would like to read the opinion. Mr President, colleagues, let me briefly comment on the draft law amending Act No.353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, concerning the amendment of excise duty rates on tobacco products due to the obligation of the Czech Republic to comply with the requirement for minimum taxation of cigarettes laid down in Council Directive 2011/64/EU on the structure and rates of excise duty on tobacco products. This proposal was returned to the Chamber of Deputies by the Senate, as amended by the amendments adopted by it, aimed at incorporating in the press the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, which re-establishes the tax advantage of so-called green diesel. Since this is a legislative technical regulation, i.e. a combination of two amendments to the Consumer Tax Act in order to change their content in substance, I agree with the adoption of House Press No 208/4 as amended by the amendments adopted by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I ask whether the President of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, and the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee Radek Vondráček, wish to speak gradually on the amendments tabled by the Senate. Ambassador, would you like to comment? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u5	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just want to deliver my position as rapporteur to the House, which is in agreement with what the Senate has given us back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. Mr. Radek Vondráček? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u7	It'll be short. There is no new position by the Constitutional Committee on this matter, i.e. the original position remains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. I am opening the debate and Senator Karel Korytář will be the first to speak in the debate. Mr Okamura, who is duly registered, will then be prepared. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u9	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Members of Parliament, at its 24th meeting on 27 August 2014, the Senate approved the above-mentioned bill, as amended by the amendments, when 69 Senators 47 were in favour and 5 opposed. The reason for the adoption of the amendments, as you already have in the report you received, was the attempt to remedy the situation when the government sent two amendments to the Chamber of Deputies to the Act on Consumer Taxes, namely the press of the Chamber of Deputies Nos 208 and 215, and the Chamber of Deputies adapted to this without further adjustment. Although each of these amendments to the Consumer Tax Act dealt with in substance different issues and are politically sensitive topics, it cannot be imagined that this procedure should become a standard legislative procedure, as it could lead, among other things, to an absurd increase in amendments to individual laws. If we disregard the procedural aspect of such a procedure, then the situation of the two successive amendments to the same law, moreover submitted by the same appellant, establishes a state of indiscretion, both when examining proposals in Parliament and, above all, when applying the right of its addressees. For this reason, the Senate has taken over completely from Senate press number 326, the Chamber of Deputies' press number 215, the legislation of the so-called. Green diesel and incorporated it without change in the Senate press number 327, namely in the press of Chamber of Deputies number 208, and the draft law contained in Senate press number 326 logically then rejected. The legislation of so-called green diesel is intended to ensure, as soon as possible, the refund of excise duty on mineral oils to persons using these oils for primary agricultural production, provided that the risk associated with the possibility of tax evasion is minimised. In the next part of this amendment, the aim of the bill was to respond to the deteriorating exchange rate of the Czech koruna against the euro so that the excise duty rates for tobacco products correspond to the minimum amount of this tax in euro laid down in the European Union rules. In addition to the harmonisation of excise duties on tobacco products with European Union rules, the aim of the draft law was to ensure a high degree of protection of human health. For the above reasons, I ask you to support the bill as amended by the Senate's amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Senator. Now, as I said, Mr Okamura is duly enrolled in the debate. After that, with priority rights, Mr Fiala and then Mr Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u11	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, when I looked at this press, there is no way to oppose the reduction in excise duty for farmers, the so-called green diesel. Unlike the Prime Minister, however, like many colleagues from the parties to the government coalition, as turned out in the vote in June, we are convinced, along with many economic experts, that the so-called green, which means cheaper diesel, would deserve not only farmers, but all entrepreneurs, companies, businessmen and citizens. The Dawn Movement, of course, insists that we have voted in favour of reducing the price of diesel and petrol for all citizens of the Czech Republic. And as you know, this vote of ours was then overruled by the government coalition. In relation to the Czech consumer basket, to the real purchasing power, the price of fuel in our country is high, even in comparison with some neighbouring countries. Compare nominal prices with Austria or Germany really doesn't make sense, because the earnings of companies and citizens are in a completely different league than in the Czech Republic. And everyone knows that a high excise duty on fuel makes everything that a consumer, a pensioner or a businessman gets expensive every day. And it doesn't matter if it's a roll or a brick. I also have to look back, and I wanted to emphasise this, against the style and manner in which this law is being debated and pushed by the Chamber of Deputies and now the Senate. Today, critics of the stickers are easily labeled. And, of course, those who previously, and rightly speaking, complained in the Constitutional Court about violations of House procedures are now bending them to their own needs. That is why the second press was glued to this press, where it was excise duties on diesel and petrol, because the government coalition is afraid of any constitutional complaint that was announced here, only because of the failed vote by the government coalition in June, when - let me just remind you that the vote was not even called into question immediately after the vote, but then there was another vote on the law itself, even an hour after that there was a break. [[13.40 hours]] When I looked into the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the vote can only be called into question immediately - and I explained it here in June that no matter what the interpretation vocabulary of the Czech language I look at, it immediately means immediately. So just because of this, I would say, the failure of a part of the government coalition has further bent the principles that many of us have recently fought against, and these are stickers. The Dawn Movement, although, as I said, we definitely support green diesel for farmers, but not only that, but I will not repeat that, so for that reason, we will ultimately refrain from voting on this bill, because the Dawn movement will not change its views according to the current situation that suits us, but just as it was in the Service Act where we were the only ones who voted against it, the only political party still holds the line, why voters essentially elected us, that means depoliticizing the state administration in this case, so we are simply against the stickers. That means we'll be staying here in the case of this vote. And once again, not because we are against green diesel, we have already voted in favour in June, but because we are simply in principle against this way of bending procedures in the Chamber of Deputies. By the way, this is an age-old paradox of direct democracy throughout Europe, and even efforts to introduce a direct democracy, when opposition parties rolled by the government mostly fight for elements of direct democracy, and when they get into government benches or from election meetings to the Chamber of Deputies, they become its enemies, because they do not want to share much with anyone and at least with their voters and citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u12	Thank you. I have here one factual comment by Mr Votava. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I must clearly reject the words of my colleague Okamura that these are stickers. There is no way this is a sticker, because in both cases it is the same law, Law No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties. And this law includes excise duties on alcohol, on tobacco, on diesel. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Another party to the debate with priority rights is Mr Fiala, then Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is returning to us here a government amendment concerning the adjustment of excise duty on tobacco products, and it is no different from the version that has left the House for the Senate, but, as we have heard, the Senate has glued it unstandardly - and I am actually deliberately using that word - to other changes, the content of which is the reintroduce of green diesel. And the fact that these two things aren't related isn't something we're making up right now, but that's based on the argument that the government officials had when we were discussing these excise tax amendments separately here. We see this step as an obvious response from the Senate to the danger of a constitutional complaint if the original proposal to introduce green diesel was approved despite the very strange procedure that was elected here in the House. In other words, the Senators of Social Democracy are trying to save Members of Social Democracy who have acted unconstitutionally in their vote. We take this into account, and we understand that by acting as a social democracy, it clearly tells us that we were right, and we were right about this. I hope not only colleagues from social democracy see this, but also the public see it. We were right about this, and we're right about a lot of other things. We were right in saying that the Prime Minister is going to negotiate for the European Commissioner's post, that this is not going to end well. The result is very disadvantageous for the Czech Republic and it is the loss of the Prime Minister. And we were right about the service law, too, when we said that we were ready for constructive action, that we wanted to achieve a better law than the proposal was, and we finally achieved it. And as you see and show us by your actions, we were right about this, and you were wrong then. But to the nature of these novels. The government proposes - and so it has been approved here - an adjustment of excise duty on tobacco products, because the exchange rate of the Czech koruna has changed to the euro. We appreciate it and appreciate it when we discuss that part of our comments were reflected in the amendment. This concerns those traders who have supplies of cigarettes with old stamps in storage and would be unduly affected. However, we have also pointed out that the price increase of cheaper and more expensive cigarettes, foreign and actually domestic producers, has not been resolved by this demand for the same increase, and for these reasons we have also voted against this proposal, and that will not change this time either when it is returned from the Senate. But what is more important there now and what is the label there is, of course, green oil, that is, the government's intention to return excise duty to farmers who use mineral oils for primary agricultural production. Let me just remind you that in 2013 this option, that is, the so-called option. green diesel, only 58 percent of all our agricultural entrepreneurs have used. The citizens' democrats in the past have achieved the abolition of this unjustified advantage because we have been convinced and we continue to believe that green oil creates unequal market conditions and that it pays only to large agricultural entrepreneurs. We are in favour of increasing the competitiveness of our farmers in a different way and more fairly, and we have such a tool here. This needed a reduction in the excise duty on fuel for all, which is much more efficient, fairer and ultimately more advantageous for the state. And when I talk to private farmers, many of them tell me that this is not the kind of policy the state wants. They would much prefer that the State did not deform the market with these types of subsidies and various, as a result of discriminatory measures. And we, ladies and gentlemen, want and will listen to those for whom we have policies, defend the interests of small farmers, or also the interests of small farmers on which the traditions of the Czech countryside stand, and create conditions for them to do their job well. In our opinion, this amendment does not meet these conditions, so we did not support it and we will not support it from a factual point of view. And we will not support it either from a formal point of view, because in our view this combination of two unrelated amendments is probably a reasonable step in terms of the threat of a constitutional complaint, but in any case is a step in the incorrect and incorrect. So this novel will not have our support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for the floor. I took a tablet, I don't normally do it, but to quote from the log, not my words, but the Prime Minister's words. When we were discussing at first reading the House press 208 and 215, two amendments on excise taxes, and the opposition challenged that there are two laws instead of being one, the Prime Minister said to us: We had a debate on whether to bring those two standards together in the government, whether we were making changes to the Law on excise taxes, which require us to make changes to our obligations within the EU and on tobacco products, to include a change that is completely factually different from that, quite factually different, for the President of the Budget Committee through Vice-President Bartošek, and it concerns the re-imposition of green diesel, and we decided at the Government's meeting that these two proposals should be discussed separately, because we assumed, and unfortunately, we were wrong that the opposition here in the Chamber of Deputies is responsible, which will not block the discussion of the proposal, which is already so late. - I remind you that this bill was submitted to us by the government with a request for discussion already in the first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2. If we let this happen, you don't have a way out of this constitutional complaint, and you don't have a chance to push for green oil. - And the fact that the law is delayed is not the fault of this government, etc. I think, in fact, it's quite all right, because it's a completely different matter. These are not the words of opposition policy, they are the words of coalition policy, and even the Prime Minister himself. And now we're playing at it, and the ČSSD senators figured out that the government actually did it wrong, that the proposals weren't supposed to be two, but they were meant to be one. You deny the speech of the Prime Minister himself. And it's very simple. Either Prime Minister Sobotka was right about the first reading, and it was completely separate and it was good that there were two amendments, or the Prime Minister wasn't telling the truth, and the senators are right. I heard the President of the Senate say, well, that's completely wrong, and we're not gonna let that practice happen at the same time, so that there are two amendments to one law. You have to choose who wasn't telling the truth, whether the Prime Minister of the ČSSD or the President of the Senate of the ČSSD. We don't care, we didn't cause the chaos and the confusion. President Fiala has already said this, you have clearly admitted that the way you bent the Rules of Procedure here was a violation of the Constitution. And it's a good thing that you've admitted it and that we're not risking a constitutional complaint and that we're not risking the law being called into question. Now I don't want to say this, but I have to say both laws, or both amendments. Let's remember what happened. To dismay the majority of government Members, the proposal was made to reduce taxes on all citizens. The Minister of Finance here said that the state budget would be 14 billion, but we didn't see the study, but well, let's get out of this number that it's true, 14 billion. At the time it was horrible, catastrophic, we couldn't afford to lose 14 billion. Then the holidays began, the finance minister in his residence accepted as the cups on the clock by individual ministers, and one would expect that the finance minister would be Uncle Skrblík, who would not give them anything, which often declares how he would save - and behold, Uncle Skrblík acted like Ježíšek and the other ministers allocated 16 billion, which is 2 billion more than the expected blackout. If the tax had been reduced for everyone, but that would have been a disaster, but for 15 ministers, or 14, I don't know, when there's 16 billion, it's not a disaster, but it's a great thing. That's why we didn't originally vote for the law, because we all supported the reduction. I was expecting a debate, it has been months since then, if Mr Urban's proposal was not too ambitious, if the reduction was not too high, if it would not be more reasonable instead of 2.50 for diesel to propose CZK 1.30 for diesel, or just CZK 0.50 for petrol. These proposals were also submitted by our fellow Members in the Senate and rejected. And he's not gonna give it to me when the senator sits here so I don't mention it and describe it, I don't know if you all know how those two amendments were going in the Senate. Many senators have a legitimate feeling that there has been deliberate confusion and confusion in the vote. To push this trick, the Social Democrats, with the green diesel being poured into tobacco, will join one, so they have pushed and negotiated a majority on the Economic Committee and adopted a consensually, or by a large majority, amendment to the Economic Committee, which was tabled by the Senate plenary. And those who voted in favour of this proposal, especially those who were not ČSSD, expected this amendment to pass. See, the rapporteur, by chance, here, the senator, proposed a separate vote in the vote -- he has every right to do that, I do not doubt -- and the political agreement within the Senate Economic Committee has been made that only green oil has been added to tobacco and the other parts of the amendment have not passed. Again, it's legitimate that I'm not questioning it, I'm just adding it to the mosaic of how these two amendments are being promoted. Instead of going normally, factually, in case he made a mistake to admit to the mistake. We have proposed that, with the amendment adopted by Mr Urban, this law should be sent to the Senate and that the Senate majority may withdraw the amendment from it or not. It's been rejected, all standard procedures have been trampled here, and what hasn't happened in a few weeks. Basically the same thing, they just complicated it by joining two novels into one. We did not vote in favour of the amendments at the first vote, we refused to take part in the second vote, and we also voted against the second amendment, so it is no surprise that we will not support either the Senate version or the House version. In the future, I would ask government parties, especially social democracy, to deal with this when they mess up the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law, so that we do not have to commit such crookedness as joining two amendments into one in the Senate. We can admit that we will not assert our political opinion and lose the vote. That's perfectly normal. Each of us has an opinion, and most of us decide. However, it is very important for the rules to apply, for the majority to follow the rules. If that's the case, victory will be sweeter and our defeats will be better served. And I believe that, first of all, we will have to go back to tobacco within a year and a day, I think it is quite clear from the point of view of the course, and that in the next debate we will stop using arguments such as whether smoke is a social commodity, whether we should have social considerations. I believe that next time we will come back to this, that we will seriously deal with possible tax evasion on tobacco leaves and so on. And I believe that next time we will convince you and that our sensible amendments, which did not pass in the amendment on excise duty on tobacco - we did not propose anything to the other, just rejecting it - you will support it next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. I have one point of fact here. Her name is Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for the floor. Let's do it again. Yes, they're two different commodities. Their excise duty is solved by one law No. 353/2003 Coll., Mr Stanjuro, through the President. I don't see anything wrong with the government sending excise duty on tobacco and excise duty on diesel in two separate thousands. I don't see anything wrong with that. I don't see what's on the sticker or what's supposed to be an sticker, the amendment that the Senate gives under one law. Nor is there anything wrong with this from a legislative point of view. Yes, we can discuss this in the future, and that has already been discussed, whether the excise duty on various commodities such as alcohol, such as tobacco, such as diesel or fuel, should not each of these commodities have a separate law. Maybe it's for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for keeping time. And now with priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me, some of what I am about to say has already been said, and perhaps by other wordings, from President Stanjura, because we are obviously bothered by the same things. However, repetition is the mother of wisdom and it seems that not everyone still fully understands what we are discussing here. I will begin by telling President Okamur, through Mr President, that even if we vote in exactly the same way, we will vote out of completely different motives. He says he can't agree with the sticker. There's no way this can be a sticker. The sticker is a situation where a change in the rule of law from a completely different area is taped to the present law in the context of second reading or in the Senate. It's like we still have an amendment to the Funeral Law here on excise duty. Or as if, as part of the vote on the amendment on excise duty, we were proposing the abolition of the rendering law. For God's sake, the government coalition hasn't thought of it yet. I hope I'm not telling you. So that would be a sticker. The fact that, as part of one amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, we will vote in substance on two changes, not one, cannot mean an adhesive, but it is a textbook example of the incoherence and inability of the Prime Minister and his Minister of Finance. And now I'm just going to refer to the parliamentary debate that took place here when two amendments were tabled. I will admit that I have submitted dozens of amendments and I have never done this before, and I would consider it extraordinary arrogance to the Chamber of Deputies to present two separate amendments to the same law within one law. That never happened here. For the first time, you were the only one who did this, that you decided to amend the Consumer Tax Act by two separate parliamentary prints. That in itself is from a procedural point of view, I look away from the factual, procedural point of view nonsense and the Chamber of Deputies for arrogance. I took the liberty of saying it here at first reading. I even said if you're quite sure that you have order in your work and in your legislative plan, that no government has done this, that it is such a strange refreshment, that one law in the same term is being amended by two separate prints. Then he came forward, it's traceable in the stent, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and they explained to us that we didn't understand anything, that it's a new political style, that it's the new wind, and since it's two subjectively different topics, it's necessary that it's strictly necessary for two prints to discuss it. I would like to remind you that almost every recodification, almost every amendment to the law, has several substantive changes in it. Few just one. So if this were presented as one amendment that contains two relatively primitive and marginal changes, that would be perfectly fine and normal. But two were presented, and it was defended as the right path. The only way to talk about it and vote about it, and we finally know how to do it. We're gonna work. Why one novel, we'll have two. It was stupid, of course. But that argument was made here. Then there was an absolutely absurd, scandalous, undignified vote within the Chamber of Deputies and his - here I have to say, I say it, I do not want to attack everything completely headlessly, yes, there was no evil intention, there was just stupidity and incompetence. So, because of stupidity and incompetence, there was just some vote that brought about an absolutely undignified situation. You have failed to respond to this stupidity and inability to say we have made a mistake, let it be corrected, let it change, but your Prime Minister has made an arrogant statement that 17 Members of your party had no idea what they were voting on. Which is very strange, because we, who have been here for several years, know that the seventeen Members who, according to the Prime Minister, did not know what they were voting on, what they voted on for several years. They have presented this several times, they have advocated it several times, the Prime Minister supported it many times, then as chairman of social democracy, and they have tried fiercely to reduce the excise duty on fuel - not just from oil, Mr President of the Budget Committee, he is still there like gasoline. We'll make a deal. Thank you. - That's what they tried so hard to do, and of course they knew what they were voting for. Yet after an hour, they noticed that they were pushing the wrong button, and they did something extraordinarily undignified. They've done something that kids do in kindergarten that when they break someone else's toy, they can't say I'm sorry, we made a mistake, so let's just agree to make this mistake right in a transparent way. So after an hour, they discovered that they were pushing the wrong buttons, and their Prime Minister said that his members, who have public confidence, were certainly literal and have some degree of gray cortex, had no idea what they were voting for. That's what happened here. That it was beyond politeness, that it was beyond decent behavior, that it was spit on the political culture that some of you here call very often, we all saw. That's what the public saw. And you were worried about how to do this, because, as far as the Constitutional Court's findings cannot be foreseen, it was clear that, in addition to decency, dignity and normal conduct, it was beyond constitutionality and that the lawsuit against the Constitutional Court could not succeed. What the Senate has come to is quite an intelligent way to avoid this constitutional complaint. If this was given as a priority for this discussion, the Senate certainly succeeded and cannot file a constitutional complaint against an amendment that will undoubtedly be rejected. It can only be filed when it has entered into legal order. But what the Senate has decided on is a total negation of what the Prime Minister and his finance minister said in the spring. When I criticized, when I took the liberty of criticizing the outrage, the arrogance to the Chamber of Deputies, that it was within two novels, both of them told me how good it was to tell the Senate how good it was, that it wasn't two novels, but that it was one novel. In other words, your positions, colleagues from the government coalition, are changing as quickly as the complete failure of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is manifesting itself. He shows up all the time. So what you said in the spring is no longer true. At that time we could discuss it - they had to discuss it in two amendments. Today we're gonna approve this in one novel, because before we did this stupid thing, we're gonna replace it with another stupid thing. To some of you - excuse me, Mr. Sklenák yells at me from his desk for the third time. Some of you, my colleague, through Mr President, need to hear this ten more times. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] [[14.10 hours]] Yes. The amendment will undoubtedly be approved. It's in one novel, just as it's procedurally correct, because first of all there's green oil, and second of all, your incredible arrogance in the process of novels, so we're gonna stick around. Not because it's a sticker, there's no way it's a sticker. We disagree with green oil for principle reasons. I'm not gonna repeat the reasons, the Sklenák guy's gonna yell at me for saying that for the 20th time. We do not agree with the way you discussed these amendments here. That's why we're staying. We accept that this will probably be approved by your majority. Allow me to argue with President Stanjura's argument that all citizens could have been reduced by roughly 14 billion, and Uncle Skrblík, who did not appear to be Uncle Skrblík, but as Ježíšek, added 16 billion when he earlier protested the decline in consumer oil. In mathematical terms, it's true. I would like to add two comments. First, the comparison with Uncle Skrblík with Ježíšek limps. Both of these characters come from a free democratic perception of the world. The Minister of Finance comes from somewhere else. It is not Santa Ježíšek or Skrblík, it is a populist and former communist who focuses on making no relief in any way planned, perhaps even voted, possible, which I would perhaps accept as Uncle Skrblík if it were used to reduce the deficit. But he wants to use it to hand out the gifts that President Stanjura here spoke of at least 16 billion. I'm afraid, and we'll be exhibiting that bill in a few weeks, the amount will be infinitely higher. I am making it quite clear here that the TOP 09 programme should be known: we do not agree with reducing consumption taxation. Taxes on consumption are excise duties and VAT. For VAT, we do not agree with the reduction below that limit, which is to enter into force on 1. 1. 2016 and which you want to postpone, and you want to increase those taxes. What we considered necessary is that consumption taxation should not fall in 2015, but that, after the entire company's costs have exceeded the need to restore public finances in a time of crisis, it may be a relief in the cost of a job, that is, in direct contributions. There is still less than 15 billion reduction in this levy burden in the current legal order. We can have a discussion about details, if it's more beneficial for businessmen, families. Okay. The government didn't have to agree to it, and it could have parametrically modified it any other way. The problem is that the government does not regulate this in any way and leaves the amount of taxation. The reward that everyone was supposed to receive after overcoming the crisis for a lower tax burden is being eliminated by the Minister of Finance. The dramatically increased, the dramatically criticised, temporarily increased rate of taxation remains forever, not to reduce the structural deficit, but to be able to spend it on your gifts, on your subsidies. And what brought me to a smile at the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets was the argument that the higher spending, it would not be consumption, it would be responsible funding. Colleagues, colleagues, I have only just begun to analyse the draft state budget submitted by the finance minister to the government, so the exact figures will only be heard in a few days, weeks, maybe it will be fair to say them when the government has finally decided on them, but I know one thing for sure. What they will do at the expense of these increased expenditures will be investment. The most they can do is improve their wages, social benefits, operating expenses, all the things where you promised to save, and at least improve your investment. I'm sure of it. In this view, I would even accept the reduction in excise duty, however much I disagree with it, I would rather reduce the contributions on the job, but you do not want to reduce anywhere else at all. You all the steps that were necessary to restore the public budgets that you were yelling about were errors - I have heard President Sobotka say at least five times in this House how it is necessary to reduce excise duty on fuel, as Minister of Finance Kalousek is completely boarded up, that he does not want to reduce it, because we all know that we would have chosen more on it. I heard the then president of the ANO movement say that we entrepreneurs know how stupid that government is that it does not want to reduce the taxation of consumer goods. I continue to insist that excise duty should not be reduced. That direct contributions should be reduced, that performance and creativity should be less punished. But you do not want to reduce the excise duty, and today, in the legal order, you want to cancel the direct levy. To repeat this once again: You want to cancel the reduction of direct contributions by less than 15 billion so that ministers can take away their 16 billion-dollar gifts from kramářův's villa. This is your extraordinarily irresponsible budgetary policy, and in addition to an extremely irresponsible budgetary policy, you have also shown that you are completely incapable of discussing the law in such a way that you have no shame at all. It's your shame, it's your incompetence, and we're not gonna be a part of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u22	Thank you to President Kalousek. I also have two factual points. First of all, the President of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I must turn against how President Kalousek described the course of the first reading here. It is true that there has been a question as to why the government is sending an amendment to a law in two thousand, but of course it has been answered, and unfortunately the quote was not given by President Kalousek. It was clearly explained here that, as far as the regulation of excise duty on tobacco is concerned, it is harmonisation with European Union law and it is essential that this law be published in the Collection of Laws by 30. 9. That is why, by the way, this meeting is being convened so that we can still send the President to be published in the Collection of Laws. And it was proposed in § 90 para. 2 and we assumed that the veto would not be raised, so this novel would go through one reading. And the second thing is green oil, and it's going to pass, and that's where we assumed the veto, the whole process. Of course, after you brought in both standards and the Senate discussed them at the same time, it's no wonder the senators sent it to us in one press. It is undoubtedly the right procedure, because I think it is not entirely legislatively clean for two amendments of one law to be published in the Collection of Laws in one day. So the procedure is logical with regard to the government as well as with regard to the Senate, and it has been explained here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the point of fact, Mr Sklenák. Next, I have three factual points. Mr Petr Adam, Mr Laudát after him, Mr Stanjura after him, Mr Kalousek after him. Mr Petr Adam does not want, so Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. The Member prefers Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u25	I thank my colleague Laudát. I just wanted to respond to Mr Sklenák, a colleague of the President of the club, through the President. You're trying nicely. Hat off. It's very loyal. You do what you do, but it's not credible at all. You know very well that if the tobacco happens to pass through 90, today you are in a shambles with your own procedural incompetence and the way in which you voted on the excise duty on fuel, you are with your whole amendment and before the Constitutional Court is lifted. So you're criticizing us here for putting you in the 90's, and then you grabbed it like a lifesaver to avoid a constitutional complaint. I repeat once again: because of its own total procedural incompetence, which began with the incompetence of your Presidents when they decided to discuss one law in two separate amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u26	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u27	President Sklenák, as usual, has found the culprit and is an opposition. So I just want to remind him about the board, about the 90th: See how many socially democratic Members have tabled amendments to this excellent government proposal that we should have approved here at first reading. Mr Koskuba, Mr Rykala, Mr Urban, I remembered this as I did at random. [[unintelligible]] Dozens of amendments from your own ranks fell during the discussion of this great press. So now Miroslav Kalousek said it exactly: we saved you. You don't want to. I'm not saying we wanted to save you. We had no idea what you were going to do with the vote on excise duty on diesel and petrol. Of course, we couldn't have known that the moment we gave the veto. The vetoes are perfectly justified. The course of discussion, your very frequent attempts by your own Members to improve those government laws give us the truth today and every day, repeatedly. Look back at the shape of the government's proposals that were to go in the '90s, which we then brought in. And how many changes have you made? For example, you postponed the obligation to pay compensation to passengers for delaying the train by five years. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been possible when the '90s passed. And I could name one law after another, which you want to approve in low-quality form in the '90s. The opposition gives you a chance to correct your own mistakes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u28	I thank Mr Stanjur. With another point of fact, Mr Kalousek, Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u29	Oh, gross! Mr Stanjuro, through Mr President. I'm sorry, but now it's been unfair. How can you propose to Members of Social Democracy their amendments to the amendment, where no amendments should have been made when they did not even know what they were voting on? If they didn't know what they were voting for, logically, they couldn't even know what they were proposing. Of course, I would never dare say this, but the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic say so, so it will probably be, and it is quite unfair to remind them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u30	I thank Mr Kalousek. The last point of fact so far, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I knew the outcome of the vote on Mr Urban's amendment, so I don't know. And knowing that, I assume they know how it's gonna turn out, even those who voted for it/didn't vote for it. So I would certainly not underestimate Members of Social Democracy, I do not consider that human. However, it points to something else. I'll try to look at it with a citizen's eyes. It didn't say anything. Minister Babiš has said many times that environmental stability, tax stability, predictability of decision making are needed. So what you did in that trial, because I'm not applying for it anymore, unlike the first one. On Wednesday, the House gave hope to drivers and other consumers of fuel, where it belongs, I would make a nasty remark against one of the previous speakers, as well as oil. Hope for a discount. On Friday, the House mostly - which I do not apply to - said: We will not discount you. And on Monday, the Ministry of Finance leaked information about the longer-term attempt to sell out the state's strategic reserves, that it would actually need to get more expensive. So we're gonna go cheap on Wednesday, we're not gonna go cheap on Friday, and we're gonna go up on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u32	I thank Mr Laudát. Before we move on, I have apologies. First of all, Mr Jiří Holeček apologizes today from 14:00 for work reasons. Mr Šrámek also apologizes today from 14:00 for reasons of work, and Mrs Hnyková also apologizes today from 15.15 on account of negotiations and business trips. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, which is why if no one reports, I'm done with the debate. I ask the appellant's final words, if any, to the rapporteur. Not interested. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, pursuant to House press 208/4, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 208/5.' There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the resolution as I have put it. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of adopting the bill in a version approved by the Senate, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number four. 138 Members and Members are registered, for it is 100, against 10. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. I thank the Minister and the Senator. I now have a request from Mrs Chalánková, who, with priority rights as Vice-President of the TOP 09 and the starosta, wants to speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor of priority. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to address you with a few sentences, but I do not think they will be able to stand a delay. Some time ago I informed you all about the fate of the Czech children David and Denis Michalákův, who have been in foster care in Norway for three years. I happen to have been informed by chance that the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Hamáček, and Mrs Váhalová, are flying to Norway for a business visit tomorrow. I wanted to ask them whether it would be possible for them to make use of the various negotiations in Norway, as well as for these children, to take advantage of all their diplomatic options and activities during this business trip and to really resolve the fate and return of these Czech minors Denis and David Michalákův to their mother and to the Czech Republic as soon as possible. They are all Czech citizens. So, once again, I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the Member to use all diplomatic possibilities in this journey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. The President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček, came forward with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. I have fulfilled what I promised here during the interview, and in cooperation with Mrs Chalánková, I sent a letter to my counterpart, President of Storting, where I informed him very in detail about the entire case, and received his reply a few days ago. So, of course, I will hand over a copy of the reply to Mrs Chalánková. At the same time, I want to promise and inform you that I have already asked for a bilateral meeting with the President of the Norwegian Parliament during my visit to Oslo, and I will, of course, also open this topic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-001-001.u36	I thank the President for his speech and his activity. Now we're going to look at point number
