ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u1	30. Mr Petr Fiala's proposal and others for the law amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended /German press 146/ - first reading The Government's Opinion was delivered Chamber of Deputies as House press 146/1. I will ask Mr Václav Votava, who is the rapporteur, to take the position at the rapporteur's table, and Mr Petr Fiala's representatives will take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the good proposal of the Civil Democratic Party, which we want to strengthen the independence of the so-called financial intelligence, the Financial Analytical Service at the Ministry of Finance. Formally, as you can see on the board, it's about changing Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism. Greater independence of the Financial Analysis Unit, which legalizes or monitors events and cash flows in the Czech economy and politics, we want to achieve by creating better conditions for it, and we will create better conditions for it in two ways in particular. Firstly, we propose that the Director of the Financial Analytical Service appoint and refer to the Government as a collective body on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. So far, as you know, this director will be appointed by the Minister of Finance himself. Our proposal otherwise preserves the existing arrangement where the Financial Analysis Service is the Department of the Ministry of Finance. The FAO, as you probably also know, is investigating suspicious financial transactions and has quite extensive powers and, above all, has very valuable information. The unit is also part of an international network of financial intelligence agents to prevent money laundering or to cover terrorist financing. It also plays an important role in the detection of tax evasion. Of course, the Minister of Finance has access to this information, under whose control the department falls. In order that there is no clear abuse or unilateral use of this information, the entire government should be responsible for the appointment and removal of the Director of this department. The second concrete step that we want to help improve the activities of the Financial Analytical Service is that the Chamber of Deputies establish a separate supervisory body for the supervision of the activities of the Financial Analytical Service, as is the case with the control of intelligence services, such as the Security Information Service or Military Intelligence. According to our proposal, this supervisory authority would consist of seven members. Only a Member of the Chamber of Deputies could be a member of the supervisory body, and as you may suspect, there is no need to change the wording of any other law. Let me remind you that a similar proposal was made by the Civil Democratic Party in the past period as a government proposal, but given the fall of the government and the dissolution of the House, it was no longer possible to discuss it. So it's not in any way a purpose change, it's not the first time we've dealt with this, it's a systemic change, it's not a one-off measure. [[17.20 hours]] But I do not deny it, I really do not deny that our proposal is also a chance for Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, because we offer him a way to resolve his permanent conflict of interest, in which he finds himself as Minister of Finance and as the owner of one of the largest private companies in the Czech Republic at the same time. I mean, we have already acted with this systemic measure in the past, but we now consider it even more up-to-date in view of the current situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister Sobotka's government has stated its disagreement in discussing our proposal and has expressed two main criticisms. The first complaint was that the proposal does not address the issue in the context of other provisions of the law and does not comply with the current amendment to the Service Act. The second complaint was that our proposal does not define what activities of the Financial Analysis Unit are to be controlled. I don't think any of these complaints are too serious. As for the first, it must be noted that the government's proposal for a service law, which the government would like to apply to our proposal, is constantly changing and is a bit inconspicuous, and also if we wanted to, we are not able to bring our proposal into line with this. But we do not think that this is an insurmountable thing, surely there will be room for this in committee negotiations, and if the government keeps its promise and invites the opposition to negotiate the service law, then we can also talk about this harmony. With regard to the second criticism of the Government, I would like to remind you that other supervisory bodies in the House, such as BIS or Military Intelligence, do not have a precise scope of activity. But again, even this is a matter that we are ready to discuss, and we are ready to define more clearly the purpose and method of control. This is precisely what I consider to be the kind of complaint that can be clarified between first and second readings in the framework of discussions and committee discussions. Ladies and gentlemen, with this justification, I ask you to release the law for second reading and to have it under discussion on the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u3	I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs Petr Fial and ask the rapporteur Václav Votava to take up his report. Please, you have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Yes, I will take my role as rapporteur. I think that Mr Fiala here has explained in detail what led them to write this parliamentary proposal, which addresses the position and control of the Financial Analytical Service, which belongs to the organisational structure of the Ministry of Finance. They refer, of course, to the fact that there are some comments about possible political abuse, his task, the handling of the results of his investigation, given that I have already said that he belongs directly to the organisational structure of the Ministry of Finance. I'm getting so much from the explanatory note. The supervisory authority of the legislative authority is proposed here, i.e. The Chamber of Deputies, the position of this body, this commission, therefore refers to the control of, for example, intelligence services, Security Information Services, Military Intelligence. I would like to say that in my time, I think it was in the fourth term, some similar body, and it was a subcommittee, it was set up and it was just a subcommittee of the Committee on Budgets. It was called a subcommittee of the Budget Committee on State Assets and Liabilities and the activities of the Financial Analytical Service, which had the following agenda - on the one hand, the financing of state debt, financial instruments, the structure of the management of ongoing financing, maturity, risk predictions, the price of the government debt operator, then in the agenda of the State's debt management in the country and abroad, non-tax payments, their structure by type of tax and region, contributions, and thirdly, the activity of the Financial Analytical Service, which is therefore under the Ministry of Finance. Just for the record, I might repeat some of the reasons that led the government to disagree with this bill. First, the Government noted that the proposed intervention in Law No. 253/2008 Sb. it's unsystemic. The proposed solution, according to which the law would regulate the internal circumstances of the Ministry of Finance, is considered inappropriate by the government. The financial analytical department is legally part of the Ministry of Finance and the proposed law does not address its greater independence, or perhaps even its autonomy. Furthermore, the Government pointed out that at present the Chamber of Deputies under discussion in the amendment to the Service Act - this proposal does not reflect at all. The director of the FAÚ is the director of one of the departments of the Ministry of Finance, his appointment and dismissal will therefore be dealt with in the service law system. The Government also points out that the control of the activities of the Financial Analytical Service is non-systemic and non-specific, since the proposal does not define at all what activities of the FAO are to be controlled. The scope of the activities of the Financial Analysis Unit is so broad that it would be necessary to define the purpose and method of control more clearly. The Government also considers that the proposed authorisation of the Prime Minister or a member of his/her mandate to exonerate persons from the obligation of confidentiality is also non-systemic. In line with its programming statement, the Government intends to address the issue and therefore has included a proposal for an amendment amending Law No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism. The Act will be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in the first half of 2015. So I quote so much from the relatively comprehensive opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic on this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. Yes, Mr Ivan Gabal is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u6	Thank you. I would not like this to be seen as a complete disagreement or criticism of the proposal, because I am one of those who recommended a paragraph in the coalition agreement, which is there, the need to reform the FAO, because in terms of who will appoint the director and control the results, and because, on the one hand, during the previous period in connection with the PROMOPRO case, the financial analytical unit has been used for political struggle, the Financial Analytical Service has access to a huge amount of information on financial transfers and mediates services to the police in terms of bank accounts, etc. Therefore, the entire development of the situation is also dependent on whether or not the bank account register will be implemented. So in this respect, I would agree with the plaintiff that there is a need to transfer powers and transfer control either under the Prime Minister or directly under the government and link the matter to other anti-corruption measures such as the account register. [[17.30 hours]] Where I have a little doubt, and that is why I suggested that we wait for a government proposal and have a debate on this matter before, is whether to set up the supervisory committee and de facto the FAO to put it in a position of intelligence. Because it is currently an executive tool that does not function autonomously and which reports and can, in principle, investigate from the point of view of financial analysis. Intelligence services do not investigate from this point of view. So it seems to me that the proposal is somewhat under-distorted, and so is the definition of the powers of what should be controlled by the Financial Analysis Service. From Parliament's point of view, it would be necessary here, because then either they don't provide the information and they don't know what's under control, and the supervisory authority doesn't really know what to go after. And since the FAO is now rather part of the executive, it seems to me that executive control is more effective for the purpose of combating money laundering and terrorism, because it is an executive tool. Of course, I see that there is no control of the opposition and that the parliamentary committee could help to do so. But for that reason, I would argue really if the government is committed to giving the bill in the first half of next year to wait for it and to lead the debate on this issue in the preparation of the law. It is a very serious procedure, and because the FAO was created, what has been said, as part of the international network and activities of the FAO also affects to some extent the activities of similar organisations in other countries in the European Union, but also overseas, etc., and it is quite unique from the point of view of the information and information that the organisation works with. So I was recommending at the club that we do not support the proposal, but I would like the petitioner to know that I agree with a substantial part of his objections and recommendations, and I will support it if there is a government proposal for him to be involved in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u7	Have a good evening. I thank Mr Gabal. With another proper application, Mr Ondráček is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u8	So thank you, Mr. Control. My colleague, colleagues, I read with interest the draft of Members from the ODS and I was quite amused by the expression of the petitioner that the ODS wanted to check on its coalition partner Miroslav Kalousek since the time they ruled together. I see the whole proposal, although it has been explained to us how it is not purposeful, quite as purposeful. It is precisely for the Financial Analysis Service to be controlled, or the Director appointed by the Minister of Finance, to be controlled. After studying the proposal, I believe that The financial analytical service also works quite well under current legislation, which is also seen in the amount or number of criminal notifications that - or knowledge of the infringement that has arisen in recent years. In general, we might agree with the proposed amendment, but, as it has been said, we have here the Service Act that we are discussing, and we would do so that the Financial Analysis Service, one of the Departments of the Ministry of Finance, actually separate it somewhere else and maybe make it some other secret service or something else. As far as controls are concerned, I do not think that the Financial Analysis Service needs to be checked in the same way as the Security Information Service or the General Inspection of Security Corps or Military Defence Intelligence. So I suggest that the motion be dismissed from the hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u9	I thank Mr Ondráček, I ask if I should take this as a motion for rejection. Yes, that's right. Thank you. Another duly registered priority right is Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask that we, when discussing this point, if we want the authorities of this type to work as standard, professionally, without emotions, so very much ask that we, too, be free of emotion. I am very grateful to colleagues from ODS that in principle they did nothing but highlight the time priority of the law, which was once put before the government by the Minister of Finance Kalousek, the government presented it to the Chamber of Deputies, and since the Chamber of Deputies dissolved, the law was not discussed, colleagues from ODS who felt that the proposal was good, so they revived it with this parliamentary proposal. Originally, please, it was a government proposal. And to finish the whole history, the government's proposal was primarily at the imploring request of the Financial Analysis Service. A unit that is sometimes in the newspapers, in the Chamber of Deputies, and in conversations between politicians, surrounded by a whole series of dark stories and mysteries, as if we were talking about the magician Merlin. Honestly, he's actually 28 analysts. Twenty-eight well-trained analysts sitting in top-class technology, who, in addition to having the right to request some confidential information, which is about 3%, mainly use public resources in our country and in the world. Again, 28 analysts. Šlachtův's unit has about 350 analysts to realize the differences. And the 28 analysts of the Ministry of Finance who work not under the law of the police, not under the law of the BIS, not under the law of the intelligence services, work under one single law, that is a law which is laborally called the law against money laundering, and it is the implementation of the Council regulation, it is the law of the European Union, therefore there is relatively wide international cooperation. They really are an extraordinary department of the Ministry of Finance. One of my previous speakers said that he would hate for one of the Finance Departments to be special here, but frankly, there is no other way when that one Finance Department is part of the law against money laundering, which is the implementation of European Union standards. In a smaller part of the countries of the European Union, these services are either separate or part of the State Prosecutorship where the State Prosecutor is. In most of the European Union, these services are part of the Ministry of Finance, and they are always very small competent executives with no powers within the meaning of law enforcement authorities, but with relatively significant competence and intelligence powers, and then transmit the information to the financial service, customs service and law enforcement authorities where necessary. This is the case in all countries of the European Union. And because here from a certain point of time - once again maybe it would be necessary to remind you that this has been the case since 1996. In 1996, on the basis of our international commitments, this law was passed and it was established. Then followed by a period of opposition agreement, then followed by a period of social democracy, followed by a period where these very well-paid and secret places were political newsrooms, there were people who couldn't do anything, and because they couldn't do anything and didn't do anything, they didn't bother anyone either. From 1996 to 2007 - I dare say, eleven years! - the public and the Czech political scene didn't know that there was any Financial Analysis Service, because he existed by law, we paid 28 analysts there, but they were mostly social democracies who couldn't do anything, they weren't dangerous at all, so they just didn't interfere with anyone, so no one knew that this unit existed at all. [[17.40 hours]] In 2007, I took the liberty of a fundamental personnel and technical replacement of this department, and it began to work. The moment he started working, he freaked everyone out. Just by starting to work, that's all. It should continue to work. And because he scared everyone, and because after eleven years of doing nothing under the curate of social democracy, the department is now personnelly prepared, no matter how much his boss has left him, the personnel competence that's there, even the technical equipment that I've decided to invest in, and I stress that she's returned a thousand times, so there is, in addition to objective social benefits, awes. A terror that has no other reason than ignorance. And that bothered the analysts and the unit at one point, and me. And that is why we said: If you feel, ladies and gentlemen, that we are doing something that we are not supposed to do there, then let not the chief name the finance minister, so that someone does not feel that it is the intelligence service of that one person. Let the government appoint him. And let's set up the same oversight committee as we have for BIS or Military Defense Intelligence to control this department. The bottom line here is that we don't have one of those messes yet, but that's out of the question. And I'm applying to this today, just as I claimed it when I put this proposal before the government. The department is competent, the department is impartial. The formation never served those or those interests. The unit just scared everyone by being operational. But an operational intelligence service requires its political control. No, I don't think so. At a time when he was unacceptable under Social Democrats, no one had to control him, because when something is unacceptable, it's not dangerous and we don't have to control it. It's operational today. A competent body of this type always demands its social and political control, which is why I highly recommend it is nothing against the House... And I assure you, the people in the Financial Analysis Unit want it. They want it, they don't want to be demons. They want to be servants of their state. And there is nothing against it, and it will be right that the Chamber of Deputies will set up its control committee over them, which will control their activities, and if the boss is not appointed one, perhaps in that moment a paronoia affected - I do not say that it must be, but that risk cannot be ruled out - one minister, a member of the government, but the whole government. That is the whole point of this proposal. The proposal is correct, it is in favour of democracy. We can discuss his possible modifications at second reading, but the basic idea is correct. A competent, actionable, analytical intelligence agency will submit political control to serve the Czech Republic and nothing else. The proposal is good, and I ask that we deal with it at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u11	I thank the President of the TOP 09 and the starosta. Sorry, first of all, with a factual point, Mr Zlatuška came forward from his post, followed with priority rights by the President of the ODS MEP and then by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u12	Mr President, as I listened to the former Minister Kalousek here, I would like to remind you that at the time he mentioned that he wanted to submit to government decisions, for example, so that he remembered that the government he was sitting in did not have any difficulty going beyond the law in the various appointments. Let us remember, for example, how the Research, Development and Innovation Council was legally appointed. And it's probably against the law because it was about the billions. And I'd also like to remind you that the lady who was in charge of all this, if I'm not mistaken, she's already the defendant, isn't she? And it's these mechanisms that didn't work there. If it's submitted to the government today, it'll probably look better, these defects won't be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u13	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With a factual remark from Mr Kalousek, Mr Ondráček, with a factual comment from Mr Ondráček. [[The rapporteur, Mr Votava, reminds the President that he is also reporting.]] Mr rapporteur, if you please give your opinion, you will take precedence. I respect the order laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u14	Thank you. Just a brief response to Mr Zlatuška. Really just a fool who underestimates our intelligence will use the term "the lady who ran everything there" because he's scared and he's a political coward to say how it really was here, and how he thinks it was. He's gonna make a detour like this, so we can figure out within his intelligence and cowardice how big he is. First of all. Two. I am really just saying that this proposal does nothing but subject this competent analytical body to political control. You're the political control. You don't want to control it? At the time, I granted the wishes of those intelligence people who said to me, "I beg you, if they don't trust us, let them set up a supervisory committee over us." We'll be lucky if they control us. Nothing else is the purpose of this proposal - the trust of the democratic institution of the Chamber of Deputies in another democratic institution established by the Law on Money Laundering - that we have the right to control them. It's what they want. You don't want this? You don't want to control them? You really want only Babiš to control them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u15	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another factual remark, Mr Ondráček, then, if he wants a factual comment, the rapporteur. [[He does.]] Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u16	Exactly what was said: 28 analysts who worked without teeth, under the leadership of the former finance minister began to work, became analytics with teeth, and began to show us that they can work too. And then we need to give them a political straitjacket so that they don't happen to be able to do anything. That's the way it is. Because I don't want to control them, at least in this form. For me, the result of their work is important. And I think there are other ways we can control them than to set up another board to control the Financial Analysis Unit. Let us decide ourselves by voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u17	I thank Mr Ondráček. With a factual point by the rapporteur, with a factual point by Mr Kalousek. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, yes, I think two minutes will suffice. I'd like to respond to my colleague Kalousek. As much as I can imagine a certain control of the parliamentary body - after all, I did so in 2004 when there was a subcommittee on the Committee on Budgets. I was also in the Committee on Budgets then, and I also raised my hand to establish this subcommittee, and it was under the rule of social democracy, if I am not mistaken and I am certainly not mistaken. There's another term - and here we go. And that was my colleague Kalousek, then the Minister of Finance. And this subcommittee has never set up again. And there was a representation of what was here, a representation made of ODS, etc. [[17.50 hours]] So I think it's pretty likable. In addition, why was Kalousek not so much in control in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, but until 2013, until the end of the parliamentary term? That's also pretty spicy. Wasn't there any other interest? And to say today that the analysts wanted it, I don't know if that's what the analysts wanted. But if my colleague Kalousek says so, I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u19	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then three more factual points. First, Mr Kalousek. After that, Mr. Štětina, Mr. Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u20	Thank you. First to Mr Ondráček, then to Mr Votav. Mr Ondráček, perhaps you were still quite young at the time, but one of the greatest achievements of November 1989, which we of our age perceived, was the fact that repressive forces, i.e. intelligence and police, were once again under political control for decades. If you're saying you don't want political control today, you're kind of rejecting November 1989. Because the fact that these files will be under political control is one of the basic conditions of our freedom, albeit stupid gynecologists laugh stupidly. First of all. Two. What Mr Votava said, and that the Chief of the Financial Analytical Service would appoint a government, and that a commission would be set up for this, was in the coalition agreement of 2010 on my proposal. I tabled the proposal in 2012 and I am simply convinced that this is the right thing to do, because there is political control over this department. And I repeat, the formation has existed here since 1996. He was responsible for social democracy for 11 years, and for 11 years, no one needed to control him, because this unit did nothing objectively and did nothing but incompetent, stupid and lazy social democracies with whom social democracy could no longer do anything but put Slávek Sobotka in the Financial Analysis Unit. That's why this unit wasn't at all dangerous and there was no need to control it. It was only at the time that professionals got there in 2007 that he began to work as the 1996 Law, which was 11 years ago, assumed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another with a factual remark, Mr Štětina. After that, Mr Stanjura, Mr Ondráček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u22	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I don't know if I should shed a tear here, that there is a brilliant idea to reform the Financial Analysis Service. I ask what was the reason why this reform was no longer done in the previous parliamentary term, because I am not counting the transitional period on something standard. I'm far from insulting anyone from the right or the left, who's to blame or whether the analysts at the Financial Analysis Unit are capable or incompetent. It really doesn't belong to me. But I'm asking how it is possible that we didn't deal with this in 2010, when I was still a coalition partner. Then I wasn't. And that we suddenly have a big problem, and especially when we learned that the former director of this department probably wasn't the right nut. I believe that when the government has promised to prepare an amendment to this law, let it do so. I will certainly not support this proposal. Not that there's no need. It is necessary, but of course it needs to be polite and objective, which was not in the previous period. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u23	Thank you, Mr Štětin. In addition to the factual remark made by Mr Stanjura. After that, Mr Ondráček, then Mr Kalousek, then Mrs Černochová and then Mr Gabal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u24	Thank you. It's a bit of a confused debate when the opposition MP is here defending the government. I don't see why not. The worst are those who sign something, don't read it, and after four years they wonder. Dear colleague Štětina, through the Vice-President, read the coalition agreement you signed and voted for as a coalition MP at the time. That's where it is. You're four years late, you signed, you didn't read it. I'm bohužel so. To debate. I don't know why we're debating the qualities of the FAO, why we're debating our colleague Miroslav Kalousek. It is our proposal and only two matters are being dealt with - that the Director should be appointed by the Minister after discussion in the Government or appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister and that we should set up a parliamentary body. I'm not surprised that the November 17 thug, Comrade VB, or whatever his name is, doesn't feel the need to control repressive files. Maybe you do. But the one who beat young students then logically must be convinced that it is terrible that someone is controlling him and that someone blames him for defending the socialist establishment so valiantly. I'm not surprised. And the debate, whether it was sooner or later. Okay, it's later. If the House had not been dissolved, it was approved in the last parliamentary term, and I would say, with the agreement of the then opposition. We didn't do anything complicated. The government didn't have it in its program. She didn't have it in her legislative work plan, which you've been discussing for so long, and then you put him on display. And it wasn't until we filed the bill that you came up with - but I've said it three times in this meeting, I understand - that the government will come up with its own, better, more complex, more systemic. We have the opposition window today. There's, like, nine bills here. If you read all the government's rejections, there's always "we'll come up with our own, better, systems" in there. Why not? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] But in the details, you could work with us, maybe debate between first and second readings. Then I'll come forward again, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u25	Yes, you're constantly logged in again. I'm registering your priority right. Thank you. Another with the factual remark of Mr Ondráček, after which Mr Kalousek, Mrs Černochová and two others. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u26	A typical example of our parliamentary democracy, where we went after 25 years. Personal attacks and anti-communism are taking place where opposition right-wing Members face arguments. Well, you don't have your own program, so go ahead and attack. If you need any information about me, see if I really stepped in on November 17th. Let's get back to the law. What Mr Kalousek said, through Mr President, if the department was toothless, there is no need for us to check on it. Well, perhaps we could also cancel the GIBS Audit Committee and perhaps the entire GIBS, because, through Mr President, you have decimated the entire police force and perhaps the security forces with your financial measures. So why control them when they're almost toothless these days?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u27	I thank Mr Ondráček. Mr Kalousek, please. After him, Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u28	Sorry, I don't want to hold up. I have therefore applied, in respect of the age difference that divides us, to reply to Dr. Mr. Štětin, who said how it is possible that we did not notice this earlier, how it is possible that we are only dealing with this now. Doctor, through Mr President, you were a very close associate of Vítek Bárta and a member of Public Affairs and a member of the Public Affairs Club. We noticed this in 2010 and in 2010 we put Mr. John, Mr. Bárta, Mr. Kalousek, Mr. Schwarzenberg, Mr. Nečas, Mr. Tluchoř, Mr. Stanjura in a coalition agreement that the Financial Analysis Service would be controlled by the commission set up by this Chamber of Deputies and that his boss would be appointed by the government. It's 2010 and you were part of the deal. It's hard to see how that's possible now. On the basis of this coalition agreement, which has been written in this way, I have passed the law and our analysts wanted it. So it was nothing but a common political will based on what we noticed back in 2010. [[18.00 hours]] The question is simple. Colleagues, the Chamber of Deputies has a function not only of legislative but also of control. You really want to resign from that checkpoint? You don't want her? In the spirit of that communist thug who spoke in front of me, who I don't give a damn whether she was in Wenceslas Square or not, because he was just a communist cop and I can't take his opinions seriously?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u29	With another factual remark by Mrs Černochová, Mr Gabal, Mr Urban, Mr Fichtner, Mr Stanjura and Mr Štětina. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u30	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would perhaps remind my colleagues from the former Public Affairs that in 2011, when he was chairman of the Security Committee, and I think that Mr Radek John was also the Interior Minister at that time, so we had an invitation to the Security Committee both to the Minister of Finance Kalousek and to the Director Cícer, who presented us with a proposal on the Safety Committee in 2011. I, as rapporteur, was then assigned to submit something to the Security Committee for the next, which I did. And then it actually got into that legislative process at the end of 2012, and in 2013, the government just fell. So it is not true that the government coalition has not dealt with this issue in the last parliamentary term. And unfortunately, the government fell because of the collapse of Public Affairs, which argued among themselves in such a way that our original government coalition was greatly weakened. So I'd just like very much not to use sentences here that aren't true that someone from the government coalition didn't pay attention to this problem, this thesis. He did, and you can all look up the footage from the then Security Committee, where we had it, I'm guessing a two-hour discussion, which concluded with some outcome that was gradually coming into the legislative process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u31	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr Gabal, with a factual point. After that, Mr Urban, Fichtner, Stanjura, Štětina, Filip and Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u32	I'll just fill in some factual information for President Stanjura. It's in the coalition agreement of the current coalition, I pushed it myself, so it's not an unknown problem. Secondly, on the Margo of President Kalousek's rather harsh critical words, I would like to say that the FAO was of considerable importance after the September 11 terrorist attacks, when it began to monitor the flow of financial money for potential terrorists. And I don't think there were any results. He was involved in an international network that did this thing. And there were, I think, some significant detentions of money in the tunneling of privatization. The problem that arose was the abolition of the financial police, when the FAO lost a partner who would effectively implement its findings. And by the way, Mr. Cícer, appointed by Minister Kalousek on the last day before the official government, First Prime Minister Fischer, was originally from the financial police. And let me make one more comment on the efforts of the last coalition. Most people will remember that for the first and last time she saw a director of the FAO, a man named Cícer, when he performed alongside the finance minister when he unveiled the so-called. ProMoPro case. And I would say that the last coalition had enough serious reasons to try to block the use of the FAO in political warfare. That was one of the crucial reasons, I think. And that the minister of the previous coalition government fell after the publication of the so-called F.A.U.'s findings are proven facts. [[Attention, time's up.]] So the motion for control makes sense, and it needs to be worked on, and I would recommend that a committee be set up before the Government Act is processed, where opposition parties will also be, and it needs to be discussed on the floor of parliamentary committees. This was very welcomed and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u33	I thank Mr Gabal. With another factual remark, Mr Urban. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the parliamentary control and appointment of the director by the government should have been here a long time ago. I wouldn't criticize them for that. Okay, but just because they didn't kind of want it in the past, there were doubts as to whether the unit was being abused, whether it was professional enough, whether it was being controlled enough. Doubts will not disappear by the fact that former government parties are now in opposition and government parties are different. I think it is still true that control should be here, because that is the only way to avoid doubt that the department is no longer professional enough, that it is not abused and that it is under democratic parliamentary control. Well, from my point of view, he should have been a long time ago, and that he wasn't, that's what we can talk about. Okay, it was wrong, but it can be, and I think the proposal is worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u35	I thank Mr Urban. With another factual remark, Mr Fichtner, Mr Stanjura, Mr Štětina, Mr Filip and Mr Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm a little sorry that this debate is very flattered. It is mentioned in the law on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and is discussed the FAO control and the method of appointment of the Director of the FAO. However, we forget a little bit that security architecture in the Czech Republic is more complex. It's not just the FAO, and the problem isn't just the FAO. I mean, you know, or I hope you know that we have a law on intelligence, we have a law on Military Intelligence, we have a law on the Security Information Service, but there's no need for a law on the Office of Foreign Relations and Information anymore. So the debate on reform or change of security architecture in the Czech Republic is certainly good and legitimate, but it should be somewhat more comprehensive. It should also be remembered for those areas that are not yet covered. I'm a little impressed by the impression that the opposition is merely ripping out things that are useful to her and then operating with them. I ask the opposition why, for example, she did not come up with a draft law on the Office of Foreign Relations and Information, or why she did not come up with a draft separate law on the Financial Analytical Service. These are things that are worth thinking about and are worth further developing and possibly presenting. So the proposal seems really unsystematic and only to me a valid situation at the Ministry of Finance, so that the powers of President Babiš are limited. So much for me. If it hasn't been done yet, I am now making a motion to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u37	That is not the case in the factual point, however, such a proposal has already fallen from Mr Ondráček. If you wish, you can join him in the general debate. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. After that, Mr Štětina, Mr Filip and Mr Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u38	There's always so much going on... That's what they call paranoia. We put it in the coalition contract in 2010, in the Security Committee we discussed it in 2011. The government of 2012. In the House it fell under the table in 2013 - and we did it all to limit the Minister of Finance Babiš! Interesting vision of the world, hat down! You knew it was against Babiš in 2010. We had no idea, thank you for the interpretation. Now I know why we put it there three or four years ago. [[18.10 hours]] When you say inaccurate information, you should admit it and give the right information. I did not exactly say that Mr Ondráček intervened on 17 November. My bad, it was Palach's week. I'm not going to change anything on the other words. If it was Palach's week, or November 17th, it's one thing from my point of view, but the exact information is that it was Palachův's week. And the fact that a guy like that complains that even after 25 years, I've been an anti-communist - I don't mind. I said that in 1989, 1990, and now I could name all the years that President Votava here said. I won't. I've been saying this all along, and I'm not ashamed to be an anti-communist. I'm not ashamed of it. It upsets you, and I'm glad it upsets you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u39	Thank you for everyone's pleasure, actually. With another factual remark, Mr Štětina, followed by Mr Filip, followed by Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u40	Thank you again, Mr Vice-President, only for the sake of order. I'm glad that Mr. Exministry Kalousek appreciates my old age, I'm really glad, but I can say that I still remember everything that I'm not in such a bad condition that I don't remember things. I, of course, was a coalition MP and, of course, the coalition treaty was sacred to me, but I believe that the important thing is whether we were able or willing to put this law into the legislative process at all. We didn't. And now there's only really one thing. I'd love it if we didn't mention things public here anymore. They're not here anymore. Then we could get to Coach No. 1, coup No. 2 and I wouldn't like that. I don't think anybody cares, and the point is that the Financial Analysis Service works the way it's supposed to, and not the way it did. Just real facts: 135 billion. Tax dues, 28 billion. tax defaults. And that was all when they were in the power of the government, when I was a coalition partner at the time, and I'm not ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u41	Thank you, Mr Štětin. With another factual remark, Vice-President of the House of Filip. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madame and Gentlemen, I will have two comments. The first concerns the bill submitted. You know, in the reasoning of both Mr Fiala and the rapporteur's report, there is one thing missing, which was expressed here in other words - a typical circumvention of Act No. 2/1969 Coll., on the organisation of ministries. That is true, because we are basically trying to change the competences that are at the Ministry, we want to transfer them to another body, here to the government, etc., and in this respect, the system is really disrupted. And I have nothing against the separation of the Financial Analysis Service and not just the Ministry of Finance, but it has to be done the way it's supposed to be done, not in this way. And now for what my colleagues have said here in other factual remarks. Mr President, by your means to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club and the Chairman of the ODS Club. I think you should respect the Constitution of this country, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, because all people here are equal, all Members and their views. So, if you're gonna boss somebody around about what he was doing back then and then, I'm begging you to say that. It's just a sign that you don't value equality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u43	With a final factual remark - so far - Mr Laudát. Please, Member, your two minutes, then the duly registered Member Stanjura with priority rights, if he still insists, and Mr Fichtner. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just being serious. If anybody says anything, they should stand up for it. If you jump on the iDNES blog and enter Mr. Ondráček's name and password, you'll find it there. He's in uniform with the background of Václavák. Well, someone would have to fake it, but otherwise it's there, and it's a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u45	I thank Mr Laudát. The President of the MP's club is a gentleman, letting a colleague out of the coalition. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u46	Thank you. I promised the Prime Minister that I would be very quick, that I would have five seconds to do this, so in those five seconds, I would just sign up for a motion to dismiss this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u47	I'm registering it. Thank you. Now, with priority rights, Mr President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u48	I understand the rhetorical challenges of writing a new law on something. Since we have already been to the government, we know that writing a new secret service law is not in the power of opposition MPs without an apparatus. It's just a fact, there's nothing wrong with that. Once you're in opposition, you're gonna give me the truth that it is, because such a law needs a proper legislative process with all the lengthy commentary proceedings. It's a long time, but it's good for something. We have applied the law that went through the ordinary legislative process, the House press, I think, 683, I don't know exactly, from the last parliamentary term. Anyone who wants to go to eKLEP can also find the course of the commentary procedure, which comment was made by the Ministry, how it was organized etc. Otherwise, we wouldn't write it, because the worst thing is, when a legislator has holy enthusiasm, he invents two sentences, doesn't think up ties, and then we're all wondering what went through the House and what the consequences are somewhere else that we expected. So many answers. These are idle challenges, and you know very well that they are empty. If anyone wants to write a new secret service bill, it has to be a government proposal with proper commentary. You can't write that from the opposition with the government having 30 days. The government would write to us that it's nonsystemic, that there are legislative technical errors, etc. In this case, it is really smiling, because it has already been said here, we have dusted off the bill which has undergone a proper legislative process. I have convicted you of this, my colleague, through the Vice-President, that this was not done on your chairman. I know you're such a Pretorian guard, and when someone suddenly wants to criticize the Treasury Secretary, you're standing around him, and that's right. I'm not criticizing you for that. But sometimes you exaggerate, and you have to take the moment when the proposal came up. This really could not have been as a criticism of Andrej Babiš in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. That's why the argument that it's a one-time thing or it's written against the current finance minister isn't! In the logic of the matter, you say it's against the Minister of Finance, and then you say the Minister of Finance controls it all he wants, and now it's against him. But I assume that his statement that somehow he doesn't care, that somehow it works itself, that it's true, that it doesn't affect anything and that he doesn't take the results from the FAO and he doesn't use them in any kind of struggle, whether economic or political. So there's no one to defend, and there's no one to defend. All I understand is that, for politically prestigious reasons, you need to show who has the majority here and vote for rejection to come up with a proposal of your own. I understand that. I think in some cases it makes sense. In this case, I'm missing the point if you don't want to change competencies, etc., and we don't want that. Just the two simple things. And I'm not an MP who's applying to the security committees and all the committees that control the existing intelligence services, so if we set this up, I'm sure I won't be interested in a position on such a committee. But I would like the Chamber of Deputies to have an overview of how the FAÚ works to help prevent any possible abuse, because the information they have - if anyone is a big brother, it's the FAÚ and it doesn't matter who's in the government. They have information about all of us. By law, we are - what do they say? Politically involved? Something like that. Politically exposed, thank you to my colleague. If you come to the bank and you want to put in a higher amount, the bank will jump out that you're a politically exposed person, and they'll ask you where you got the money and why there's so many of them. And that goes for everyone. This applies to both government and opposition MEPs. So what's the big deal about seven of our colleagues taking care of this and having some information for us as a choir about how it works? And what's wrong with a government-appointed boss? I don't really understand. I think that if there are legislative technical comments, it's interesting that the same Government Legislative Council, the same one, because the changes didn't go through until now, when the proposal was done, it didn't come up last year, and this year it did. [[18.20 hours]] I thought naively that the Government's Legislative Council did not comply with the political mandate, that it really looked strictly legislatively technically and pointed out. And I found out it wasn't. I'm about to go on another bill - the same case. The article passed here last year without comment; this year there are about six pages of comments from the same people. Not the other ones - the same ones. And here's the same case. The same people who did not apply any comments on what was submitted to the first reading in the last parliamentary term today found legislative technical errors and shortcomings. It's a little smiling, but this can be fixed between first and second reading. But if you want to be winners of every vote, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u49	Thank you to President Stanjur. With another proper application, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u50	Because I don't want to support the confrontational atmosphere here, so through your colleague Fial and President Stanjur: Firstly, my proposal to change the FAO's control in the coalition agreement was not linked to what I think or do not think of Mr Babiš. I don't care what the finance minister is like, but I agree that big brother just needs more control. And now this speech is about whether it will be executive or parliamentary. That's one thing. The second thing is through you for the President. When you wrote the proposal, there wasn't even a motion on the table to set up a bank account register, which is the role that the FAO is doing. That means it's changing. [[The reaction from the bench.]] No, I wasn't. Now it's being redesigned. Or like this - now it's designed and it depends whether it passes or fails and looks or doesn't look like it. Secondly, by your means, Mr President, for Mr Kalousek's ex-minister. I don't know what this kobra thing can do right now. Whether it's similar to the financial police or not. I think we should discuss these questions calmly on the platform of the Committee on Budget or Security so that we know exactly how to control them. That it is necessary to check, I agree. And one final point. I said it, the question is, do we really want to turn the FAO into a news service or not, because it's not the intelligence service. [[Voices from the benches.]] It's not. But we can really turn it into intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u51	Please don't yell at each other if it is or isn't. Please, who wants to shout, have them sign up for a proper application. One such is already reporting - Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u52	Thank you. Several polite answers to Mr Gabal. It really warms my heart that the coalition MP is asking me what the Cobra is going to do, because I don't know either. It's just a marketing mist over something where there's no change in powers, no change in legislation. Nothing will change except that sometimes the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance shout to the media that they have Kobra and that kobra is working. It's about the same as when the finance minister says to the media three times a week that he's saving, even if he's increasing the structural deficit. So here I would like the answer from you, Mr Gabal, because you, for marketing policy, are actually doing something completely different, unlike me, you are responsible. So I don't know what the Kobra is doing. I don't think he's really gonna do anything besides news articles and television reports. First of all. Two. The FAO, unlike Kobra, is actually defined by law. I ask you very much to find yourself, you who do not have trouble reading, to find a passage in the Money Laundering Act concerning the Financial Analysis Department. And maybe it's hard to understand, but that's really the department of one ministry, which is defined by law. Its powers are defined by law and its powers are defined by law. This is because it is the implementation of a common directive of the European Union. There is no other department in any other ministry that is not defined by law and its competences and powers have not been defined by law. It's the Financial Analysis Department of the Treasury. That's right. You can decide he'll be pulled out of the Treasury Department, alone, under the D.A.'s office. Such models are in other countries of the European Union. But you cannot, if you want to be a country of the European Union, say that this is not the case and that this department does not have the powers provided for by law. Unlike Kobra - Mr Gabal, I understand you're talking to Stanjura, but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u53	I would like to ask that, since the Members are no longer shouting at each other, the discussions should be held outside, please. I'm sure it's a God-loving discussion, factual, but I'll ask for peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u54	So, unlike Kobra, Mr Gabal, through Mr President, kobra has no powers defined by law. Cobra's only got the headlines in the paper. But the Financial Analysis Service has the powers defined by law. And these are not small competencies, and they are not small powers. [[He's talking very strongly.]] And it is up to you, colleagues, whether you wish to submit these competences and powers to your own political control across the political spectrum. You want it or you don't want it. If you don't want to, they won't die, they'll keep working. Only those who voted for you will ask what they have you for. If they have you to give up your legal and supervisory powers. That's a logical question. I don't feel like working. Why should I control anything if I have constitutionally imposed control powers? Why would I do that? I want to look pretty by not checking on a former aesthetic. At this point, of the 28 analysts, there is no former aesthebician, I can guarantee. But it could be different in six months. It's up to you whether you want the control or not. I am even willing - and now I apologize to my colleagues from the TOP 09 Club - I am even willing to say because it was my proposal that I made here. That's, please, a government proposal. This government proposal was submitted in 2012 and in all the specialised bodies of the House, the former Social Democrats, the Communists, the Public Affairs, where Mr Štětina sat, they rejoiced that the proposal exists here and that it is good that the FAO will finally be under parliamentary control. I remember. I'll repeat to you who voted for it and who claimed it. Those of you who don't want it today. Ladies and gentlemen, that was a government proposal. Government proposal submitted by the Minister of Finance Kalousek to the Government in 2012 and submitted by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies in early 2013. The proposal went through the first reading without any reservations, because you all felt that it was right, and then the Chamber of Deputies dissolved and someone had to submit the proposal again. Colleagues from ODS did it. It was exactly the same way that ČSSD colleagues could have done it, because they supported the government proposal just as much as the government supported it back then. [[He speaks in an excited voice.]] I find this discussion completely absurd. We all wanted it back then, and now we don't want it?! Because it's signed by Černochová, Stanjura? I'm sorry, you're making me sad. You want to implement your constitutional rights and obligations to control this department, which someone says is not intelligence. But I'm sorry, it's in the law that it's intelligence! In that law that none of you have read!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u55	Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. The constitutional responsibilities referred to by the Member are also -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u56	I'm sorry I'm not being listened to by Mr. Sklenák, head of the club. [[He's resisting.]] You're not listening, you're talking to blondes. I understand you, but on the other hand, you are the proposal when it was a government proposal and you were an opposition MP, supporting it because you saw parliamentary control of the executive. Now you don't want him! [[18.30 hours]] You may have done business with someone, perhaps you agreed with your ANO colleagues that if you didn't support this proposal, you might have one more person on the agricultural committee. I don't know what you've changed your mind about, but you've changed that opinion, Mr President, because we agreed here in 2012 that this intelligence agency - some unfortunate person here said it wasn't the intelligence department, I'm saying again that the law says it's the intelligence department, so if any MP here thinks it's not, then it's bad luck. He has to change the law first. That this intelligence service will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny, that is what we agreed here in 2012. You don't want it now. You just don't want to work, you don't want to work. Basically, you do whatever you want, but you make me kind of sad, 'cause first of all, you can see how horrible you don't understand it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u57	I thank the President of the TOP 09 and the starosta. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Czech Parliamentary Club of the Social Democratic Member Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am patiently waiting here for my procedural proposal to finish this point so as not to disturb it, but since President Kalousek has already mentioned my name, I have also signed up to surprise you at the last minute. I would like to propose, on behalf of the two parliamentary clubs, social democracy and YES 2011, that we act today and vote on all proposals in a procedural and territorial manner after the 19th hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u59	I will vote on this proposal. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Initiating vote on the proposal of President Sklenák. Who is in favour of voting and acting after 19 o'clock, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 100 vote, 167 Members and Members registered, for 115, against 9. The motion was accepted. Thank you. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Chairman of TOP 09, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u60	It is customary to make such proposals after a preliminary agreement. It wasn't, we were surprised. We need to think about this. Please take two hours' break for the TOP 09 meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-007-030.u61	I respect your proposal for a recess and interrupt the House meeting within 20.33 hours. [[Big noise in the hall, Members of Kalousek, Sklenák and others are arguing excitedly.]] Dear colleagues, while the House's meeting is adjourned, the President of the Úsvit Group of Parliament has informed me that at 20.33 hours, the Úsvit Club wants to take a break at the meeting of its two-hour parliamentary club. Given that the House's meeting was... or we voted on President Sklenák's procedural motion to negotiate today only after 19 o'clock, not after 21 o'clock, so with your consent, if no one objects to my procedure, I will interrupt the House's meeting until tomorrow... [[The voice off the microphone suggests that the hearing is adjourned.]] The meeting is adjourned, but the House will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m.
