ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-008-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended /house print 262/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Minister Jiří Dienstbier shall state the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-008-009.u2	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, the purpose of the proposed bill is to correct some obsolete legislation on the position and activities of the Supreme Audit Office contained in the Supreme Audit Office Act, which was adopted in 1993. Since then, the legal system has undergone a number of changes which have not yet been reflected in the legal regulation of the position and activities of the Supreme Audit Office. Furthermore, in response to developments in the field of information systems, the draft law also regulates this issue with regard to their use by the Supreme Audit Office, in particular when carrying out checks. Last but not least, some institutes are incorporated into the draft law to make the planning of the SAO's controls more effective, as well as other adjustments resulting from the existing application of the law in practice. In order to achieve the above-mentioned purpose, it is proposed, in particular, to reflect the terminology changes in the legal system, in particular in the field of private and labour law and the organisation of public prosecutors' offices, to provide for the obligation to issue the SAO Bulletin containing inspection findings also on the SAO's website, to adapt the legislation on the use of information technology in particular in the SAO's control activities to the current level of development of these technologies, and to allow the SAO's audit plan to pre-found the documentation for the assessment of which specific entities have included in the control activity plan. This change is intended to contribute to ensuring greater efficiency and efficiency of controls. I would also point out that this law, virtually. This amendment is not a substantive amendment aimed at implementing the amendment of the Constitution, which has already been approved in the Chamber of Deputies. This amendment is prepared according to the Government's legislative plan, it should be submitted to the Government by the end of this year. As it follows from the above, the draft law is therefore a technical amendment to ensure a clear application of the Law on the Supreme Audit Office in practice, as well as to assist in the more efficient and efficient implementation of the controls carried out by the Office, thereby contributing to the most necessary purpose of these checks, which is ultimately due to compliance with all legal and other procedures. The Supreme Audit Office of the audited bodies in their management of public funds. I therefore recommend that the draft law amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, to give your consent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-008-009.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-008-009.u4	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, as the Minister said, this is indeed a technical amendment that regulates the SAO law according to terminology used now in our legal order. It regulates the participation of the President of the SAO in government meetings, access of the SAO to the information systems of the audited persons and examination in case of appeal of the audited person. From the House's point of view, I consider it the most important extension of the deadline for delivering an opinion on the state final account for four months. I recommend that the House release this press at first reading and order the inspection committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-008-009.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which no one is reporting, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant and the rapporteur whether they are interested in the final word. [[They don't.]] It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the inspection committee for discussion? Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 62, to which 166 are registered, of which 125, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
