ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u1	Challenge of the outcome of the vote on paragraph 22 and subsequent statements I have Mr Šincl's application here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I am so sorry, it happens to me once in my term, but I would like to question the vote number 65 and 66 at the same time. At the high vote on vote no. 65, this is Mr Urban's proposal, I have a yes on high, and I know I wanted to vote no. At the same time, on the ballot No. 66, this is about the final vote, I'm late for high school, and I wanted to vote yes. That is why I question the vote. At the same time, I would like to say that I wanted to apply this objection immediately after the vote, but the President of the Roman Sklenák Parliamentary Club called a break for the Social Democracy Club, and therefore I could not apply this objection immediately. That's why I'm really sorry about all of you. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u3	Thank you, Mr President, that is an objection to the record of the vote which we will vote on immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u4	I'm sorry, Mr President, the meeting was adjourned until 13.20. No one's checked in yet. I volunteered with priority rights, you saw me, and you didn't deliberately give me a word that Mr Šincl was signed up. The Rules of Procedure shall not allow such a procedure. Moreover, you want to let us vote without making an unprecedented effort to change the law long after it has been adopted so that you can proceed without debate. At this point, I'm asking for a 50-minute break at the ODS club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u5	I am not going to give you the break because, first, your objection to Mr Šincl's preference is that the objection against the record of the vote is understood as a factual point. And it has always been true that factual remarks take precedence. Ad one. Secondly, I should not even have let you speak properly, because there is a vote on the procedural proposal without debate. This means that I will be voting on the objection raised here by Mr Šincl against the vote record 65 and 66. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of accepting this objection. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 67, registered is 168, for 95, against 29. This proposal was adopted. We have therefore complied with Mr Šincl's objection and will therefore vote again on the amendment tabled by Mr Urban. A colleague of Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been able to get the voting device to work. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u7	Are you questioning the vote on the objection? Okay, well, I'll put it to the vote again. I am opening the vote on who agrees with Mr Laudát's objection to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 68, registered as 171, for 137, sorry 136, against 9, this objection was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote on Mr Šincl's objection. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mr Šincl's objection to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 69, registered is 171, for 98, against 34, this proposal has been adopted. We will therefore repeat the vote No. 65, which means voting on the Member's amendment... Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. I think that the vote should be led by the rapporteur and not by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, since you have already taken this unprecedented step. I just want to say what you did. You took a break to get more MPs. After the pause, obviously the number of those present has increased, you pretend that one vote, even if it were true, if Mr Šincl wanted it on the screen record, was right, there was no vote on the vote. So you lost the vote, you could object immediately, none of you did. Then there was another vote, before him the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip read a long resolution on the fact that we are voting on the law as a whole. Nobody questioned. We adopted the law by a distinct majority - I say, I voted against - so also against the will of part of the opposition. No one questioned the vote. Then you took an hour off, I don't know, to convince your 17 members of the ČSSD MP to change their minds or to bring in other MPs. After an hour and something, you pretend that with one vote, you can lose the law. He can, if it's immediate. It didn't happen. I'm telling you right now, I'm really going to attack this in the Constitutional Court. Not because of this law, the majority was clear for those who voted for the law, but for the future. The next day, you'll come back with a second day of questioning, because your chairman of the club will take two hours' break at 5:00 p.m. and it's not enough to meet until 7:00 p.m. And some MP here will say it happens to me once in a parliamentary term, so I'm questioning the vote, I wanted to do it yesterday, but yesterday our chairman took two hours off, and then the day ended, and in the meantime, the people who were absent from the vote will arrive and the law will be voted on at another time, in another court, and otherwise. Instead of using the legitimate tools that government coalitions have, every parliamentary party, if any vote goes wrong, and you have the legitimate tools, you're not under any time pressure, so you're automatically making a new precedent here. I say right now, we've been agreed somehow, we've agreed to block one law such, but such an attempt to change the results of the House's vote with more than an hour delay, almost an hour and a half, is simply unacceptable! At this point, I'm really asking for a recess at our club meeting. We need to talk about how we're going to proceed with the next points, if you guys are making this a ripping calendar, you don't want to respect the results of the vote. It is not our fault that you forgot to question the vote at the moment when the Rules of Procedure and the Law allow it, that is, immediately. And the fact that you're playing that game that my chairman still didn't let me play his own club, that's really funny. That's kind of funny as it is, but Nightie's on the air a little bit later than at 13.28 when we want to tell the public some fairy tales. Well, figure it out in the Senate, and you'll have it sorted out in 30 days. And don't bend the law, don't bend the Rules of Procedure, because we're not really gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u9	So, I gave you my word, I'll give you another one with priority rights. [[applause from the right side of the hall]] Mr. Chairman of the club or Deputy Chairman of the Laudat Club, then Vice-President Filip, I register the request for a break, but we have approved the objection to the voting procedure, so I will give the pause after we deal with this point. Mr President or Deputy President Laudat. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u10	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Don't really give precedents. You tried something this morning, you're trying something now. You're really making a dangerous situation for the future. Because where's the time zone? The questioning of the vote should be immediate. If you admit this without changing the line in that law, you're really questioning it. Someone's gonna file a complaint with the Constitutional Court, you're just really making precedents dangerous, because somebody's really gonna pick up on Friday and question their vote. [[13.30 hours]] If we do this - now you don't even want to give the ODS club a break. We didn't want to take breaks, but this is a situation that needs the legislative department, the House Department, to think about, because what you're rushing the House into today is very dangerous. You just screwed up the vote, you lost, you didn't make a deal in advance at the club. As it is possible - but I ask rhetorically, I do not expect the chairman of the Socialist Club to answer here - you have some amendments loaded that you will not discuss them, then you do not know how to vote. Excuse me. And now because you're having problems in your own club, in your own party, you're making some precedent decisions here, precedent procedures. I can get up now and start questioning the waste bill. Can I have a new vote? Or will the vote be open again, or won't it? Really, don't do this. Let's get you back from the Senate. In the meantime, make a deal on your own side whether you screwed up or not. Now there's other people, they're going to vote, they weren't voting before. I feel like I don't Neználek the Wonderland. We really wanted you to go to the negotiating table. I wouldn't use words to block or obstruct what's in the media. We want you at the Service Act to go to the negotiating table so that we can try to find a solution that is good for this country. These other laws, whether with a positive or negative opinion, which we have every right to, and all of us here, we just wanted to let go. But what you're asking here is that they're really starting to stretch out on the next meeting. What you're doing here today is absolutely incredible. And, indeed, once again, Mr President, I call on you not to introduce this precedent. He's dangerous, and he'll turn against you in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u11	My colleague - before I give the floor to Vice-President Filip - I have no precedents here. I am acting strictly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the resolutions adopted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I cannot give a break to the ODS Club because the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 13 June 1999, which says: 'If the Chamber of Deputies objects to the vote', which we have done, 'the vote must be repeated. When the negotiations are cancelled at the moment before the vote is repeated, the announcement of a break at the request of the club shall not be possible.' This means that this is a valid resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, and I am strictly following it. Therefore, I cannot declare a break for the ODS meeting at the time of the opposition to the vote. It just can't be done. And if I declare it, I will violate this House's resolution. Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I never vote in favour of an objection to the record of the result of the vote. I have a very good reason for that. In 1999, and then this resolution, quoted by the President of the House, arose, I defended the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which took place after the objections. The precedent for voting on the objection has been introduced here by the ODS political party! [[He speaks very strongly.]] The Civil Democratic Party forced a repeat vote 14 days after the trade code was voted out, its amendment. And we have become the subject of a severe conflict with the Constitutional Court. This has been repeated several times. And then we came across the Constitutional Court in a very difficult situation, and that is why I was so strict and I would say grossly emission to my colleague, Mr Schwarz, because, of course, I know that it can immediately be after reading the electronic record of the result of the vote. And the fact that if someone makes up a misvote or thinks it's wrong, that's no reason. I remember we repeated one vote here just because someone poured lemonade into a voting machine, I'm not going to appoint a former colleague. So this is not a new precedent in this regard. I repeat, I will never vote in favour of objecting to the outcome of the vote, even if it were to be in my favour. That is everyone's responsibility as they vote. Repetition of the vote is normally totally unacceptable in each of the Rules of Procedure. It is precisely because this device has been repaired so many times that we have come to accept it at all. I ask all my fellow Members, my colleague, to consider how to use this institute. I am not convinced that what is happening right now is evidence of a different level of the Chamber of Deputies than it had in the past. I am seriously concerned that this coalition is continuing the practices of the previous coalitions, but it does not have Mrs Nagyová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u13	With another priority right, Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say, we were not even in the previous Chamber of Deputies. I used to record those manners more from the media. But during the Dawn movement, I am absolutely shocked by what the government coalition has shown here. I'm sorry, but if this vote is going to happen again, the YES movement has completely betrayed what went into the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not talking about the others, they've been here repeatedly, that's on their conscience. Dear friends, it is logical that we can take a vote in question, and you all know that when it is then a vote. Okay, I was really wrong, I'm sorry, my device really didn't work. Okay, maybe I missed it. I don't know the reasons. It hasn't happened to me yet. It didn't happen to me. I never had those reasons. But after an hour, two hours to remember that I want to question something, I'm sorry, but it smells like fraud to me, it smells like lies, it smells like charade, definitely not democratic principles. And it's just a mistake that probably happened on your side by not making a deal. But that is a total hacking of the democratic principles of this republic. I'm sick of it if this vote comes back to me. But whatever other law it is, it's not about this particular law. Your conscience can't let that happen! We, the Dawn movement, suggest that we release it, let it pass to the Senate, as it should, he will comment on it. And don't bend the Rules of Procedure, we don't bend the laws and rules here in the Czech Republic, so please, it would be good to bring it back. In the Senate, ČSSD has most of it. Well, it can go back to the Chamber of Deputies. Then wait until you're all here from the government coalition when you have the majority, or please make a deal within the ČSSD. But such incredible bending of the Rules of Procedure and the Law... I really also agree that this is for discussion on the constitutionality of this step. Please, let's really not do that. We are fundamentally against it. It's really not enough to stare at what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u15	Since there's still a whole bunch of priority rights, I'm gonna ask if I skipped someone here on the right. [[No one's checking in.]] If not, the Minister of Finance applied and then the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't understand what Mr. Okamura was talking about. Like, what does the YES movement have to do with it? [[An explosion of laughter in the hall.]] I don't know what's funny about that. Mr Urban here has put forward an absolutely irresponsible proposal that you will deprive the state budget of 14 billion, which you will supply to companies that distribute fuel. Not to citizens. You don't understand what you're voting on. I suggest you keep an eye out. Mr. Faltýnek here said that fuel in the Czech Republic and prices in the surrounding countries are the cheapest. So the 14 billion, and I made it clear in the debate that I'm willing to debate it instead of getting people to build highways, they're going to get distribution companies. And if you don't understand, come to training.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u17	Mr. Foreign Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u18	Have a good afternoon, too. Colleagues, I would not just forgive myself for expressing my opinion of the debate that has been raised here by the opposition, because I have actually had to decide on the objections raised in this House for many years, to decide what the word immediately means in the Rules of Procedure. And so I can say that it has always been in our imaginations for about five minutes, and the break doesn't count according to me. I would just like to correct to Vice-President Filip what he said here when he said that someone had introduced a mischief of objections to which the Constitutional Court then expressed itself. Since I also remember these situations, I would like to remind him that he was talking about the situation that occurred in 2000. However, I would like to remind him that this was not an objection at the time, but it was a review, a review that was submitted up to 14 days after the vote took place. And that was what the Constitutional Court defined, that was unconstitutional. While the objection, there I really judge only whether we can consider it immediate. Mr Šincl has made it clear here, and he has also told me that he did not have time to raise the objection, and as I understand the magnitude of that time after the vote, there is nothing to be said in the Rules of Procedure about the point and so on. There is talk that it must be given immediately, and we have always considered whether it is in the wound of the roughly five minutes. And that basically happened. Mr Šincl has the right to object, he did not have time to do so before the House was interrupted, he filed it now. I can tell you that after all the experience I have with the House, I would not sign under unconstitutional procedure and support it. I understand the opposition, I understand her efforts to make arguments against here, but I am telling you for myself with a clear conscience that the procedure that is proposed here, in my firm conviction, is not unconstitutional and is conformary to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u19	Vice-President Laudat, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to thank the Minister of Finance because he said the real reason. Urbanův's changeling has declared it nonsense, so you, from the point of view of the members of the YES, respectively. The Social Democrats or the Coalition, they messed up the vote, and now you want to vote again. But that is not what the Rules of Procedure allow. I thank the Minister for making this very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u21	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u22	Mr President, you said you would not give us a break because Mr Šincl's objection is to be put to the vote. [[Chairman of the PSP: We have already voted on this.]] But you said you wouldn't give us a break. However, you are denying the objection itself. Mr Šincl says: I had an objection and you have declared a break. So someone can take a break, by any chance, from the government club, and someone can't take a break, by any chance, from the opposition club. I'm pointing out that today you've all been expecting opposition obstruction, about 90 minutes had the biggest government club break. Why not? I didn't think of it. I'm attacking the moment we're not allowed to. The Foreign Minister's interpretation may be smiling. There's no point in us telling each other how the Constitutional Court is gonna end, and here we're gonna see who's right, that's gonna be somebody else's decision. We protest for precedent reasons, because it can happen again at any time. There's always one unlucky guy who says with that innocent face: it happens to me once in my term. And I don't know if it's been five minutes. Five minutes is constitutional and six minutes is unconstitutional? Why isn't the club chairman paying attention to him? Why does it not allow its Member to object? In the meantime, there was another vote. That's the more embarrassing thing to say. If it was the last one and then somehow ended the point quickly, I still understand, but it was the second-last vote, then there was plenty of time. None of us saw Mr Šincl waving his hand here and saying, look out, I voted wrong, I did not want to support Urbanův's proposal and I accidentally supported it. There was no such thing. And I'll tell the Minister of Finance how the members of the ANO movement got into the shootout. All you had to do was not vote on Mr Šincl's incontrovertible objection. Then you're absolutely right, and it doesn't concern you, it's another government club's problem. The moment you vote to allow this process to be legalized, you're in deep shit. We are not having a debate at all, and I do not want to debate whether Mr Urban's proposal is good or bad, we should have done that at second and third reading, absolutely fine. We're debating the fact that the law's been passed and someone's trying to reverse it. We're not leading her on whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, I understand. So when it comes from the Senate, we can talk about it, whether it's good or bad, and whether it's good to support the House version, or the Senate version, it's a normal political debate, and we'll listen to the Minister of Finance's arguments about what he thinks it's wrong, and we'll listen to the government MP's arguments about what he thinks it's good at, and then we'll make a decision. But we are not debating the substance of the matter, whether it is a good thing or a bad thing, whether it causes a 14-billion-dollar blackout or a plus supply, as Mr Urban claims - and I say, not opposition, but government. We're having a debate about how things turned out, someone at the last minute, late, remembered, and they want to question it. Yes, immediately after the vote, Mr Šincl had the absolute right, and I would be the first to support his objection. This is, of course, a fictional story. We can pretend we believe it - we don't believe it. If you allow the bill to be put to the vote again, Mr President, we will not take part in the vote, and we will attack it in Brno precisely because of the procedure, not because of whether it is a good thing or a bad thing. The procedures are supposed to stick, and if someone misses it, that they're not paying attention, and they remember late, then they're just unlucky, even if they have a majority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u23	Mr. Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, I certainly don't know the procedures, and I don't think I'm gonna learn them. I was naively thinking that since all the political parties have such a touching concern for our citizens, that we could perhaps vote together on some things. I don't understand why ODS and especially the TOP 09, which pushes us to the fiscal pact that the structural deficit - and I agree that we should not be indebted - so logically you should vote with us, you should vote against the fact that you take 14 billion, which actually belongs to the state budget, and you give them to a few private companies, because the distribution of fuel in the Czech Republic is concentrated today, so you give it to a few companies. I don't get it. I don't care about the procedures, I don't understand it, but I don't understand why you're voting against it when it's against what you're saying so we don't get into debt. And the 14 billion. We're gonna miss him in the budget. We're friendly. I say yes, fiscal pact, structural deficit, yes, 1% I would like in 2017. Well, that's against what you're voting for. They don't get people, they don't get 14 billion. they get people. I think it would be normal for everyone to vote against it. Everyone. It's not for people, it's for companies and it's against people because it's against the budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u25	Mr Laudát has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I guess there's a little bit more to consider by now. I'm sorry, but the original law on green oil, if I say it in short, is about giving away money, virtually. actually about increasing tax gambling in terms of tax evasion. So I don't understand. Of course, we have the right to support Urbanův's proposal, which we have also done. Quite objectively, at that time social democracy as one man and one woman here repeatedly made these proposals. We were carrying out analyses of why we think that is not so, there were also a little different conditions, the Economic Council of the Government, NERV, also had such an opinion that the state would not make money on it. However, we recognise the legitimate claim of social democracy, or, as it turns out, now that it comes, it is responsible for the country's budget towards citizens. If you've got the impression and you insist on it or part of the club that it's still the right thing to do, then why wouldn't we support it? But we didn't vote, we even voted against the law as a whole. Well, I don't see the problem. [[13.50 hours]] As far as the rules or the Rules of Procedure are concerned... You know, in every institution, in every organization, when you start questioning the rules, exfoliating it, bypassing it, bending it, it turns out bad. This is a philosophy that I don't share in any way, and even if it does exist, and I'm not an expert on that decision, the Constitutional Court ruling, so it's definitely a precedent if it's five minutes or not five minutes, I don't think it's gonna play a role in any questioning. And if you want to push for something quickly, and it's legitimate, I think that the fast path leads through the Senate, not through the manipulation of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to know, and I would like to wait for the legislative opinion of the department, whether what is valid for Šincl or valid for the Sklenák does not apply to the president of the ODS Stanjura Club. I know it might be a word catcher, or you'll say it, but here's the problem, next time, it's gonna start picking up where somebody, these precedents. And I just have a big problem with it. Therefore, I would ask the legislation to say whether what was in force before President Sklenák took a break does not apply to Stanjura anymore. I think the House leadership should interrupt this meeting and look for a way out of this potato. I would quite like to know if President Sklenák here would have responded to this, because indeed, if Mr Šincl's efforts were ignored to challenge the vote even then, that is quite a serious mistake, but I do not think that was so. I didn't notice. And apparently no one else noticed it. And I would very much like the President to simply say here at that time whether he has noted Šinclův's objection or attempted it. I believe there was no such thing as a colleague sitting in his seat. I don't know. So I'd really like you to just... You can absurdly for your electoral program, and some of you had it there, just help or return the green oil. Well, then, consider if you're going to cross off that point of yours...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u27	With priority rights - or do you wish to continue, colleague?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u28	I just wanted to say goodbye, but it's so noisy here that... So, nothing more, thank you, I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u29	With priority rights, Mr. President of the Dawn Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have touched on the economic side of the state budget following the excise duty on fuel, let me say a few things that the Dawn movement had in its programme, and why the Dawn movement actually voted today in favour of reducing excise duty on diesel and petrol. The Czech Republic has one of the densest service stations in Europe. Propulsion, as you know, is a cost item for almost all raw materials. All the stuff, all the products are carried on trucks and stuff. So fuel is an important cost item in the business of all corporate groups, all companies. We think that if we partially discount fuel, that means we reduce their excise duty on petrol and diesel, there will be a pro-growth measure. We're not sure there's going to be a state budget blackout. In time, it would certainly level up, and the Czech Republic will become much more competitive. Although today it has been said that we have the cheapest diesel, the cheapest petrol, so tell me, why do trucks carry additional tanks and tanks in Spain? Why are they fueling in other countries of Europe and not in the Czech Republic? On the contrary, let's bring in the trucks and bring in the trucks to refuel in the Czech Republic to increase fuel consumption in the Czech Republic. I think it's possible. So I see it more as a pro-growth step not only on the state budget, but on business, competitiveness, everything. This should bring down prices for all industries in the future. That is why we have been led to vote in favour of reducing excise duty on diesel and petrol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u31	Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. We're having a creative meeting day today. I am quite interested, Mr President, in what stage of the negotiations we are at in your opinion. There's an amendment to excise taxes on the board, House press 208, I call it: it's a taboo. It's not green oil, it's House press 215. You're saying... Not Hamáček, I told you, be careful to understand each other. You claim, or you have voted in protest, and you have questioned the vote number 66, 65, so we seem to have gotten back to point 22, House press 215, the excise duty in which several ministers have spoken. And you're saying it's not a debate. I wonder how there is no debate when several ministers, such as the Foreign Minister, who has nothing to do with the House Press 215, could not say this as a minister, I am opposed, I am in favour, I am neutral. So you've allowed the opening of the debate fairly, we've returned to the third reading, and now you're saying that you don't, and you don't want to give a word to a colleague of Benda's who applied. I object. And explain to me what point we are at. At what point are we at? We, therefore, are completely confused in opposition. I know you want this, like we're supposed to be quiet so you can vote it off quickly, anything you can remember, but that's not really how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u33	I believe you know very well where we are. We are here before the vote on Mr Urban's amendment, because this House has accepted the objection raised by Mr Šincl, who was opposed by Mr Laudát. This means: We have now accepted Mr Šincl's objection to the outcome of the two votes, and such an objection is voted on without debate. But there is also a vote on the repetition of the vote without debate. I have only allowed those who have priority rights, including ministers. Chairman Fiala, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u34	Ladies and gentlemen. I am also new to the House, and I have no experience of what happened here in the past, but unlike the Minister of Finance, I do not cough on the processes, I consider them important. Order is what protects us from ourselves, so we must obey it. And in the logic of what the President of the Chamber of Deputies says here: If we have accepted the objection, we are again at the third reading where we are to vote. And, of course, it would not have opened up the debate if the ministers whose speech opened the debate had not spoken. So we have a normal debate, no other option is acceptable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u35	Vice-President Laudat, then Chairman of the Stanjura Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u36	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister. Well, I'm totally perplexed now. So, if I understand correctly, the chairman of the meeting has already ignored Šincl twice, so we will not be going back by one vote, but by two votes. Does that mean we're going back to the vote on Mr Urban's amendment? [[Chairman Hamáček: Yes.]] That means something didn't happen here twice, but you said before that it wasn't enough to object before the break. Indeed, not anymore, I would say that almost, not almost, but that is a lot behind the line, and the Rules of Procedure also know the rules of procedure, but I do not see anywhere here, when it is more likely that the House President should be the beneficiary of the measure. It's still more of a matter for Members of Parliament for indecent behavior. There may also be a banishment from the House and so on. You're really manipulating it now. Some people have done a lot of things here in the past. So we would go back to the previous vote in cascade. Well, I can get off here and say that I wasn't allowed to question the vote on the first point this morning - waste. 'Cause it looked a lot like this, too, so I can question it, too, and you're gonna let me vote again? Or what about last week? I really don't want to do this anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u37	Mr. Ambassador, I am proceeding exactly according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Šincl has raised an objection to two votes. I've put it to a vote and the House has decided. I'm begging for notes that I'm manipulating something. If you object to the way I run the meeting, let me call it off. But I'm begging you to accuse me of some manipulation. I shall proceed strictly according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the left side of the courtroom.]] Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u38	You can yell at us, you can vote - you know we're not gonna take you off the empire by voting, you have a government majority, so we're not gonna even suggest it. Yet you are attempting to manipulate it because you do not want to open the debate. The fact that you said at 13.30 that it was immediately after the vote. That's the first manipulation. There's no such rule of procedure. So you can say a hundred times that you proceed strictly, strictly and strictly according to the Rules of Procedure, but if 70 minutes is immediately, well, well, that's crazy. Two. I asked on purpose what point we're at. You told me that we were before that point, that we were at the moment when we should vote on Mr Urban's amendment. That means we haven't actually voted on a proposal yet. The vote has not yet begun because there has been no amendment other than Mr Urban. So we are before the vote - and imagine any other point, we are before the vote, at which point the minister will speak and logically open the debate. And you strictly, strictly, strictly claim that there is no debate. You're wrong. You're blaming yourself for either error or manipulation. Choose what is closer to you. You claim that no vote has yet been taken - by accepting objections to the results of the vote. And that's true. So far, we have no vote on the House Press 215. My colleague is shaking his head, so tell me the result of the vote on the House of the Press 215. None. And because the ministers are speaking, they are logically opening up the debate, and that is all we are giving you at the moment. We will discuss this immediately in Brno, we will not discuss it today. [[Weak applause from the right side of the courtroom.]] You've decided it's 75 minutes immediately, okay. That's all we can say for ourselves, but no one's gonna judge us today. We're really gonna leave that to Brno. But the fact that there is to be an open debate is evident to me that no vote has yet taken place in the House of the Press 215 and the ministers have spoken repeatedly, according to your interpretation. So please allow the other Members who are interested to speak in the debate. Otherwise, we will really consider this manipulation and bending of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u39	Mr President, I simply cannot open this debate because I repeat once again: the objection is decided without debate. However, I have allowed those who have priority rights to speak. That's you and a whole bunch of others who performed, including ministers. However, in my opinion, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure still apply that the objection will be decided without debate. This means that only those who are allowed to perform with priority rights should perform. This is my opinion, and this is my opinion on meeting management. Then I guess someone else will have to judge us, but that's my opinion. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u40	Mr President, we have decided on the objection without debate and immediately. And now we're behind the opposition, we're ahead of a vote that didn't take place. [[Voice from the courtroom: It was done.]] But it didn't! Well, if it's done, then the result is in effect. [[A round of applause from the right side of the courtroom.]] It's quite simple: common sense, mathematical literacy, logic. Either the vote took place, and then the vote, or it didn't, because it was illegitimate for some reason, doesn't apply. If it does not apply, we will vote again, we are before the vote at the third reading, and because the ministers have spoken, so not you, Mr President, but the debate has opened. We are in a debate and no other interpretation is possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u41	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u42	Mr President, you have said several times that you cannot open a debate because the objection is voted on without a debate. But we're not in dispute when I wanted to get off, so you didn't give me that word, and I accepted it. But we're not going to vote on the objection now, we're not going to vote on the objection now. So do not use the argument of objection to defending your procedure. We've already voted on objections, we've dealt with that. So Minister Zaorálek opened the debate at the third reading, he did nothing else by remembering the good old days. I don't know now, I'm not able to respond to what happened in 2000. I just have to believe or not believe or keep a slight skepticism, or study what happened 14 years ago, whether or not someone's had a reaction. You're probably right, and whoever wants to, they'll just find it on the House's website that happened back then. But this is just an incredible procedure. By arguing that the opposition is to be put to the vote without debate, you are defending the debate opened by the Minister after the vote on the objection. Then consider who's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u43	Okay. Since this is obviously going to be... I cannot, even if I wanted to give the floor to Mr Benda, because there are still priority rights, but in order not to be accused of manipulation and not to suspect that I am really trying to get it somewhere it is not supposed to be, so after the priority rights have been exhausted, I will give the floor to Mr Benda with the fact that I will take it as proven that the ministers have opened the debate. [[A round of applause from the right side of the courtroom.]] Chairman of the Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u44	Thank you for your word. I signed up for the debate with priority rights. I just want to say one thing. Quite substantial, namely, that Mr Urban's amendment was tabled on 13 March. March 13th. The government coalition has had the opportunity to consult on this amendment since 13 March and agree on how it will respond to it. She didn't make it, and it just turned out the way it did today. And today, within the hour, we want to change it and resolve it differently - by bending the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u45	There was one more priority right. If not, Mr Benda, then Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u46	I really just applied to a point of fact that I would like us to go back to that point so that the right point would shine on the board. Now it is not about excise taxes, but no doubt, given the adoption of the objection, we are in the Value Added Tax Act, in the previous paragraph. So I'd like the spreadsheets to fix it. Otherwise, I would like to say that the procedure chosen by social democracy when it massaged its Members to vote differently was simply wrong. You should have proposed a re-examination of the vote, the Rules of Procedure knows it, it would have been no problem. Just to object after the whole law has been passed, against one partial vote, is a fact that never happened here, and you're introducing a very special precedent here. And now I'm not talking about the hour and a half at all. My point is that the law was ended, his legislative process in this House was terminated, voted, everyone who voted for it - and we were not, Minister of Finance, so we were in favour of tax cuts because we did not vote for the whole law, because we also consider green diesel to be a huge mistake that makes an unnecessary hole in the state budget. But if the law was ended, then putting an objection to a partial vote is simply a matter that never happened here and which I guess someone outside this house will have to decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u47	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor. Then Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, there have already been such laps, and I don't think it's gonna add any dignity to anybody's. If I understand correctly, the general debate on point 23 is open, and in that case, I am asking for a break of 60, 55, 50 minutes for the TOP 09 meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-005-999.u49	Yes. In that case, I will grant such a request. I am declaring a break until 3:00 p.m. and given that today has only been set aside until 3:00 p.m., so I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. We'll meet tomorrow because there's an emergency meeting tomorrow, I'm warning you. But this meeting will continue on Friday at 9:00 a.m.
