ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 239/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws /house print 258/ - second reading In view of the apology of the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař, on behalf of the Government, the bill submitted will be presented by Minister Richard Brabec. Before taking the floor, I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Economic Committee. The resolution was delivered to you as a House press 258/1. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u2	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Every minister should be at least a little expansionary, so I've taken the liberty of adopting a new portfolio of registration plates and other things, but then I'll still have my last point where I'll be at home, and there I'll definitely be more experienced. Law No 239/2013 Sb. it came into force in August last year and its effectiveness, with the exception of one provision, was set at 1 January next year. This law, in one of its three thematic areas, newly regulates the issue of registration of road vehicles and the register of road vehicles and the allocation of registration marks. Among other things, it introduces some completely new institutes and procedures in the field of registration marks. These are, for example, so-called tags on request, the possibility of replacing the damaged plate with the designated registration mark without the need to assign a new registration mark and the possibility of issuing a third plate with the registration mark already assigned. The Act also includes a new modification of the information system of technical inspection stations, in which it is a new element of the insertion of data showing the presence of the vehicle at the station, which implies technical equipment on the part of the operator of the STC to enable the acquisition of image records. In the preparation of the implementation of the new legislation contained in this law, it proved -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. If we voted in favour of having an evening meeting, please pay attention to him and let the Minister present this text. Others who will have other debates, please move them into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u4	I'm sorry I haven't delivered my speech yet. I should probably add some more significant gestures. Well, I'll try, but I won't read it from the beginning. In the preparation of the implementation of the new legislation contained in this Act, it was shown that the application of some partial but not key provisions from 1 January next year would be highly likely to cause difficulties in terms of organisational and technical security. It is either impossible to secure their smooth running, or disproportionate costs are potentially associated with their introduction from 1 January. In particular, these are the areas of registration marks mentioned at the request and exchange of damaged tables and the issue of so-called third tables. In view of these facts, in the situation, a shift in the effectiveness of the relevant several provisions of the Law for 12 months appears to be an optimal solution in order to ensure a smooth running and, from a technical point of view, to make use of possible synergies with the preparation of other but technically similar systems. It is therefore proposed to supplement the provisions on the effectiveness of Act No. 239/2013 Sb. so that the effectiveness of the selected provisions is postponed by 12 months. At the same time, a related transitional provision is proposed which, for the period between 1 January 2015 and 1 January 2016, shall apply to the damaged tables the adjustment of the procedure for lost, stolen and destroyed tables. In the light of the above, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies give its consent to the draft law. Okay, you're done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u5	Thank you, Minister Richard Brabco. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ladislav Velebný, take the floor now to replace Mr Karel Šidl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Just a little more patience. I have received an apology from Mr Petr Adam. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Minister has already presented the basic facts here, yet I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 10th meeting of 3 September this year. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the interpretation of the first Deputy Minister of Transport Milan Feranc, the report by Mr Karel Šidl and after a general and detailed debate, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House's Press 258 as amended by the Government Bill. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. He instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this proposal in the Economic Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u7	I thank Mr Ladislav Velebný for the news report. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application. I see Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura's application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. But I'd like my colleagues to let the debaters speak in peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u8	Colleagues and colleagues, if you look at the left or right board and look at the time, you'll find that we've been here for 12 hours today. I understand that there are urgent matters, and that is why it is also in extraordinary times, and I voted in favour of the proposal that extended negotiations after 21st hour, but I did not really think that the Minister of Transport would be here on this point. The fact that the Minister of the Environment is smiling is not over. I have a lot of specific questions, and I don't know if you'll be able to answer them. These are prepared materials, I understand that too, I did it x-times for other colleagues, however with some of the passages you read, I simply cannot agree because they do not correspond to reality. I also have a specific amendment prepared, which I wanted to justify and then read in a detailed debate. However, I would first load two - no, I'll just give one, I won't suggest a long adjournment. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies adjourn or adjourn until the Minister arrives. If this goes through, we can go to the next one, if it doesn't pass, so I will speak with specific questions and with specific reservations about this bill. It's not a thing that's trivial. Although the bill is short, there are three things, virtually. Two, I don't have a problem with the papalasian brands, it can easily be postponed by a year, two, three, it's really not a problem, but the technical control stations are a problem. The law was passed last August, everyone had 16 months to prepare for it. Of course, the good guys did it, and they invested money, and maybe some of them aren't able to catch up or maybe they're not able to catch up with the Department of Transport. And now we're supposed to say it's just moving away like it's a technical thing. It's not a technical thing. So just by chance, if it didn't pass, I'd like an answer to how many tech control stations we have, how many tech control stations are already equipped today, because some of them had it on their own before we legalized it, because they knew that some of their customers wanted it, and then they're able to prove to the customers that the work was done in the quality and at the price that the customers paid. And how much is missing. And the excuses that there was little time for it when the minister joined in January and had 11 months to implement the applicable law, at least at official level, I do not know how to politically, what was done during the reign of Jiří Rusnok, whether it was worked intensively, medium or little, but certainly also at the level of the official, working, was done since August. Maybe sooner. Because we've been discussing the law in the Chamber of Deputies and the Economic Committee for months, and we've been patiently looking for a match until we found that match. The law also includes important provisions relating to another bill proposal, i.e. liability insurance for the operation of a motor vehicle, when the problem is de facto solved, and we are dealing with it by another law, but I do not want to delay it at this time. So for the moment, I'm going to end my speech and I'd like to ask for a vote on this motion to interrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your procedural proposal will be voted without debate. I'm just checking you out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will continue to engage so that those who have listened to me and brought their discussions into the foyer can return in time. Of course, I will be voting on your procedural proposal to interrupt this point by the arrival of the Minister of Transport. I just started voting order number 50. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Of the 116 present for 51, versus 45. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going, then. Mr. Stanjura reporting once more. I think he's gonna specify his questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u10	I think my performance's gonna be longer, so you can't get rid of me so fast, and you can't get rid of the problem that fast. You can't just do that. If you think we're gonna do this quickly just because you want to have a comma, and the minister isn't here and he's not willing, then I think we should talk a little bit more about the bill, the current version, or talk about what the proposals bring and what they mean. Let's try to go back two years, when we were discussing here, I remember the number of the House press to this day, it was 707, it was one of the longest press in the Economic Committee. The former Chairman of the Economic Committee Milan Urban will certainly confirm that we have been patiently looking for a match for months. We've worked it out, and I agree with that, three things. The key thing was a new registration system to avoid inaccuracies, but also fraud, when at this point, I don't know if you all know it, there are so-called. semi-transfers that create confusion in the register, and then it's the enforcement of mandatory liability for motor vehicles. In practice, it means that today, according to the applicable legislation, if you sell a car, you come to your competent authority, mostly it's a Trojan community, and you unsubscribe the car. However, the new owner must come to his office again and register the car. And many deliberately don't do that, i.e. They pay the purchase price, get the motor vehicle, get the keys and drive the uninsured vehicle. A buyer in good faith thinks he's not involved because he sold the car, checked it out legally, and he thinks it's all right. And in a few years he will receive a letter, and rather harsh, I also blame the Czech insurer's office, which claims it: But sir, here in the register you are listed as owner or operator of this motor vehicle and we have found that you have not paid the mandatory liability for three years. And you owe us so much and so much, and if you don't pay us, there's gonna be more legal action, this, this, execution, etc. We managed to solve this problem, that from 1 January one operation will be carried out, and either both will come together, the seller and the buyer, or one of them will come with full power, that he can do it for the other side. That means the question so called. semi-transfers will be resolved and this problem will not arise. Then it's clear that whoever doesn't pay does that on purpose. Either he forgot, but it's his responsibility, or he just doesn't want to pay, and he's counting on it not to happen. I note that insurance pays for the damage caused by the culprit of a car accident to another vehicle. Not my own. This means a problem that a group of Members is trying to solve in a different way, it has been solved for 14 months. The new law, which we are to discuss at this meeting, will not resolve the retrospective problems that have arisen, and new cases have been resolved since 1 January 2015. But that's a debate on the next law. The second major circuit was the technical inspection stations. I'm going to jump to the third one, which I think was really small, it's registration plates on request, I call it the papaya brands. It's supposed to be legalized in the sense that whoever wants to have 88888 or all the sevens like James Bond is gonna pay for it. I think it's fair. I don't think a normal person throws money away for that. If anyone wants it or wants Bond 007 written on it, they'll just pay for it. In this case, I say, there is no problem with removing the effectiveness of these paragraphs, because I think that income would not be significant either, and if we do not allow those brand lovers to do so, nothing will happen. It really doesn't matter to most citizens, rather the poor are the ones who happen to get a brand, which is then labeled as a papalasian. For example, it is found that someone is the year 1973 and the last four digits are by chance 1973, and already the neighbors interpret: Look, he has established a mark at the office which is exactly according to his date of birth, respectively. the year of birth to remember it better, because most of us remember the date of our birth better than the number of the license plate, today the registration plate. [[21.10 hours]] Then we tried to solve a problem that many of us know about, and that is the problem with the technical inspection stations. I want to make it clear that the vast majority of companies and businessmen involved in this are honest. It's not like everyone who does... Vice-President, if you'd like to give me some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u11	Once again, I ask all colleagues on the left and right, especially the crowds in front of the entrance, to transfer their discussions into the lobby and to let colleague Stanjura explain his reservations about the text of the law. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u12	Since the Ministry of Transport is responsible for the inspection, we have been looking for mechanisms that would really be effective. We found the current text, i.e. There must be a record of how the vehicle was taken, how it moved. Whoever was on the STK with his personal vehicle knows how it's going. I have to say, I don't have a personal experience with trucks or buses as it goes on, but I suppose it's much longer and more careful. I want to remind you that originally the proposal was for it to apply from 1. 7. 2015. Then, even after the debate with the professional public and with all those involved, we said, just in case, we will add six months. And we gave - 1. 7. 2014, I'm sorry. We added six months to be sure and got to the date of 1 January 2015. Today we have 18 September 2014 - I would like to know the statistics of what the current situation is - and it proposes to accommodate those who failed or could not, and I note that it may well be the Ministry of Transport, it may not be just those who provide these services, and with reason that there are some concerns that it might not work, it will be a year away. If there really is a mistake on the side of the Ministry of Transport, it is clearly a failure of the state administration. Sixteen and a half months is no short period, and the administration itself originally proposed a shorter period of six months and we, the Chamber of Deputies, extended the time by six months. And now we know it's not enough. This means those who, I say, invested honestly, prepared themselves, will be beaten again for believing that the law that was passed - I note, by a large majority, was not the law that divided us into coalitions and oppositions - so that its effectiveness will eventually be postponed. I didn't hear the relevant justification for the displacement. I say this is one point that I would like to propose for launch, of the three that the minister is proposing. At this point, I'm going to interrupt my performance again for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u13	I thank my colleague Stanjur. I'm asking who's applying. Minister Richard Brabec will respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I am not very likely to be able to answer all the detailed questions, I would like to propose that this item be interrupted by Tuesday next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-012-015.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your suggestion. Since this is a different proposal, it is not until the arrival of the Minister of Transport, but it is specified by the exact date, it is another proposal. We didn't vote for him, we're voting for him. I guess I don't have to check you out. Initiating vote number 51 and asking who is in favour of this proposal, interrupting this item by next week. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 51, of the 121 Member present for 100, against no one, the proposal was adopted. We interrupt item number 15, press hearing 258. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Let's continue with point 16. Fixed point number
