ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u1	138. The draft law amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws /German press 291/4/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 291/5. I welcome Senator Miloš Vystnut among us. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Mr Andrej Babiš speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before you is again the so-called proper amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which was returned to the Senate on 10 December 2014, with amendments. The first is the annual deferral of the provisions, which define more precisely the conditions for exemption from value added tax for immovable property, respectively. the application of this tax to construction land. The second amendment will allow the payers of natural persons during the quarterly tax period to submit control reports together with tax returns, i.e. for a calendar quarter. I would like to add that the Ministry of Finance has expressed a favourable opinion on the wording of the amendment to the Act, as approved by the Senate. The Ministry of Finance's staff directly contributed to the formulation of the first amendment. At the same time, it has been verified that the second amendment is applicable in practice, although it leads to the combined application of the old and new text of the Act during 2015. I would just add that the audit report was designed de facto inexhaustibly from the point of view of the financial administration. We've been discussing this for a long time. I know somebody's gonna laugh again, but on Friday, Kobra arrested a group of tax frauds who robbed us of 330 miles. Crowns. This organized crime, which mainly operates with legal entities, so the financial administration argued that it could actually move into natural persons. We have abandoned it after various discussions. I would just like to say that the average age of a company that does tax fraud on our state budget is 24 days, and the record age of such a company is 8 hours. That means someone started the company, robbed us of VAT, and liquidated the company in eight hours. That's a record. Of course, we came forward because we think that most quartal payers are honest payers, but after the debate in the Senate and in the committees and within the resort and within the various associations, we actually participated in the amendment and therefore agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u3	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the budget committee of Mr Votava whether he wishes to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I think that the Senate has essentially left the most important thing in the amendment to the law that the amendment follows in the fight against tax evasion. The two amendments, one of which is therefore delaying reporting, reporting for 3 months or within a period of 3 months, I think it has come to the attention of entrepreneurs and businessmen, so I also accept this as rapporteur. I think that the first amendment also has its logic, so, of course, as rapporteur, I recommend that we adopt the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u5	I thank you, and I am now opening the debate. In the debate, Senator Miloš Vystrčil will be the first to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has been carefully discussing the amendment to the VAT Act and has found more shortcomings in the amendment than are contained in the amendments I am proposing to you today. In order to make it possible in some way to negotiate the law in the House, we have finally limited ourselves to the submission of two amendments. The first, as has already been said here, concerns a leap change in the price of the construction land due to the fact that the construction land from 1. 1. 2015, if you did not accept the amendment, in some cases, the rate of VAT would be 21 per cent, which would make it more expensive for both investors and clients in particular. We believe that if it is to be true that this government and the legislative body want to support the investment and development of the Czech Republic, it is not possible to prepare such conditions for investors and their clients that we will suddenly do nothing but increase their property without any prior notice. Another thing that is still found in the law that we received from the Chamber of Deputies and actually from the Ministry of Finance is that it is not clear at all which land will be or will not be building, because the law also contains the wording that a building land will become a land to be touched by an administrative act, and no one defines exactly what an administrative act is. The Chamber of Tax Advisors has quite a problem with this, whether it is only an act carried out by the Building Office or whether it is necessary for the decision of the council to change the zoning plan or approve the development strategy etc. For these reasons, we have finally proposed in our Amendment No. 1 to postpone the price increase of the construction land or the burden by the rate of VAT, by a year and that Section 56 and related Section 56a should enter into force only from 1. 1. 2016. If this amendment is approved in the Chamber of Deputies, this will help our investors and their clients. The second amendment concerns control reports. Here, and it agrees with the findings of the Financial Directorate and Financial Administration, it turns out that it is pointless to burden monthly inspection reports by natural persons who report VAT quarterly, and therefore by amendment we ask you to exempt these natural persons who are undertaking VAT quarterly, from the monthly transmission of inspection reports, and that such inspection reports can also be sent quarterly by those natural persons. For your information, it concerns 231 thousand - 231 thousand - small entrepreneurs and businessmen. So, in brief, this is the content of the two amendments that we are proposing to you. Finally, I would like to point out that, for example, our amendments do not address the problems that may arise with the cost of social housing, we do not solve other issues, other shortcomings that occur in the law, but that was not in our power, because we had less than 30 days to discuss the law. In general, I would like to say that the Senate feels very negatively if tax laws are sent to the Senate at the end of the calendar year. It's -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u7	Senator, I'm so sorry to interrupt, but I'm gonna ask my colleagues to really keep their voices down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u8	It's like, for example, the school principal started painting at school on August 25. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u9	Thank you, too. In addition to the microphone of another registered with Mr Laudát's priority right, Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Here's what I want to say for TOP 09 today. We're supposed to make choices between bad and worse. The Senate has slightly improved the amendment of the law, but it is simply unacceptable for us both the original proposal, where we voted against, as well as the Senate version. Therefore, the TOP 09 will vote, however the vote goes, even if I hear it from two coalition parties, it has already been said that they like the Senate proposal, so I think you're voting for it. As far as your own approach is concerned. The Minister of Finance is going to try something here, and then he's going to let it go into the world when he accidentally gets his fingers crossed, which now happened in the Senate, and it didn't just happen in this case, but it happened in a few other cases, so he's actually not gonna blink, he's not blinking, and he's just like nothing's happening and he's gonna turn it around like it's okay, too. I don't know how much longer we're gonna be guinea pigs, that the coalition isn't even able to negotiate a deal with its majority in the Senate, to presume those laws so that it's not to this extent. Because we're gonna be sitting here permanently, if there's a legislative crisis on the part of the government coalition. She, for God's sake, hasn't been a big shrink yet, even though gentlemen and ladies will be sitting there for a whole year. I think it says something. Here you can see exactly the real legislative quality of the Ministry of Finance. Some resorts are totally busted up, like traffic, but nothing's going public again. There's nothing going on in the media like Mr. Prachař hasn't been sitting there for almost a year. In the last parliamentary term, we were very hard attacked by the opposition and especially social democracy when, in 2011 in an effort to face the crisis that was increasing, we increased every day, every hour, to plug holes that flowed into the budget of the Czech Republic. So it was also true at the end of the year when we were forced to call the House. Here, we were completely ruthlessly and brutally criticized by Prime Minister Sobotka, the President of Social Democracy, then, of course, from the opposition post. And if you had pulled a stern out of that period, you wouldn't be surprised how hard he charged with a coalition he called a zombie, there were also words about crushed skulls, which is why it is written: laughter from members of the ČSSD. We are not going to use this expression in crushed skulls - I am not going to use this expression here, but we are not going to laugh, and certainly not in Advent time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u11	I'm gonna ask my colleagues to really keep their voices down. If you have something to do, do so in the foyer so that we do not have to interrupt the speakers all the time and we can continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u12	And from the part that I would have there - just a few torn sentences from the mouth of today's Prime Minister: These proposals have not been pre-negotiated and have not even been agreed with the parliamentary opposition. These bills were not and have not been dealt with by government parties with the Czech Social Democratic Party. As Social Democrats, we believe that such serious changes in the key public systems in our country should be discussed. And another and another these sentences. [[10.20 hours]] If you take it through the carpet, I think we're in an even less comfortable situation, but we're in politics and we have to endure a lot. But Mr. Babiš, the Minister of Finance, has admitted here that the Senate proposal is better that it is acceptable. So he actually doesn't believe them when he's making his laws here. I don't know how long it's gonna take you to make some kind of pre-negotiation at all levels so that key laws can apply. Of course you put businessmen in an awkward position. And this is not a crisis, it is still 2% or 2% growth in the economy. They don't know what they're gonna do after January one. Or maybe you'll shift it quarterly, some changes. This isn't really going to work. The media can write and say anything, this is a real picture of your coalition's functioning. Unfortunately, when you approve some of these amendments, you will begin to discover that they are not functional, that you will cause a lot of damage. Against that, money for saved paper will be nothing against what you do for tax evasion, efficiency of collection, et cetera, et cetera. So in conclusion, I repeat the TOP 09 position again. We won't support either of those versions of the law. I believe that if you were to subject her to a hard discussion or even a discussion in the professional public among businessmen, you might have come up with a third, fourth, fifth option. This nation is a guinea pig. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u13	Now, please contact Mr Petr Fiala's microphone with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would like to wish you a pleasant Christmas holiday, but I cannot do it yet, and I fear that even those who are subject to this obligation cannot have a pleasant Christmas yet, or may be concerned with the obligation to submit inspection reports next year, because in the second half of December they still do not know what they will have to do next year. The Senate is returning a bill amendment to us here with similar comments as here, and I'm sure you'll remember that well, the Civil Democrats were bringing it up in the Chamber of Deputies. We've got the wrong novel on the table again. A bad novel prepared by the Minister of Finance Babiš. We pointed it out, now the Senate confirmed it, and confirmed it by the voices of their government senators. We are in principle opposed to the introduction of control reports, because we want to protect the freedom of business and not burden businessmen and entrepreneurs with other and other measures that complicate their lives. We also believe that the failure of the state to collect taxes cannot burden and damage honest entrepreneurs, and we will do everything we can to protect them. If you recall, we have tabled an amendment here through me, which did not go through just four votes, because it was also supported by some Members of Social Democracy and KDU-ČSL. The similar amendment finally passed through the Senate, for which I thank my fellow Members from the Senate. However, it does not correct this bad and useless novel enough. I would remind on several points our main arguments against the mandatory inspection report. Really, very briefly: 1. It will affect a quarter of a million entrepreneurs who are VAT payers. 2. It will cost these entrepreneurs up to 1.37 billion each year. Crowns. 3. He takes it away from them every month, and that's the government's estimate, three and a half hours of their time. 4. It means at least the sixth and certainly not the last amendment to tax laws in this period. 5. It's a preparatory step towards the introduction of registration cash registers. 6. It's actually another desire of the state to record, control, watch our every move. We've pointed out all these dangers. It's a good thing the senators realized it. However, there is one problem that needs to be recalled again, and that is that the government has not submitted one of the important amendments to the VAT Act on time, so now, two weeks before the end of the year, it has put all the entrepreneurs involved into uncertainty. It's actually contempt for businessmen who don't know how it's going to be from the beginning of next year on December 22. And the fact that this is poorly prepared and that this is the misguided work of the Ministry of Finance, is confirmed here also by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, because how else do you explain that his ministry itself participated in the Senate's preparation of amendments to this amendment, which he and Prime Minister Sobotka so vehemently defended here? But it is not the only thing that this government does not identify entrepreneurs and worsens the business environment. This amendment is the first step towards the introduction of registration cash registers. Prime Minister Sobotka has just said last week that the amendment on electronic records of sales is the most important task of the government for next year in its legislative plan. And the Treasury tells us how used we are, just half the truth or not, that most entrepreneurs are for the introduction of registration cash registers. If we look at the data that the Treasury is coming from, we'll find something else. Only 20 percent of entrepreneurs own a cash register that, after adjustments, could support the intended system, 78 percent of businesses do not even have credit card terminals. Although 37 percent of companies agree with the introduction of registration cash registers, only 20 percent agree with the introduction of registration cash registers in their field. That means in other words, they say yes, let the registers be introduced, but certainly not in our kind of business. And 71 percent of domestic companies oppose the introduction of registration cash registers in the field in which they operate. So, ladies and gentlemen, this Ministry of Finance looks like the support given by the business sector for the introduction of registration cash registers. If the government had not increased its operational spending, increased its background for growing bureaucracy, it would not have had to burden small businessmen and entrepreneurs with this nonsense. To sum it up: What we have here and what is going on next year is nothing more than more and more socialism every day. This is also in line with the newly announced legislative plan of the government for next year. When we look at the fundamental laws that are mentioned there, it is the law on the proof of the origin of property, as priorities the government appoints a lottery law, an anti-discrimination law, a law on the central register of contracts, a law on the financing of political parties and so on and so on. I'm asking: Are these really laws to support the growth of the economy to help families with children, taxpayers? Are these laws that will ensure a better future, better funding research, enough money for investment, less bureaucracy in this country? No, ladies and gentlemen. It's all just more regulation, more complications, more checks. It's a record, it's a distrust of honest citizens in this country. And I would beg all of you to realize that what we are approving here right now is one of the steps on this path, a step completely unnecessary, which exposes the uncertainty and quite unnecessary burden of our entrepreneur. Ladies and gentlemen, for these very reasons, even though the Senate has adopted a sensible amendment, the citizens' democrats will vote against this bill, against this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u15	Thank you and we must now deal with three factual points - Mr Volný, then Mr Farský, Mr Plzák, and then Minister Babiš with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, my colleague, I would like to correct Mr Fiala, the speaker, on behalf of the President. This Act on the Statement is valid only from 1. 1. Therefore, they are not immediately faced with the completion of the investigation. He says he wants to protect honest businessmen. It is precisely because this law or this amendment does not protect honest entrepreneurs, because this amendment should address tax fraud, that it should deal with cheaters who do not admit and pay tax, thereby favouring their business environment and paying for it by honest entrepreneurs. That means if you're here to say that you're protecting honest businessmen with your attitude, it's completely the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u17	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Farský's de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to wish you a wonderful Christmas, good luck in the new year. Let me ask you one more question. Today we are discussing two prints that the Senate returned at its meeting at the beginning of December. But there was also a meeting on December 18 at which three laws were returned to the Ministry of Finance, two of which were supposed to be effective from 1 January 2015, and because they are prints, especially the 294 press that went from the House, it is a law that was supposed to significantly affect all associations, organizations that depend on grants and subsidies from public budgets, so precisely because of them I would like to ask what stage this law is, what rules will apply next year, because we have on 22 December and often it is not clear, and in a fundamental way, the support of federal activity is delayed due to this delayed legislation. So I would like to ask the minister here, what rules next year in these thousands 292, 294 and 295 will be set and what dimension will they operate in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u19	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Plzák's de facto Member. Mr Kalousek will then be prepared with effect. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u20	Madam President, honourable members of the government, my fellow Members, I had to respond to the speech of President Fiala's previous speaker and to the part where he was so jealous of the electronic record of sales. Just to remind you: the decision of the last government from January next year should have put health professionals ahead of the possibility, virtually. Inability to prescribe medication through a paper recipe. There was supposed to be a big bureaucratic thing going on here, which means that drugs should only be prescribed in electronic form, that is, everyone, even the smallest detour in the largest place had to be connected to the data repository, when the whole prescription process consisted of you sending something there, they'll send you back a code within ten minutes and the patient will be waiting for that time. So what I'm saying is that the government is supposed to be harassing somebody, the last government has prepared the same thing for the paramedics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u21	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Kalousek in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u22	Good morning. Very briefly, what Mr Volný said, that this amendment should, or that this law should protect honest businessmen from the dishonest ones. Yes, he should. Just as the road to hell is paved with good intentions. The reality will be this, and we will know it in the post-election period that the dishonest will find a way around it, the honest will be burdened with it. Do you, through - not on behalf of - Madam President, do you think that if it were so miraculous and so great, the countries that the Minister likes to set an example, such as Austria or Germany, would not have done so by now? They didn't do it. In the 15-year-old countries, it only works in two countries, it works very problematicly and with absolutely unproven results. That's why the other countries, like Austria so many times called, never did, because it only bothers the honest businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u23	Thank you. And we have two more factual ones - Mr Votava, Mr Volný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Just two comments on what Mr. Fiala said here. First of all, he confused the effectiveness of reporting those checks, because it's not from 1. 1. 2015, but from 1. 1. 2016, which means that entrepreneurs are not immediately exposed to the pressure to do something right away, but have about a year to prepare for it. That's the first thing. The second thing, my colleague, through Madam President. You're always swaying, and in quotes, you're fighting to lower the administration for businessmen. That's commendable. Yes, by the Senate amendment, I admit that if the deadline for three months is reduced, some administrative burden will be reduced. But what I want to say. If we hadn't accepted this amendment, it would have been from 1. 1. 2015 we have added about 300 tradesmen who would fall as VAT payers, because of course the limit for compulsory registration would be reduced from one million to 750 thousand turnover and this presents 300,000 tradesmen. Of course, there is work to be done with VAT reporting. It is. A confession must be given, so there is an administrative burden in this. So please, if you want to criticize, you also have to look back into your own ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u25	Thank you for complying with the time limit and please, with the de facto Mr Volný. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u26	Thank you, Madam President. This time, through Madam President, I would like to answer my colleague Kalousek. Of course he's right. It's not in Austria. Not in Germany either. But in these countries it is customary to pay taxes. It's a habit of breathing, like eating, like drinking. Unfortunately, after 25 years of clondajka in the Czech Republic it is not customary. And I really want to stand up for honest businessmen. And most of them, God bless them. But we have to set some rules of the game here to make it a habit like it is in Austria, like it is in Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u27	Thank you. And now with the de facto Mr Kalousek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u28	Thank you. Mr Volný, through Madam President, please do not take all the same meters. If you cheated with taxes in Agrofert, you have no reason to say that everyone else does. [[A round of applause for Members of the TOP 09.]] On Mr Votava's argument, I would like to point out that this was typically an unfair out of context. Yes, yes, if you didn't accept tax amendments, the VAT limit for businessmen would be down to 750 grand. In addition, by 16 billion they would be reduced by direct contributions from social and health insurance and personal taxes and would pay direct contributions to one place and would be checked from one place, which would make this tax burden in order to be balanced. You have taken one small detail out of context and denied that you have damaged many billions and displacements by your tax amendments to businessmen and businesses, eliminating tax burdens. So say it in one piece. Tell the whole thing what your novels mean, you raised their taxes and you increased their tax burden.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u29	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u30	I would like to point out the great contradiction in the logic of Mr Volný's speech. He said: Most entrepreneurs are honest and pay taxes. I totally agree with that. But then it's customary and it's customary to pay taxes. And since a minority, I would say that a significant minority is dishonest, so your measure is flat and falls entirely on everyone. So I don't know why the entrepreneurs, the most honest, who pay taxes as well as their colleagues in Germany and Austria, are against your proposed recipes. We keep saying we should look west. And here I hear a year - Slovakia and Croatia. So I looked into the atlas just in case. It's really not west. So it's either customary law, and most pay taxes, or we're on clondajka, like you said, and most don't pay taxes. He can't pay both! Most people are decent, most entrepreneurs are decent and pay taxes! And you want to burden them again with more and more regulations. Then I'll talk about other things that you're increasing their administration in the proper application. But you have to choose - either taxes are paid majority, and then it's customary, and it's not a clondajk, or it's not. He can't pay both!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u31	I now request a microphone with the de facto Mr Laudát. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u32	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if Mr. Volný has ever lived in Austria or in some Western society that he's based his claims on. If you take not data, but really really, we agree with these neighbouring countries, plus minus mentality, and it is not what you say it is through Madam President. You just want to tie huge balls to the legs of all people who could potentially form or form a middle layer. That's what this is about. You want to build capitalism here, to say the South American type. Poisoning people, taking them, spying on them. That's yours. And this novel just fits into what Chairman Fiala said about you building socialism. The reality may be somewhere between Soviet socialism and South American capitalism. That's what you're after. And I really don't understand when some of you in the YES movement were doing business that you weren't ashamed to come up with laws like that. And to your chairman - that you can't, or you're afraid - what you're saying here in the gallows... You know, I'll tell you one thing. He'll take as much as you let him do in his own party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u33	Thank you. And now I no longer see any factual point. Minister Babiš withdrew his application for the debate. With proper application by Mr Stanjura. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u34	Thank you for the floor. When we had a debate here last week about who goes to work more and who gets worse results from the vote, the Minister of Finance praised himself by having the largest number of laws submitted. He's forgotten to say that the largest number of laws returned from the Senate is always the other half of the truth. I'm only based on the data contained in the explanatory memorandum, and that's government material. Originally, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we were supposed to have one VAT amendment! And as stated in the explanatory memorandum, someone in the Treasury decided that we would have two VAT amendments this year. It's about the stability you keep repeating, and yet you're acting different. So the first amendment, to remind you, was the House Press 214 and the second amendment to the House Press 291. You can already see the proximity of the numbers that it couldn't react. This means that the government is simultaneously discussing two amendments to the VAT Act. Both of them went through the House at a record pace. As a government majority, you voted that we would not properly discuss the amendment of tax laws. In the House press 214 first reading was on 10 June, the deadline reduced to 10 days, second reading on 15 July, the deadline reduced to 48 hours. Approved July 23rd. And on September 4th, another novel is coming to the House. Because they couldn't make it to the Treasury Department, two of them were made from one novel. If you look at the explanatory report of this amendment, which is so important to the government coalition - and Mr Volný is wrong about the effectiveness, we are not in a hurry that it must apply from 1 January 2015. You're in such a hurry! Why did you shorten the deadlines between first and second readings? Why are we acting 10 days after the Senate's return? You're in a hurry from January 1, 2015! So don't take my chairman's word for it, who said it exactly right. Is the opposition pushing you on January 1, 2015? You're pushing us all here to quickly approve this, so that it will be effective from 1 January 2015. You forgot to tell those entrepreneurs what bureaucratic waste you've brought them since January 1, 2015. I don't know which one of you filled out the VAT report last year or year before, whether monthly or quartal. The reverse charge today was filled out by those who bought greenhouse gas allowances and those who had a construction activity or who had an invoiced construction activity. That means the vast majority didn't fill it out. You reverse charge under the cape of the fight against tax evasion extend to things of common consumption! Cell phones, tablets, laptops. Did you tell the tradesmen that if they bought a tablet on January 3rd, they would show VAT differently and they wouldn't get it back? If he buys a cell phone, they're gonna fill out VAT otherwise? And when the monthly ones mistake for the first time in January 25th February, do you think the financial office will approach them generously? No way! And they'll really have time, because if you approve today, it'll come out in the Collection - maybe 29, maybe 30. - and will have seven weeks to register a fundamental change in the submission of tax returns in matters of normal consumption. And that's what we call reverse charge, because that's what the carousels do. I don't know how many tablets, laptops, cell phones, carousels. If it is true that the average age or duration of a company that commits carousel fraud is 25 days, that is less than one VAT period! Every businessman knows that when out of nowhere the state is to return VAT, very often comes control. That's right. And he's gonna check that the statement in that month is justified or not. And here we're talking about these measures going to hit the smallest ones that don't have economist teams! Big companies with a big economic department, for them the reverse charge is not a problem. It's for the others. And it's not that easy to fill it out properly. In addition to the money that the businessman can expect, he'll get much later. I don't know how we're going to define devices that contain an integrated circuit or circuit board. I don't know if the plaintiffs know what's in it and who's gonna judge it! After three years, I'm afraid the Financial Authority will come to the audit and say, "But watch out! You guys had some kind of integrated circuit here! You couldn't ask for a refund. You broke the law. Additional tax. An additional confession. Additional costs... Totally useless. That's not what the debate is about. We know very well that the 2016 audit report and it is quite smiling that some important members of the budget committee are now reminding us that this is the case. [[unintelligible]] Well, we haven't forgotten. And what have these entrepreneurs been preparing since January? Do we know what the inspection report will look like? When there was a suggestion that at least the basic parameters of the inspection report be in the law, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government camp, rejected this! What can you prepare for if no one knows what it will look like? Maybe the Minister already knows, maybe he can tell us in the debate what the inspection report will look like. I was very interested in the cross-check. Mr. Senator Vyšil, as the Treasury officials always said, when they described it, they passionately defended it on the committees in the House and said, "This is how the cross control will be, like this! [[It shows tight hands on the right and left.]] But in what format will entrepreneurs submit the data so that the check is possible? What's that? In PDF? Have you ever checked two documents in the PDF Cross? You can't do that with software! You can't really do that with software. Or are you going to force them to be an Office and they're going to have to buy some software that allows it, and you're going to prescribe tables? Because then, logically, it can be programmed! Or are you going to prescribe the databases in which it has to be provided? Because then you can program it! But from the usual copies, if you have hundreds of thousands of control reports a month or a quarter... [[10.50 hours]] I heard here in the debate that there's an idea that every invoice received will be there. That's tens of millions of data a month. And someone's gonna be like that, cross-checking like that, making sure it fits. [[The Member shall show the hands of the cross]] And I'm asking how? How does that help the honest? Those who have 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 invoices. Who's gonna check the cross that they don't have a fake invoice? I think there's a risk of data leaking here for competing reasons. Who doesn't care how some supplier invokes whether the services provide the competition with the same cost or cheaply as we do, if someone doesn't have better payment terms, a better price? How do we protect the data? How are we supposed to prepare for January 1, 2016 if we don't know what it's gonna look like? And now the most important thing. The law came here on September 4th. With all the short deadlines, you just can't make it. And I wouldn't blame the Senate and the senators. The mistake is on the side of the Treasury. It was supposed to be in the first novel where we voted on the third reading in July. July. I think that is a reasonable term, if there are to be tax changes from 1 January, then voting on this in July is certainly a reasonable term. But not December 22nd. And the reverse charge is supposed to start paying for ten days. Not from 1 January 2016. Nobody did any education about it, no one informed the tradesmen that they had to prepare themselves for filing VAT reports or tax returns otherwise. I was quite surprised today by the reconciliation tone of the Minister of Finance, as he supports the Senate version. He almost told us he actually set it up with his ministry. There wasn't much missing. However, in the Senate, he was plotting for something else entirely. It was, I think, December 8th, it wasn't that long ago, it was two weeks ago. He said that if you accepted the amendment, and the Senate accepted it, and today we will vote on it - and I quote from the tapestry: "this would cause the proposed system to be degraded and an effective instrument to combat tax evasion could become administrative measures with limited effect"." Today, the Minister of Finance is proposing that we degrade his proposed system and produce administrative measures with a limited effect from the point of view of his system of effective tax evasion. And the government's majority is just as excited and ready to vote in favour just as enthusiasticly as they voted in favour when we first discussed it. I would like the Minister of Finance not to yell at me and, Madam Vice-President or anyone else, point out that he should not disturb the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u35	The Minister merely claimed a point of fact. That's his right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u36	And could you say on the microphone how he applied for a factual reminder? There's a button or something like that. [[shows the character for the factual note]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u37	He did it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u38	In addition to having insulting remarks about what I say, this is not really part of the factual reminder. But I quote his words. If he says it's bullshit, as I've heard, it's not my fault. I'm quoting from the Senate's log. I didn't add anything to how he evaluated the proposed change in the Senate 14 days ago before the Senate vote. hle, when the Senate went through this, it flexibly changes its mind and basically says that they worked together as the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, if at least the 14 Members who abstained, when we voted on the very similar amendment by President Petr Fiala, we did not have to renegotiate today. At the time, however, the government and the Ministry of Finance, important members of the budget committee, said: it must be as the government suggests. Turns out the opposition was right. Today they say it must be as the Senate suggests. Why not? It's not the first time or the last time the opposition was right and you didn't want to admit it. It's too bad the Senate has to deal with this for you. He'll have more cases, and we've had more cases. The Chancellor is the Ministry of Finance, in the number of laws passed, and not only in number, but also in percentage to compare absolute numbers and real numbers. About what the chairman of the Votava Budget Committee said about the reduction. My colleague Miroslav Kalousek said so. When you were interfering with the effectiveness of JIM, you simply forgot to cancel the other measures that were logically linked to it. And tonight at the last minute, you're still pretending to be saving something, and it wasn't like that if it wasn't for us. But we interrupted them a few months ago, not December 22. So the government and the Treasury made two instead of one amendment because apparently they weren't able to make it, or I don't know. That's how they put us all under time pressure, that's how they upset the business community. And really, if you approve today, in ten days' time, more bureaucratic measures will take effect on anyone who buys a phone, a laptop, a tablet or other device with an integrated circuit or a board of circuit boards. And only the government is responsible, no one else. It looks like an amendment implementing some European directive, even in the name of our programme there is an EU dash. However, the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum reads: This amendment is submitted under the coalition contract, which was signed in January 2014. The fact that there's a part of something being implemented is true. And we're going back to the usual debate where the government coalition doesn't want to admit that taxes are rising. For example, the 16 billion mentioned by Mr Kalousek, simply entrepreneurs and individuals, increased the taxation of investment funds, I do not know if it concerns all investment funds, which, for example, buy health clinics or not, there is an increase in the tax on land. The senators correctly suggested a delay, but look at the detail - the Department of Labour and Social Affairs for years claims that it is a big problem to define social housing and find out what it is and what it isn't. So the Treasury has already solved it for them. The law defines what social housing is at least in terms of tax laws. I am not sure whether the parameters and areas correspond exactly to social housing or what some of us think of as social housing. The fact that some family houses are labeled social housing seems to me a rather courageous idea that a family house is a social housing. But why not, but I would expect it in another law, in another place, not in the tax law. These are all the main reasons why we cannot support the Senate version, although it is significantly better from the point of view of bureaucracy than the government and the parliamentary version, this must be confessed to fellow Members of the Senate. But they could not correct all the shortcomings and mistakes this amendment brings. That's logical. We will therefore vote against both the Senate and the House's version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u39	Thank you. I now have three factual points. Mr Volný comes with the first, Mr Kalousek prepares himself and then the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Your response and response to your colleague Stanjur. I beg you, what the statement will look like, what the windows will be like, and how it will go through, we have a year of time for that. You know that. You're saying that in July it would be great if we had a year before the end of the year. And two. Why were we in such a hurry to pass this law? It is precisely to protect those 300,000 unfortunates who should now start paying value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u41	I beg you, Mr Kalousek, in fact. Then the Minister of Finance and then Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, not with the insistence on this law anymore, but with the insistence on your awareness, especially of you, colleagues from the ANO 2011 movement with business or academic practice, during Christmas, find the answer in literature or in consultations with the tax advisor to what our Minister of Finance is really feeding you when he is talking about reverse charge, VAT and how it needs to be changed. VAT is a pan-European tax. Yes, there are certain commodities where it is possible to use an exemption to transfer the burden to the final customer, but the fact that it becomes a practice means the collapse of the system. No one will allow this collapse of the system. [[11.00 hours]] What the Minister is presenting here is essentially his desire to make the VAT tax back an old gold turnover tax. Of course, the turnover tax had its advantages and its disadvantages, and VAT also has its advantages and its disadvantages, but the return is not possible. And even if he's here telling you how he's gonna do it at European level, he's just not telling the truth. Just like using reverse charge is worth the commodity where the leaks occur. We have worked very hard for fuel. We didn't make it there. For gold, for scrap, for emission allowances, it makes sense. It doesn't make sense where it doesn't happen, because it increases the tax burden. I'm begging you for a little... Or let's do a seminar. What your minister here says is nonsense, and it will bring no tax return to the future. He doesn't believe it either, because he doesn't put those returns directly into the medium term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u43	Now please, with the de facto Minister of Finance, Babiš. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I thought it would be quiet before Christmas and that I wouldn't be listening to this incredible misinformation. Reverse charge - I repeat the facts according to the European Union, year 2012 177 billion. EUR unpaid VAT. I organized the seminar. The seminar was attended by the Minister of Finance of Germany, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia, and I also told the Prime Minister of France and the President of Poland about this in recent weeks. So in the Czech Republic it's 22 percent, 3.2 billion. EUR is potential, 108 billion each year. They arrested one crew on Friday at the reverse charge by 330 miles. We were robbed. So if anyone doesn't want to understand, then they don't understand. And we want the European Union to give us the freedom to decide. Today there are frauds for marketing services, wine, beer and mineral oils. And we have to ask the European Union to justify it, and that will take a year, instead of making a decision, and quickly, because this is organized crime. I don't know why Mr. Stanjura's talking about January 1st, if that's not true. The reverse charge you're talking about, the pills, etc., will be valid from April 1st, so it's time. It's not true that we're introducing registers, it's a lie! So it's interesting that all these projects are supported by the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, Mr Havlíček, Mr Danda, that's another association of tradesmen. And all honest businessmen are positive about it. And I was also pleasantly surprised that research among companies, 38 percent of companies welcome it. So I really don't know, since January 1st, it's not true that anything has changed. Nothing changes. And the fiction Mr Kalousek here has introduced that we're raising taxes, so it's the same as if I were proposing a law with effect from 1. 1. 2018, that taxes will be zero. [[Time warning]] That's the same lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u45	Minister, I'm sorry, but your two minutes are up. Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u46	I don't think we're listening to each other. I didn't question reverse charge as an instrument. I questioned specific commodities relating to ordinary consumer goods. Notice what the Minister was talking about: fuel, alcohol, beer, marketing services. Did you hear cell phones, tablets, integrated circuits? You didn't hear! That's what I'm criticizing! I'm not criticizing the fight against those... And these are critical and crisis commodities. We're in agreement on that. There's also a different kind of money than when you buy three phones and you have to report it differently. I'm sorry, I was wrong about three months, I have no reason not to admit to that mistake. But that doesn't change anything. So they belong to alcohol, fuel, wine, beer, and marketing services of those cell phones? Well, it doesn't. That's what we criticize. Not the instrument itself. I'm sure there are commodities that are worth it. And there are commodities where we can support it. Unfortunately, not in these, because they're really going to land for everyone. Whereas by far not everyone is in business with fuel, alcohol, beer, what the Minister of Finance was talking about. And to protect the 300 grand. tradesmen. So that's where you just forgot when you moved that JIM, and you forgot it at first reading, at second reading, at third reading, when defending the committees, say it as an argument. Because the arguments you've been using up to this day have been refuted, so at the last moment, you've found another argument. And we're here criticizing the time we're discussing this. If the D.O.D. had made it in time and it was in the first novel that went to the Senate in July, we weren't under any time pressure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u47	Thank you. I have three further factual points - Mr Petr Fiala, Mr Farský and Mr Laudát. Mr Petr Fiala, please. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u48	Thank you. Just a comment on what the Minister of Finance said that what we said here about the introduction of electronic sales registers is a lie. Let me quote the reason message on this novel. It says: "At the same time, it is necessary to realise that the introduction of the control report cannot be perceived in isolation, but it is necessary to link it mainly with the planned introduction of electronic sales records, where these two measures will significantly contribute to the suppression of tax evasion and create a conceptual solution of timeless nature. " So all you have to do is look at your explanatory note to make it clear that it's not a lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u49	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Farský's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u50	Thank you for the floor. I just want to repeat the question, because I didn't get an answer from the Minister. On 18 December, last Thursday, in the Senate, three of the press brought by the Minister were rejected. All three have a significant impact on citizens. One of them is crucial in that according to him is the support of associations where millions of people are in the Czech Republic. My question was: What rules will apply from 1. 1. 2015 when these prints were issued as extremely important that they had to pay from 1 January? And now it's more or less clear if we're not surprised by the call of an emergency meeting on December 29, 30 or 31 that these prints won't be valid. So what are the rules going to be? Because it is really about supporting millions of people in the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u51	Thank you, and with another de facto Mr Laudát, Mr Chalupa will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u52	Thank you for the floor. It's not the first time, Minister, I feel a clear contradiction between what you're saying here and what you have in the materials you're a translator of. That was for the state budget, it was, of course, and it's for medium-term prospects. I really don't know what to think anymore. So either throw out your subordinates, or at least read them. But you really, there are things that are different than what you're saying. And about the pre-Christmas peace. You know, businessmen never had, except maybe some beginnings on roses made. And now you're giving them an absolutely crucial blow, if you get it. You bought certain social groups with the Prime Minister with a rather significant addition of salaries, but the question is: Once you have liquidated the ruins of the middle class, whose golden backbone are entrepreneurs, what will you pay for it? Then you start nationalizing? Or which way do you go after that? The middle class is disappearing not only in our country - if it was created at all, that is the question. But she's disappearing in developed countries and just the kind of policy you're pushing around here. I don't know if your fellow partyers and your teammates realize what you're doing. Ask the real tax advisors with what this law is now, and not just this law, what you come up with. [[11.10 hours]] I don't know why you should bully. If you take it, how many people in our country are committing crime? It's three percent of people - I don't know the statistics, I guess Minister Chovanec would say - from backpacker to the most serious. And you, in the name of maybe one percent, two percent of people, cheaters, thugs terrorize the rest of the country. I can't help it, I can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u53	Ambassador, your time! Thank you. And now, please, with another de facto Member of the Chalupa. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u54	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I won't keep you long, only to the lords of the pastors. Please, let us dwell on what the House has to discuss today, not what it will discuss when something from the Senate gets here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u55	Thank you and again with the de facto Mr Laudát, then Mr Kalousek. [[He's taking precedence.]] So Mr Kalousek was given priority. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u56	Thank you for the floor. Your way to Mr Chaloupek: But that is exactly what we are doing! Cottage - I'm sorry. That's what we do! This is exactly the same mechanism as when, for example, the EU refuses to sell the chemicals used for execution to the United States. Also, someone might say to them, "Please, now sell them the chemicals and deal with this business, and if there is to be an execution, then talk about it afterwards. That's exactly it! You're knitting a hanged man's rope here, and it bothers you that we're already talking about hanging - but what else are we supposed to talk about when you're already knitting the rope?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u57	Now, please, with Mr Laudát in fact, Mr Blažek will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u58	Thank you. I wanted to respond to Mr. Chalupa too. Once you're bankrupt - you're bankrupt - with some businessman's rules, then all you can do is scream something out the window and keep listening to some stories from your chairman, the finance minister, and I don't know what everything. So it just doesn't work like that. And you have one last chance to stop this nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u59	Mr Blažek's microphone, please. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u60	Hello. Thank you. I'm just a brief response to Minister Babiš in a slightly different way. But, Minister, you are the Minister of Government and in the 21st century, not in the 1970s. So you shouldn't say sentences when someone got arrested for stealing something. The court hasn't decided yet. So I'd like to ask you to honor the presumption of innocence. It's not your '70s anymore when it was enough to send the police somewhere, put it in the paper, and the man was condemned by the nation and the crowd. So I'm going to ask you not to have these statements. They're also plaintiffs. Not by me, but if it were not proved by what these people are probably being prosecuted for or are being prosecuted for today, they might also be able to sue you for a few things, which may not hurt you. And then one more comment. But it hurts me like a citizen, because you're really a member of the government, that's not how you should express yourself in this system. The system, when it went like this, is for God's sake gone. And second point. I'm glad you say the laws apply in the Czech Republic. Luckily, I live in Moravia, so, luckily, your laws don't concern me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u61	I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u62	Madam President, honourable Members, I shall return to some speeches in the final words. I have calculated 20 factual points and four performances with the fact that as a petitioner I have to say that some were logically inconsistent. If we're saying that most people pay taxes, it's honest, and at the same time, there's a clondajk, it's not logically consistent. Some of them were untrue. We have about 300 thousand in the Czech Republic. tradesmen, but that doesn't mean that most of them have a turnover between 750 thousand and a million crowns. That is, it is not that any reduction in VAT obligations to 750 000 would affect them, and it is unfair to use these arguments because they are false. The second thing that has to do with this is whether you accept the bill in the version proposed by the Senate or in the version adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, there will still be one million crowns left. That is not what we are talking about today, and the amendments do not address it. So it was once again a matter that does not belong here and has nothing to do with the amendments. I thought it was important to explain. Third thing, that's the short time we all have, and that's what I've been talking about. It's been emphasized several times here again. I can't but confirm it again. I think that because of the current government's approach and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance, we have a very difficult situation today, and we cannot deal with a lot of other things, which are a lack of that law. We in the Senate have also resigned from them, and perhaps that is why some Members and certain Members' clubs will not vote for this Senate version of the law either. Although it is not entirely my place to do so, since Mr Farskýý did not receive the answer to his questions, I will answer them very briefly. With regard to the small budgetary rules that have been returned to the Chamber of Deputies and you do not need to discuss them at the end of December just because we have shifted their effectiveness or proposed to move them to 1. 7. 2015, so I point out here, and it is not funny and it is not said that if the Senate approved the small budget rules in the form that came from the Chamber of Deputies, and in the form proposed by the Ministry of Finance, then municipalities and regions would be partly from 1. 1. 2015 out of order! [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] The social benefits provided by the regions and municipalities would not be paid, systemic aid would not be paid and other aid would not be paid, which is part of the subsidy programmes, because they did not hang in advance for a month! Because they couldn't, because municipalities and regions didn't know about this. As far as the big budgetary rules are concerned, we are also returning them, because what was prepared for entrepreneurs and recipients of subsidies and providers was that the subsidy provider could decide not to grant without having to justify it! Once again: The subsidy provider in the form of the large budget rules we received in the Senate could decide not to grant without having to justify it - however, which doesn't matter to some -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u63	Senator, I'm sorry, but please comment on the bill you're proposing here. [[Inconvenient banging into benches, especially in the ODS and TOP 09 series.]] Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u64	As far as the delegated tax scope is concerned, we did not discuss this in the Senate debate because it is so complicated that at the time we were in charge, it was not possible to solve the problem. In general, I made a Senate proposal here. You have heard the reasons why the Senate motion was accepted. It is now up to you to vote on how the proposal will apply and whether it will apply in 2015, some of its parts correctly from 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u65	Thank you. I'm registering an application with Mr Stanjura's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u66	Madam Vice-President, allow me to object to the way you have treated our fellow Member in the Senate. There was no reason for you to jump in and whisper him! He provided us with information that a member of the government refused to provide or did not consider it necessary to provide. It was a normal question by a member of the Chamber of Deputies, what will be the fate of the laws that the Senate returned. That government members - and we are already used to it - do not answer questions and remain silent, that is one thing. But I have not seen any reason and I do not know any provisions of the Rules of Procedure which the Senator would violate. And even if he was slightly out of our negotiations - there is a guest here, I also don't know exactly the Senate's Rules of Procedure, so I think that a certain generosity would be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u67	Thank you for your objection, but let me tell you that I have followed the Rules of Procedure and led the Senator to the point. With priority rights, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u68	What's your hurry? I mean, that's your government we're sitting here for today, so don't be nervous! I would understand that, Madam Vice-President, if you were to measure everyone equally. If you were to measure the same amount of government members who, very often, bring in completely different things that are not related to the law, and it was today too, then I wouldn't say anything. But if you choose only one, plus an honored guest from the upper chamber of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I just don't like it and I just have to stand up for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u69	With priority rights, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u70	Madam Vice-President, I also believe that it was extremely unfortunate of you, in line with Mr Stanjura. And if you insist strictly on taking everyone's word away when someone in the House's leadership gets the impression that it's not relevant, then if some ministers would basically become silent sphinxes, because almost never, including the finance minister, speak to the point. He still has carousels for what he is, but they don't concern all the laws in the House, as far as I know, so you'd have to turn it off any minute, and it seems to me you haven't turned him off once. So I don't think it's fair at all, what you did, you really didn't do it. But not really.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House Press 291/4, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 291/5.' Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 250-order vote, to which 169 are registered, for 137. I state that we have accepted the bill as approved by the Senate. I'm done discussing this point. [[Senator Senator Poke up to the microphone.]] Senator, I'm done discussing this point!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u72	I just want to thank you for an interesting experience and wish you a nice Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-001-138.u73	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We'll continue with another bill returned to the Senate. It's a point.
