ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-002-085.u1	85. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the rámcový Agreement on Comprehensive Partnerships and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, on the other hand, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2012 (the 223/ First Reading) The Secretary of State has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-002-085.u2	Yes, thank you. So it's similar, I've already announced it here, there's a third country in Indonesia and the Philippines, there's almost 100 million inhabitants, too, and that's Vietnam. So even here, what's said is true. The rapporteur rightly said in his speech to the Philippines that this treaty has a truly global character, that is, it affects a number of areas, not only the economy I was talking about, but also such things as cultural issues, but also drug smuggling, money laundering, that is, fighting these phenomena as part of actually a common process. So it's something that actually affects all areas of life - it covers this treaty. Of course, it could and should have an impact on the development of relations between European countries, EU countries, and Vietnam also because it also follows up with this Treaty that the EU is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with Vietnam and that should be completed next year. So if this treaty were to be ratified, I think that it is in connection with the free trade agreement that should be concluded next year that this can significantly improve the possibilities of companies of EU countries, including the Czech Republic, to penetrate the Vietnamese market, precisely because it would improve the conditions in terms of tariff liberalisation, elimination and non-tariff barriers and improvements in the regulatory environment. So following the upcoming free trade zone, this could also be a significant shift for the Czech Republic in terms of the conditions for trade. [[11.50 hours]] You know well that there is quite a broad cooperation between Vietnam and the Czech Republic from the past. I would just like to remind you that in February 2015, both Vietnam and the Czech Republic will commemorate the 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. So we can continue this tradition now by ratifying this treaty and by improving the conditions for mutual relations and relations between Vietnam and the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-002-085.u3	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Mihola, to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-002-085.u4	Hello, colleagues. In fact, I would simply add very briefly to the Minister's position. It is an agreement following the previous agreement of the European Union with the Republic of the Philippines. I would like to point out here that this agreement has already been put before the Chamber of Deputies in June 2013, but it has not been discussed since the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies. It is therefore re-submitted. About her goal. The objective of this Agreement is to establish a framework for strengthening bilateral relations between the European Union and Vietnam and for closer cooperation in all areas of common interest. The Agreement contains all the political clauses that are commonly included in the framework agreements negotiated by the European Union with other countries. I would also say that it will have no impact on the state budget, public administration. It is in accordance with the legislation of the European Union. I recommend ordering the Foreign Committee to agree to the ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-002-085.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee, the rapporteur proposes the same. Does anyone else have a suggestion? That's not true, but I have a request for a check-out, so I'm signing you off and I'm asking you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of Members has settled, we will decide by voting order number 89, which I have just begun, and I ask who is 223 of the Foreign Committee for the commandment of this press. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 89, 136 for 129, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister and end with paragraph 85. The Minister stayed at the rapporteur's table because the next item is item 86. I will ask Mr Robin Böhnisch to come to the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for first reading. Point 86 is
