ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u1	49. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its prior consent proposal for a Council decision on a three-sided social summit for growth and employment /German press 162-E/ I would like to see Mr Lubomír Toufar take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs. I ask whether the Minister is interested in speaking or will wait for the debate afterwards. [[Minister: Let's have a debate.]] Okay. And I ask the Committee's rapporteur whether he is interested in speaking now or to sign up in the debate. [[Rapporteur: In the debate.]] Okay. The discussion of this item was suspended on Thursday 15 May at the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. I remind you that the Government has put forward a proposal to give prior consent to the House pursuant to Section 109i (f) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay in order to allow its timely consideration. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered by his decision number 15 of 2 April 2014 this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs and set a deadline until 29 April 2014. The Committee has discussed and adopted a resolution delivered to you as Parliamentary Press 162-E/1. The debate at the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies has not been closed. We will therefore continue the debate. The Minister came forward, then the rapporteur and then Mr Stanjura. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u2	Hello, Madam President, honourable Members. I will basically just say briefly that this is a formal approval of an institute that already exists. This is a so-called Tripartite Social Summit, an institution that already works. This is in particular a dialogue between employees' representatives and employers at European level and between the Commission and the Council. Why this decision is presented to the Chamber of Deputies, it follows, as has already been read, from the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and this is more or less a technical matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u3	I thank you, and now, please, to Mr Toufar's speaker's counter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to the comments of my colleague Stanjura, who basically had a question in the debate at the last meeting, why the Czech Republic had a reservation on this point. I would like to say that, in essence, without the consent of this House, it cannot apply to those 24 states, as was the case in the European Union. Another question was whether anyone was involved and what was discussed. To that end, I would like to say that it is essentially given who is a participant in this tripartite meeting, so I can say that no one has participated in the negotiations for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u5	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Stanjura's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u6	Thank you for the floor. So I am very disappointed in the speech of the Minister. Let's remember what happened at the last meeting. There was a universal minister sitting here at the time, actually an environmental minister. I asked not two, but four specific questions. I was expecting that... [[The secretary protests from her seat at the news desk.]] But you have already spoken, Madam Secretary, in the debate. So I expected you to answer in your opening act, and I wouldn't have to go behind that microphone anymore. The answer that the rapporteur tried to convey for you... I asked, for two years, who was there, what were the conclusions, how do we use them, what is good for, and why do we have a reservation? [[11.30 hours]] And you asked me why we had a reservation, and he said, "The House must approve it in order to be with the other twenty-four." I'm sorry, that's an entirely different question. I didn't ask why we should approve. I asked why we had reservations, why we had so few allies for the reservation that the mainstream mainstream thinks about it, that we wanted to be at the heart of the European Union, there are very few allies there, so if it doesn't threaten us in your declared attempt to be part of the mainstream of Europe. That's how the questions were made, if you wanted them exactly, they're definitely on the tape. And I assumed that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs would prepare those answers, because logically, the secretary couldn't possibly know from the head of who had ever traveled. But we might know what it's good for, what kind of conclusions - it's not just like we're there, maybe we're paying something, maybe there's a year's contribution, or maybe there's no one there, and it's so important that we have to vote on it. I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Madam Secretary Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u8	Madam President, Members, I will therefore respond in detail to the questions of my colleague Stanjura, Mr Stanjura. The parliamentary reservation applied by the Czech Republic is a formal matter. Once again, we will return to the fact that we are simply prescribed in the Rules of Procedure of the House. It's not a reservation on the content of the matter. As far as Czech participation is concerned, and how it is set up there - where the representatives of the European Council are always the countries that chair at that time, plus representatives from the countries from the two other subsequent Presidencys. This tells us that we participated in the Czech Republic for the last time in 2009. Otherwise, the summits always take place before the Spring and autumn European Council. And, as I said again, there are representatives of the European Unions both on the side of employees and employers. But, if necessary or possible, the Czech representatives of these unions can, of course, participate. Otherwise, I would also like to inform you that the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has already expressed its agreement at the meeting on 23 April this year. This body, as far as the results of the negotiations are concerned, has the character of recommending, collects incentives and gives them to other institutions of the European Union. Basically, it's a European tripartite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u9	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u10	Well, that's not exactly what the officials did in the answer. It's what it's like. We were there for the last time in 2009. So I understand that it's completely useless if I had to come out of what you said today. Someone's going there to see Europe, to see employers. All right. What we discussed there in 2009, when we chaired the European Union, at least that's what MPSV officials could tell us to know if it makes sense. Information that it was ratified or approved by the Senate... Yesterday we just postponed the Czech-Slovak contract, which passed in the Senate a long time ago, and it was no problem, we said we needed time, more information, we interrupted the discussion of the contract yesterday, we will return to it first at the next meeting. And nothing happened. This is not a complaint against the Minister, but in general. I think that, as a state may well be under pressure from Brussels, we are participating in many international, interstate, bilateral, multilateral summits, negotiations, and the effect is very controversial. And the question was to see if it was one of these cases. I could name it from the Ministry of Transport the Federation, where it is the official language - I think the CEO of České dráhy, who now drove the North Korean badge, paid for it, but it's a consequence that we haven't known how many years in an obscure international organization, certainly from communism, we still pay there, official language there is either Russian or Chinese, or something like that. If it's pointless, let's not worry about it at all. If there are any specific things, and I wanted to hear them, I didn't know anything. Except that we don't participate because we can't, or we can in extraordinary cases, if I understand correctly. I guess we don't really care. Maybe you or someone under the government are planning on taking part this year. We won't be able to make it in the spring if it takes place twice a year - in the fall. I know that we are neither the country's president nor in the next two-thirds, we will not be the country's president, but that participation is not excluded. Or does the same rule apply to the employment unions? One of the Czech Employment Unions or one of the Czech Trade Unions participates in this, or also last time in 2009? And now let's say, if we can't go there, if the heads of the country regularly inform us. This means, if this has already been done this year, probably yes, as you said, before the spring session, if we have the results of the spring meeting as the Czech Republic. You said it so nicely so I don't get it wrong - the European Social Summit? Tripartite summit. It sounds like it's a really important thing, so if anyone told us what was going on there, what were the recommendations, they couldn't make a decision, they're just recommending, and how do we deal with the recommendations in the Czech Republic, etc. If it's really meaningless, let's not worry about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u11	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u12	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a technical matter where each Member State, or perhaps most countries, has some tripartite, at European level, this tripartite also meets, it is called a little different. And since the Treaty of Lisbon, which also applies to the Czech Republic, has brought about some changes in procedures, this Treaty is only intended to fit the changes, let's say, to the legislative framework under which it takes place. From the logic of the matter, if the President of the country and the other two countries that will chair in the following period attend this meeting, we can say when the Czech Republic will be attending for the advice of this meeting. Furthermore, there are representatives of the Commission. The Commission represents the European Union as a whole, not individual states, or we cannot speak in this case, even if there was a Czech Commissioner, about representatives of the Czech Republic. As far as social partners are concerned, they have their associations Europe-wide, but they do not represent the state, but these associations, whether they are representatives of employees or employers from Finland, Sweden, Great Britain or the Czech Republic - of course, the government of the Czech Republic can investigate, and maybe it should, if representatives of the Czech Republic are also involved in this third group, but I assume that they represent professionally their associations there, not the individual member countries from which these delegates come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-003-049.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister or the rapporteur whether they are interested in the final word. This is not the case, so we will vote on this motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has previously agreed to the proposal for a Council decision on a tripartite social summit for growth and employment." I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 57, to which 153 Members are enrolled, of which 79 are in favour, against 2. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. This is the end of the discussion on this point. We shall now proceed to the discussion of paragraph No. 50, which is
