ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-000-999.u1	[[In addition to the President, there are only two Members in the Chamber.]] Madam, honourable Member - I have no one here from the members of the Government - allow me to start the second meeting on the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, both of you. I declare that the following Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting - according to a list that is not yet here. But given the need to take steps to start the meeting, so please let everyone sign up with ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mrs Nina Nováková has the replacement card number 1. As regards the apologies from the Chamber of Deputies - we are already three - Mrs Bebarová Rujbrová apologizes for health reasons, for reasons of foreign travel Benešík Ondřej, Jakubík Igor, Klaška Jaroslav, for no reason Mr Jiří Koskuba, for reasons of foreign travel Martin Lank, for health reasons also Pavlína Nytrová and for personal reasons at the morning meeting Václav Snopek and Štěpán Stupčuk. Josef Šenfeld and Kristýna Zelienková are further excused due to a foreign trip. Members of the government apologize Jiří Rusnok, Jan Fischer, František Lukl, Dalibor Štys and Zdeněk Žák, all for work reasons. Today, we should address the issues under the approved agenda, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, but I will interrupt the meeting because neither the rapporteur nor the petitioner is present, and I will request a meeting with the presidents of the MPs to tell me which of the MPs is asking to interrupt the meeting for a meeting of the MP. I ask the presidents of the MPs to meet me at 9:10 a.m. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-000-999.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our adjourned negotiations. We had time to sort out the apology and agenda this morning. The time for the ODS club meeting is over. From other spare cards - colleague Rais has a replacement card number 2. I add my apologies so much that at today's meeting Minister Martin Pecina, Minister Martin Holcát, apologizes. As for the next - Minister of Defence Vlastimil Picek for work reasons and for business travel, Minister Miroslav Toman. As regards the apologies of Members, Mr Jiří Skalickýý and Mr Petr Kudela, who is on a business trip with the President of the House in Slovakia. For health reasons, Mr Jiří Pospíšil and Mr Josef Novotný apologizes on account of work obligations. Mr David Kádner also apologizes for family reasons, Mr Simeon Karamazov apologises for personal reasons and Mr Jandák for health reasons. Mrs Iva Dobešová also apologizes from the meeting and for family reasons Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes. Those are all the apologies that are beyond this morning's opening of the meeting. So we have ahead of us the continuation of press negotiations number 43, we are in the first reading.
