ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on Occupational Soldiers, as amended, and other related laws /house print 49/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I just point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to this bill at first reading. This means that there is a proposal for a hearing pursuant to Article 90 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2. I ask the Minister of Defence to present this press on behalf of the government. Minister, you have the floor. - I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u2	Thank you. I will be very brief and I will probably not surprise you if, on behalf of the TOP 09 and the Mayors and ODS Club, we say the veto for discussion under Section 90.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u3	I have noticed the veto of two clubs and I note that § 90 para. 2. And now there is nothing to prevent the Minister from taking the introductory word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to say a few words on the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u5	I'm sorry. I have noted that there is a demand for noise reduction, so I ask you to sit in the benches and devote yourself to the country's key law of defence, and if you have other priorities, I ask you to implement them outside the Chamber. I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Introduction to the draft amendment of Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on Occupational Soldiers, House Press 49. This is an extensive amendment with major implications for the conduct of the service of professional soldiers and the future performance of the tasks of the armed forces. The bill was submitted by the previous government, or my predecessor, Mr. General Pick, and the work on it took several years. I therefore considered it necessary to get to know the proposal in detail after taking up office. I discussed the draft in detail with the personnel experts of the Ministry and, of course, with representatives of the Army of the Czech Republic and finally concluded that the amendment is correct in its principles and principles. What's her main objective? Give the soldiers a modern and predictable career order. Further level the pay conditions in favour of lower ranks and further maintain the competitiveness of the service in the Czech Armed Forces in the labour market. But, by your means, Mr President, I consider it necessary for President Kalousek to go through a proper legislative process at three readings. Therefore, as a representative of the petitioner, i.e. the government, I withdraw the original proposal for a hearing pursuant to § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L Given the essential nature and extensive impact of the standard on the personnel situation in the armed forces, I see it as important that the new House be able to make a detailed amendment to Act No. 221, about professional soldiers, discuss not only here in plenary but also in relevant committees. Now, at least briefly to the content of the proposal. They introduce new tools to support the career management system and the new pay schedule. That's probably the most important moment of the whole novel. These changes correct the current state enhanced by wage restrictions from past years. The current legislation on the remuneration of professional soldiers based on the principles of labour law pursuant to Act No. 143/1999 Coll., on salary and remuneration for a work emergency in budgetary and in some other organizations and bodies, is inappropriate for soldiers and, given the specifics of their service, may have an adverse effect on their salary assessment. Compared to this year there will be an increase of personal mandatorial expenditure by about 1.3 billion crowns. It's just an optical increase. Compared to 2013, the volume does not change because the Army of the Czech Republic implemented structural changes in 2013 and reduced the number to eliminate the increase. What are the principles of the proposed adjustment? First of all, the link between the post held with the military rank and the corresponding service salary, a system that works successfully in a number of NATO Member States, such as Slovakia, Poland, France, Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom. Increasing transparency in career management systems. Further reduced administrative burden, ensuring long-term stability of mandatorial expenses, suppressing subjective influences in determining the amount of soldier's salary. Settlement of the decline in military personnel' income and prevention of further decline from 1. 1. 2015. Furthermore, it is a modern personnel tool for resetting the period of decisive, systemization and service evaluation, taking into account the specific characteristics of the professional service of soldiers and the performance of their specific tasks. In other words, the proposed amendment makes it possible to create a more transparent and predictable system for the career growth of soldiers. I consider it very important that the amendment goes the way of making the use of mandatorial expenses more effective, which is a substantial part of the Ministry of Defence's budget. This also applies to the area of debts. After a comprehensive assessment, I believe that there is still room for changes in the conditions for entitlement and the amount of certain transactions, and I would very much like to have a debate on this. To the next goals of the novel. It is also about the implementation of the law of the European Union, particularly in the area of the layout of the service of soldiers, which has been enforced by the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The amendment also responds to the need to amend certain provisions of the Occupational Soldiers Act following application experience. Finally, let me summarize in the sense that the current state of our soldiers' careers is not sustainable in the long term. The resulting form of the law is eagerly awaited by the army. At the same time, however, it is necessary to reflect the new distribution of forces in the Chamber of Deputies, which is why I want a regular discussion to take place on this proposal, which I will be very happy and actively involved in. As Minister of Defence, I am prepared to explain and discuss this amendment carefully in cooperation with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u7	Good morning. I thank the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý and we will continue with the rapporteur's report. But since Mr David Kádner is duly excused at today's meeting, we will have to decide on a change to the rapporteur. The Committee proposes Mr Bohuslav Chalupa as rapporteur. I have to unsubscribe you because the number of people present is probably very different. I'm asking for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards so we can decide to change the newsletter. We've already got the needy deal. In voting order number 121, we will decide that the rapporteur for first reading will be Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 121, from the present 87 for 84, against 1. I therefore ask Mr Bohuslav Chalupa to take up the press report 49. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u8	Hello, fellow Members, fellow Members, Dear Government. On behalf of the President of the Defence Committee, I would like to present the rapporteur's report. Allow me to speak with this report after the speech of the Minister of Defence, who said basically everything relevant. My intelligence report will therefore be very brief. We have another of the government's bills concerning the Army of the Czech Republic and the defence of the country as such, which significantly regulate the conditions for the performance of the service of professional soldiers, in particular their salary requirements. Among other things, the amendment brings changes to the rules of service classification, rank, study stays, holidays and so on. However, the new legislation on the salary of the service is a crucial moment. As rapporteur, I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies that the bill be released for second reading. I welcome the fact that the petitioner does not insist on the procedure under Section 90 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment of this importance deserves proper consideration in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. The Defence Committee is ready to address this proposal and discuss it within the time limits set by the House. For myself as rapporteur, I do not propose a shortening or extension of the time limit for committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u9	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Antonín Seďa is the first to be entered in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, the amendment to Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on professional soldiers, set out to introduce career management in our army, when a higher grade will be tied to a higher military rank, which will correspond to the demands of its own service. Furthermore, this amendment intends to level the flat-rate tariff reduction by 10 per cent from January 2011. The explanatory memorandum provides four options for a possible solution, including maintaining the current situation. In my explanatory report, I am missing a comparison of options of remuneration for other armies of the North Atlantic Alliance, such as Belgian, Dutch or Danish. As I pointed out at the first reading of the Service Act to the different remuneration systems in the state administration, I do not understand why the option that would be more transparent was not chosen. Probably because it is not true that there will be a reduction in salary costs as a result of this amendment, but there will be an increase in salary costs, which will then also be reflected in an increase in debts. In particular, the amendment does not lead to a fairer remuneration for soldiers in lower ranks. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us make two general comments. I've already indicated something here at the last or the last point. The first is: if there is still - and I have no information that it does not - the 2002 reform of the armed forces, then today we should have a total of 35 thousand. Staff of the Ministry of Defence, including 26 200 professional soldiers and 8 800 civil servants. According to the state budget for 2014 of the chapter book 307 the number of employees in the resort is 30 158, of which 21 994 professional soldiers and 7 296 civil servants. On the other hand, the explanatory memorandum to the law speaks of a total of 29 287 persons in the Department of Defence. However, both figures plan a decrease of 2,447 employees, of which 1,659 professional soldiers and 788 civil servants. For me alone, the fundamental and still unanswered question is what kind of army we really want, what kind of army we are building and whether the armed forces will even carry out their tasks under strategic documents and laws of the Czech Republic. If we wanted to keep the staff of the 2002 Armed Forces Reform, we would need an additional CZK 2 billion at least. The second point relates to the structural problem of the Ministry of Defence's budget. From the experience and recommendations of the armies of the North Atlantic Alliance, but also the approved transformation of the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, personal expenditure should not exceed 50 percent of the expenditure, other current expenditure should not exceed 30 percent and the necessary modernisation would remain at least 20 percent. Today's reality, that is, in the 2014 draft budget, is that the mandarins go to 59 per cent, the other current expenditures correspond to 30 per cent, and capital expenditures fall again to 11 per cent of the budget. The investment hump, according to the White Paper, is nearly 100 billion. The koruna and the army are struggling with a significant lack of money for routine maintenance and repairs. Personally, I believe that the proposed amendment does not represent the objectives originally set by the White Book on Defence, in particular the expectations that soldiers have placed and are still putting in this amendment will not be fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now a few basic concrete comments on the bill. First: There are still outstanding errors in the amendment. In particular, Section 3 leaves as a condition of employment to the service to perform basic or substitute services, while those types of active service have long been abolished. Similarly in § 48 a mistake is left in the description of the basic duties of a soldier, when in this way a soldier is not obliged, if you want, to do virtually nothing with the justification that the required activity is above his ability. In the third period: Paragraph 19 - The amendment leaves the state obliged to release a soldier if it requests release, regardless of the content of the contract in force. In addition to the totally unequal status of the state represented by the Ministry of Defence, this allows for an extreme but possible case of military break-up due to requests submitted by soldiers if it occurs within nine months of the application. Back in the army it would be possible to get soldiers through their occupation to an extraordinary service when declaring a state of threat. By the way - We still don't have an emergency service bill. Second, honourable Members, the new Section 6a is problematic, the decisive time in the service assignment. This new provision makes no sense of achieving the objective of the amendment of the law, as it allows a soldier to be dealt with in any way according to the will of the commander. Also, a very short deadline for a written objection from a soldier against a service evaluation limits the right of professional soldiers. If I use the words of a classic, this provision is absurd because the appeal is given to the processor and the processor decides definitively. There is no remedy. The Service Authority will not be burdened with any corrections to its Elaborate. The important conclusion is that this way can be properly destroyed by anyone and at any time. In my opinion, this new provision is directed against professional soldiers, and I fear that this is not the way the foreign legion has been adapted. Three. Passage on a service salary is rather an inconspicuous methodical rule. All provisions concerning the accounting and non-calculation of the service time in different situations, the calculation of the length of the alternate leave and the time limit laid down for granting leave are completely inconspicuous triggers, are obvious official notice and will only complicate the situation for the commanders. It's not like the commanders are worried about recounting the soldier's time at the table. Very controversial is the new requirement that puts a soldier's unpaid service up to 300 hours above the basic weekly service, even without the possibility of a spare leave. [[10.20 hours]] The problem with regard to possible financial impacts on the military budget is so called. a stabilization supplement which is proposed as a flat-rate of 7,000. CZK for each completed calendar month of service. Similarly, there is a service allowance for housing. Ladies and gentlemen, four. Some provisions, e.g. Section 6 - Service classification, they seem to be contrary to the legislation in force. In § 8 - period of service in rank - for incomprehensible reasons we have disabled privates from the organizational structure of military units and we have allocated this rank only for the purposes of preparing new professionals. In addition to being a world rarity, we have achieved that we have lost more from such a small number of ranks. Section 15 - Dispatch is a great curiosity of this law, because according to this provision it would not be possible in the interest of the Ministry, Military Intelligence, Military Police or Military School of Dispatchment to implement. The same problem is also § 16 - transfer. Similarly, the whole of Title IV - performance and time of service - is again politely said, very problematic. Apparently, they will have to hire new special forces to guard the provisions of this head, because I would like to see a commander who knows this legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, what can I say in conclusion? I would like to use two quotations from the explanatory memorandum of the amendment, which justified the requirement for the approval of the law at first reading. The first reason is that the bill in question is to represent an amendment which is transposed into the law by EU law. Deferral of implementation of EU directives following publication of this intention and its justification is allegedly at risk of litigation with a direct impact on the Ministry of Defence's budget chapter. Here's a quick remark. Directive 89/391/EEC and Directive 203/88/EC and the obligation under the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union No C-132/04 of 12 January 2006 - yes, of 12 January 2006 - do not concern the armed forces at all and are somewhat out of date. The second reason is that the proposed salary system was preceded by extensive organisational and dislocation changes, which were due on 1 January 2014. I also see no direct connection to these changes and the amendment to the law. Perhaps only that the long-term uncertainty of professional soldiers can further increase, leading to the departure of prospective soldiers, which will destabilize our army. Finally, I would like to say that the Minister and the current government have actually inherited this amendment to the Occupational Soldiers Act. It will be very complicated in committee to adjust. I think that the basic questions that I said at the outset should be answered first. Thank you for your attention and, at the same time, I apologize for a slightly longer speech, but I also recommend that this law be forwarded to the Defence Committee for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u11	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. I am now saying that I have no written application for the debate, but I see Mrs Jana Černochová's application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have to lift my eyebrows a little in response to what has been said here by Mr Sed, because I am very surprised by what I have heard here today. Draft Act on Occupational Soldiers, Act No. 221, together with Mr Seďa, I have heard several times in the last parliamentary term, the proposal we had to discuss repeatedly in the Committee on Defence and Criticism, which is now being heard, perhaps if it were to speak two years ago, Minister Stropnický, who, within his mandate in the new government, took up the role of the promoter of this proposal, would have had easier work because all the critical points mentioned here by representatives of social democracy could have already been brought into the proposal and we did not have to lose half a year of time. I don't think the standard is prepared badly. The Guarantee Committee will, without a doubt, be the Defence Committee, which will certainly comment, which we have already discussed at various levels and in the context of interlacing some agendas into the area of security, so we have also talked about them in the Security Committee, so I think we are able to remove some issues so that there is no problem. I think that even in the opening words of the Minister here, the things that we already know are not fully recorded there, the Minister himself mentioned that he knows about them and that he is ready to discuss them and remove these errors. On this occasion, I would perhaps mention the two standards that await us, too, I suppose, in the summer months. Perhaps it will not come to a point when an extraordinary meeting is held on these two standards if it is convened for reasons other than those mentioned here today also during the summer months, namely the Act on Active Advances and the Defence Act, because these two standards are directly related to two-two-two-one and it is not possible to accept two-two-two-one and not talk about active backups. It is not possible to accept two hundred and twenty-one and not talk about the law, because these things are directly related. So I want to ask, and on behalf of the Civic Democrats Club, I can say that we are prepared to support this law for second reading. To set up a guarantee committee, the Defence Committee also seems to us to be the most systemic and let us continue to discuss this standard within the committee. I would also like to thank Minister Stropnický for the fact that when I intersected him here at the beginning of the parliamentary term, where the laws he withdrew from the program were that he told me that these standards would be submitted by summer. And they are. Two hundred and twenty-one we have here, so I would very much like to assure the Minister that he can promise the same with the defence law and the Act on Active Advances. And, of course, I would be very happy to participate in the work on these standards as a member of both the Committee and the Defence and Security Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u13	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. With a factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa will now prepare Mr Václav Klučka for a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u14	Thank you. I would have replied to my colleague, Černochová, by your means. I'll agree to the end. Personally, I think all the laws were to be discussed in one package. The fact that the armed forces are already gone, that the military police are gone, etc., is a mistake because they are linked. Second thing. Yes, it has been discussed several times on the committee, but it has never been given enough attention, especially because some objectives have been declared, and after an in-depth analysis, I do not see these targets there. That's the reason I presented. And the second thing is that it also wants to know what I said at the beginning - in what state the Army of the Czech Republic is currently in, because I heard a public statement, twice, on the public forum of the Chiefs of Staff, which clearly declared that the Czech Army is in bad shape. And the second thing is whether the adoption of this amendment means a law on professional soldiers, improves or worsens the current state of affairs. I want it to improve, so that the objectives of the 2003 reform of the armed forces are met. And for that, this law must serve. If it doesn't serve it, it's wrong!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klučka for a proper application in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to comment on the previous performance of the previous speakers. I would just like to say that the content of this speech makes it very clear that it is necessary at a certain time before us, and I assume that the time will be confirmed by this honourable House, to find compromises in many partial problems, which will then help us to simplify negotiations at second and third readings. For this reason, even in agreement with the petitioner and the rapporteur, I am already taking the liberty of proposing an extension of the deadline for 30 days to 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u17	I thank Mr Klučka. We'll continue, but I don't have any more applications. Yes, I now see Mr Černý Černochová's application as well. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u18	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me just a few comments on the address of the first reading. Unfortunately, I must say that we are somewhat disappointed with the opening word of the Minister. I understand that, after what he's been through in the past few hours, it's not easy for him and that he's probably not very happy about going to the House today, but I really expected that in addition to reciting a few passages from the explanatory report that the diligent Members can undoubtedly read, I would hear what I just didn't hear. My colleague Seďa, Mrs Černochová, has already indicated this. I feel that to pull out one single law that is very important, extremely necessary - I have no doubt at all that it is most desirable for us to discuss this law in order to improve the order of our careers to deal with the salary conditions of professional soldiers, but these are all just partial problems. On several occasions, we have encountered the problem that the Czech army is in a situation where it loses some of its abilities. Of course, this has to do with the financing of the military, the long-term financing of the military. That's something that doesn't concern Minister Stropnickýý at all, because it was the work of his predecessors. They knew very well what they were doing, and their decision-making often quite purposefully led to the fact that the Army of the Czech Republic either lost some of its capabilities completely or is simply on the verge of being able to provide some very important activities for the country's defence. I expected the Minister to assure us in the opening words that he had an idea of what to do with it. Recently, not all of us are as eager, but we have recently celebrated 15 years in the Czech Republic since joining the North Atlantic Alliance. On that occasion, a number of events took place, at which quite serious critical words were heard in relation to our army. There has already been mention by the Chief of Staff, who even admitted that the Army of the Czech Republic is practically not capable of getting into a situation where it would not be able to meet the allied obligations, not because it could not go to someone's aid, but because those allied commitments, for example, assume that in the first stage and possible assault, we will be able to defend ourselves. Then perhaps, according to some article of the North Atlantic Treaty, someone will come to our aid. But apparently we're no longer capable of anything at all. The army of the Czech Republic is in desperate condition. You've heard the crazy amount of underfinancing the resort around 100 billion, maybe ninety, that's hard to figure out. You have heard or certainly know, at least those who are interested in defending the country, that the number of soldiers the Czech army has today is one of the lowest - one of the lowest in the Alliance. I guess we're different from the end to the productive population. We've been talking about the budget. We are about half of what Mr Rasmussen, who now, with pardon, is moving around Europe with only one aim - to get the Member States to make up for at least a little - so we are about half of what we should have. I am stressing this because there has already been an agreement between political party representatives at that meeting of the North Atlantic Alliance, that they will deal with a kind of declaration that should reverse the adverse situation that exists today for the armed forces or for the army separately, namely that we are arguing here from year to year whether the army will receive one 40, one forty one billion. We all know that both are wrong - but especially the time limit, it's wrong. The army is one of the resorts, or the Department of Defense as a whole is one of the resorts that if it needs anything, it's a long-term thing. Those of you who have been here for a long time will surely remember the crazy moments we experienced here when we broadcast our troops into foreign missions and shortly before sending them, we did not have the House approved their activities - for example, Afghanistan or Iraq or the devil knows where. It was just very undignified, very unpleasant. It often put the Chief of Staff in a crazy situation because he had to prepare himself for the fact that if the House doesn't pass by, he's gonna have to pull these people down fast. And that's a huge security risk. For example, the inconclusiveness and inability to plan defense spending for a longer period than even one parliamentary term would be five, six, maybe even more years, which, among other things, makes us in the situation we are in today. Mrs Černochová mentioned here the missing other laws, which must necessarily be linked to this standard. There's one more thing I want to remind you of. The political parties may, with the help of God, work to declare their interest in strengthening the defence of the Czech Republic in some way and declare what I am talking about, that they will commit themselves to what kind of law - of course, it will not be a law, but it will be a kind of declaration that should motivate them not to torpedo, for example, a defence budget, so that they can accept that we will behave like some other countries, which, regardless of almost economic development, clearly declare that defense spending will be such or poppy. I have the honour to represent our party in this expert group, as we call ourselves, and we are conducting a disputation on what to do to strengthen the defence of the Czech Republic. We're not referring to the fact that we're just waiting for the Alliance to protect us. These are contracts that are valid and which we do not question. However, we are aware that the priority of our Members, our government, should be to secure our own defence. I'm a little embarrassed right now if it makes any sense to continue the work of this group, because our goal is really to ensure defense. We are talking about the fact that it is not possible without, for example, strengthening the defense budget so that we do not strengthen the various parts of the army, and on the other hand, I hear here, and the Minister knows very well that the draft of the law states that the minimal army - the "em" we already had here, remember Minister Tvrdík some and his concept of "smaller, smaller, when we are absolutely smallest" - we sacrifice another 1,600 men of professional soldiers to ensure wage conditions for the new career order. I just don't understand. I'm just missing it. I had hoped that the Minister would not read to me in the opening words from the explanatory report, but that he would explain to me how he dealt with this problem, how he assessed these difficulties with his colleagues, and that he would not push us into a situation - because what he is now presenting to us is basically improving the career order for soldiers, improving their pay terms, but worsening the conditions for securing the country's defence, that is a contradiction to me, which I cannot deal with, and in relation to other laws, because not a word from the petitioner, as he imagines active backups, as he imagines the law. And yet we all know very well that we will not get around without it, that it is simply what we lack here in the long term. Without this, there is almost no point in acting at two hundred and twenty-one, because we may have well-paid professionals, they will have a better career planned, they may be better focused on what awaits them, but it will not help the country's purely personal affairs and defence. If we do not get satisfactory answers to these questions, our approach to further deliberation of this law will be quite embarrassed. I am positive about Mr Klučka's proposal to extend the deadline, because I am afraid that we simply cannot do without it, and I firmly believe that in the meantime we will receive the information that I have now mentioned and without which law 221 cannot be discussed effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u19	I thank Mr Alexandr Černý. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u20	Colleagues, I'm sorry to leave women out of this, but I'm the only woman on the defense committee. We've all been here for a week, some of us are here from the last parliamentary term, and we have enough experience to be able to do that standard during the extended period - I agree with my colleague Klučka and his proposal - to put it together so that we can discuss it. At the same time, the Minister and his resort will be preparing the defence law, preparing the Act on Active Advances, and it can all come together here at some point. I think we should all have this ambition. I am only very sorry that in two or three weeks we will celebrate the sad anniversary of the fall of Nečasův' government, when this standard was on the agenda of the meeting on the day the government fell. If, in the context of the Senate's measures, as former Minister Picek originally wanted, this standard got into discussion, we have nothing to talk about today, the Minister has less of a 200-year-old woman in wrinkles and that standard applies. And we've been able to monitor for a while what possible errors and shortcomings appear in that standard in practice. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I don't agree with my colleague, Seďa, that it's gonna get worse. It won't get any worse. It bothers me that, in fact, within the framework of the career order, we were in a situation without a decisive period, which is now in a standard that is two to fifteen years old, that, for example, we were in a position - and people 35, 25, 30 were also talking about it by the Minister of Liberty. To the position of the corporals! And none of us should be interested in such soldiers who do not have the basic ambition to elevate their careers. And in that, I see the standard as a good one, as a good one. It bothers me there, and I mentioned it repeatedly at the seminar that our colonels will fall out of the system a little bit, because the problem is that we currently have 280 colonels. When President Zeman appointed General Petr Pavel as Army General on the day of the public holiday, those days before were also promoted to the regiment's rank, there were about fifteen of them, so now we have about 300 colonels in our army, and unfortunately this is a narrow place -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u21	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask my colleagues for peace so that you can speak safely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. We currently have about 300 colonels in our army. The only thing that bothers me about career progress and order is that the colonel can only become a general, a brigadier general. And here, of course, is a very narrow place for a promotion to this rank, a promotion to the rank of general, to decide only and exclusively from our Constitution of the President of the Republic, so the army doesn't have it in hand. We're going to get into a situation where about 300 colonels can't have ambition, and I assume that our army doesn't even have that ambition to make 300 colonels into 300 generals in two years. That is simply not going to happen, but luckily - and I would like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, who have prepared very good documentation for our questions, so that we can work with these numbers - we already know how many colonels who would otherwise leave the system will retire naturally. It's all things that have a solution, we just need time to talk about them. Once again, while I am a member of the opposition party, the army, the police, just the security forces, I consider it to be something that should be completely apolitical, and I and my colleagues are prepared to prepare any sensible proposal that will lead to an improvement in the situation in the Army of the Czech Republic, to stabilise our soldiers, and to finally, after the adoption of the White Paper, which was adopted three years ago, it will be clear what will be happening in this resort for the next ten years. That's my approach to this issue, and I don't think that standard is bad. Let's work on it, let's work on it quietly from now on, when we pass this standard to the guarantee committee, let's meet and let's spend a lot of time on this standard. Our army deserves it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Černochová. With a factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just a few notes. First thing. We need to realise that this standard was submitted by the previous government and wanted to approve it at first reading with all the errors I pointed out, so the question is, how did the legislative round actually take place, that is, commentary procedure. Second thing. If an amendment to the Occupational Soldiers Act is adopted at this rate, we must increase the Ministry of Defence's budget by at least three billion. Without this and without this commitment, there is no point in continuing to work on this amendment. Third thing. As of January 1, 2014, soldiers were demoted. They were demoted, but this law didn't apply. And that's the worst thing that can happen to any soldier. I would hate to call on a demon here to solve all the problems in the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Czech Republic. It's not like it wasn't when you received the White Paper on Defense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-003-015.u25	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. I understand further applications for the debate, but I am bound by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which was proposed by the President of the Zbyněk Stanjura Club, that we will continue with the interrupted first item of today's negotiations from 10.45 pm. I apologize for the fact that it lasted a while longer. Interrupting item 15. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for the time being. I note that Mrs Langšádlová and Mr Soukup within 12 hours apologize from 11 to the end of the day for reasons of work.
