ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended, and other related laws /house print 256/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister Mládek. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been drafted on the basis of the current need to address the issue of the payment of one of the benefits of assistance in material distress, the housing supplement. The proposal is presented with the aim of adjusting the payment system for the housing supplement so as to take account of experience. The practice shows the need for some provisions to be adapted and specified in such a way as to allow for a uniform procedure for dealing with the situation of the assessment of the right to housing payments and the determination of the amount thereof. At present, there is a progressive increase in the housing supplement provided, not only because of the impact of the economic crisis, but also because a number of people have learned to use and exploit certain benefits of the Act on aid in material distress. First of all, the draft law aims to prevent payment of the housing supplement to non-compliant accommodation facilities financed at an disproportionate amount to their operators without violating the legislation in force. Therefore, certain tightenings are proposed to assess the situation of a person's material emergency for the purpose of the housing supplement, on the one hand, and simplification of the housing supplement procedure, on the other hand. Therefore, the objective of the legislation is to provide housing supplement only to suitable housing and to simplify the administration of this benefit. To this end, the bill defines an apartment, accommodation and other than a residential area. The optimal form of housing is, of course, an apartment. As regards accommodation facilities in which accommodation is provided for a period of more than two months in a six-month period, it is proposed that, in order to meet the hygiene requirements, communication of data relating to such facilities be adjusted for the purposes of deciding on the granting of an additional housing fee to regional labour offices by public health authorities. (?) In the case of a non-residential area, it is based on the principle that, in order to provide a housing supplement to this type of housing, it is necessary to meet certain standards laid down by construction technical regulations. To check whether a non-residential space meets these standards, the logic of the matter must be carried out by the local building authority, since it is best equipped to assess these facts in a professional manner. Another significant change contained in the submitted material constitutes the abolition of the time limit for the provision of housing surcharges in the system of assistance in material distress and the contribution to housing in the system of state social support. This adjustment should minimise the risk of homelessness that could be at risk of termination of the dose for time reasons. Following the amendments to Act No.586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, which took place with effect from 1 January 2014, I consider it necessary also to make certain adjustments in the field of deductible income in the Act on State Social Support and in the Act on the Life and existential Minimum. The proposed legislation is to take effect on 1 January 2015. Thank you for your attention and please support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u3	Thank you, Minister. Given that the originally designated rapporteur for this reading is not present, we will have to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, so I will call all my colleagues from the lobby. We will now vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, originally from Mr Adolf Beznoska to Mrs Pavlína Nytrová. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 45, to which 145 Members are entered, of which 121 are in favour. I note that the proposal has been adopted and I ask the newly elected rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Pavlína Nytrová to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that everything necessary for the first reading has been said here, that the material will certainly still be dealt with in the Committee on Social Policy, and at this point I recommend the amendment to the Act on Material Need for Second Reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have Mrs Semelová and Mrs Chalánková signed up. So, first of all, I would like to ask Mrs Semelová to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government amendment is intended to address the housing supplement payment scheme, to define more precisely the appropriate accommodation to which the State grants the housing supplement, to define the heading of the jointly assessed persons for the purpose of paying the housing supplement in such a way that only one housing supplement is provided within one apartment or other area, or to favour the calculation of pension insurance benefits. I'm sure you can agree with that. After all, it should help lonely seniors in particular, which is a group that is particularly at risk -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u7	Madam, I am very sorry, but please all those who have a need to share something in order to do so in the lobby and not disturb the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u8	Thank you. This should therefore help lonely seniors in particular, which is a group that is particularly at risk of poverty and loss of housing. The new regulation also proposes the abolition of the time limit on the provision of this social benefit, which, despite the protests of the opposition at the time, was enforced by Minister Nečasův' government Mr Drábek. Government proposals should therefore have a positive impact on those groups of people who do not have sufficient income, are in a difficult situation, in the vast majority not by their own fault, and are asking for an additional payment for housing. I'm sure it's okay. I also appreciate the effort to tighten up the conditions for the owner of the hostel. In this context, however, I have some doubts that hygiene standards are to be assessed for running doses only from the fifth month of their validity and housing quality standards until the ninth month of their validity, so that owners or landlords of the accommodation and persons staying there can respond in time. I know there is a need for a transitional period, but at this length, I consider it excessive. By accepting this form, the current situation will run for another three quarters of a year, which the owners of the residential hotels, who often squeeze as many people as possible into each vacant place as possible to make maximum profit, will certainly welcome. These literally cheaters with human poverty not only cheat by concluding fictitious high-sum contracts to avoid losing housing benefits, but also blackmailing residents who, of course, do everything possible just to avoid losing a roof over their heads. Perhaps it would be worth considering whether these hostels should be run by the state on a non-profit basis. I think it should end in a practice where dishonesty -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u9	Madam, I am so sorry, but I must remind my colleagues from the coalition to calm down and not disturb you in your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u10	I think it should end in a practice where dishonest people enrich themselves and take advantage of the situation of people who have deep pockets. And those people aren't very few. Over 1.5 million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the Czech Republic, which is over 15 percent of the total population. Many people divide income by a few ten crowns from official integration into the poverty zone. Moreover, thousands of homeless people, people living in asylums and hostels are not captured in official statistics. There's more than 900 thousand homes at risk of an emergency. Those at risk of losing their own apartment include young families with children, singles and singles, seniors, especially lonely, disabled, single-income families. Why should they pay back on the policies of previous governments that have stepped up to price, to reduce real income, to privatise and to shut down businesses and companies, to maintain a minimum wage at a totally undignified level that is lower than the level of income for the poverty zone, which has rejected legitimate pension valorisation and has committed high unemployment? This is precisely why many families have been in debt and have come to a situation where instead of a dignified life, they are dependent on social benefits, because otherwise they would not be able to secure the most basic needs of life. These groups of people need to be protected and set conditions so that the household is able to cover housing costs. However, in addition to the positive effects of the amendment that I mentioned in my speech at the beginning, I have some concerns. Specifically, the idea is that by adopting a novel, people don't get from mud to puddle, i.e. from miserable conditions on overpriced dormitories out on the street, that the number of homeless people will increase, but also that social tensions will increase. The draft law states that this risk is to be eliminated in cooperation with municipalities and other stakeholders. The question, however, is what real possibilities the community currently has. Many of them no longer have their own housing fund, which represents the only possible financially available housing option, especially for low-income groups. At the end of 2009, 74 percent of the housing fund was sold and since then the share of municipal housing has fallen below 10 percent of the total. Moreover, the social housing law is still missing. This is what I believe should be linked to the proposed amendment to the law on material distress, but also to the concept of housing, which should be a mandatory part of the development of each community. At the same time, the government should deal with a situation in the Czech Republic where, on the one hand, people who do not have the means to purchase an apartment do not have the cost of housing, with thousands of people without a roof over their heads, and on the other hand, there are around 600,000 flats empty. Despite these doubts and concerns that I realize that the proposed amendment is not ideal and has some shortcomings, I think it is necessary and should pass through the second reading. We will therefore support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u11	Thank you, and now, please, to the speaker's desk, Mrs Chalánková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will shorten my word very much due to the absence of the Minister, which I do not blame her for, but I will certainly turn to her at the next reading, second, event. third. The Committee on Social Policy has also dealt very closely with this issue on 23 January, on its own initiative, and has even adopted a resolution with which I will introduce the Minister when she is here. We have recently discussed here, in this plenary, also the Senate bill, it was Parliamentary press number 155, which deals similarly with this issue, and this law has already passed its first reading and we will discuss it in committee. We will also look very closely at this House Press 256 in the Committee on Social Policy - and I will keep the comment for the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. [[Minister Mládek turns to Madam President with a request for a word.]] The general debate or the final word? Then come to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u14	I would just like to propose a reduction in the committee procedure by 10 days, i.e. to 50 days. That's also the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-011-017.u15	Thank you, too. As no one else is to be heard in the debate, I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees to order the proposal to be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 46, to which 144 Members present are registered, of which 119 are in favour. [[and 1 against]] I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now deal with the reduction of the deadline to 50 days raised by the appellant. Initiating vote. Who agrees to reduce the time limit in committees to 50 days? Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 47, to which 144 Members are registered, of which 121 have been voted in favour. [[and 1 against]] I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. This proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Social Policy and the time limit for discussion is 50 days. [[Mrs Chalanková, in the right side of the hall, is trying to draw the attention of the Vice-President.]] I'm just asking if you want to question the vote. No. Okay. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your cards. Excellent. We'll continue by discussing item number
