ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, as amended, Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions (regional establishment), as amended, and Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital city of Prague, as amended /house print 294/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, this proposal will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled amending Act No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, as amended, Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities,, as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions, as amended, is intended to contribute to the transparency of the management of public funds within the territorial budgets and to the reduction of legislative and non-legal barriers to the implementation of European and investment funds in the programming period 2014 to 2020. [[municipal establishment]] [[Regional establishment]] The proposed draft law in the first part regulates the procedure for granting subsidies and return financial assistance from territorial budgets, the essential requirements of applications and public contracts for granting grants or return financial assistance. Furthermore, the content of the disclosure of the intention of the local authority to grant a grant or a return financial assistance for the purpose set by the provider. The plan is similar to the programme under Law No. 218/2000 Sb. Furthermore, the obligation to publish contracts for the provision of subsidies and return financial assistance above CZK 10,000 on the public administration portal. Furthermore, the authorities responsible for deciding disputes arising from public procurement contracts or return financial assistance, i.e. the regional authorities and the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the possibility of the provider to impose a subsidy on beneficiaries of measures to remedy errors found during the check, provided that the beneficiary implements corrective measures, will not be charged to the beneficiary for breach of budgetary discipline. This provision is intended to facilitate administration in the implementation of the funds provided by the Structural Funds. In addition, the sum of CZK 1000 to which the contribution for breach of budgetary discipline will not be imposed, which is also intended to facilitate administration in the implementation of the funds provided by the Structural Funds. In addition, the possibility of simplified reporting of certain expenditure by a flat-rate amount, the imposition of a lower contribution for breach of a less severe obligation by a fixed amount or percentage or within a percentage range, the addition of contributions for infringements of a minor obligation, unless otherwise provided in the contract, and the imposition of a contribution for infringement of the rules for the award of contracts at the level of the most serious breach, unless otherwise provided by the subsidy. Some of the essential comments made to the draft law by certain regions and the Union of Towns and Municipalities have not been met, such as the requirement that the publication of the intention to provide funds from the territorial budget be shorter than the proposed 90 days, or the proposal that only the necessary information be disclosed instead of the publication of the entire contracts. Other comments were directed to the calculation of the periodic penalty payment only from the date of late payment on the basis of the payment notice, not from the day following the date of the infringement of budgetary discipline. Further to increasing the limit for the publication of contracts up to CZK 50,000. However, a number of fundamental comments were beyond this amendment of the law. The adjustment of the grant caused the need for some adjustments in the laws on municipalities and regions and the capital city of Prague. The amendment of these laws is proposed in part two to five and consists in supplementing the powers of the authorities responsible for deciding on the provision of funds from territorial budgets and the conclusion of a public contract for the provision of funds. [[12.40 hours]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that the bill presented contains several press errors which could not be corrected for time reasons before the bill was delivered to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies. These administrative deficiencies will be corrected in the framework of the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. In a detailed debate, a reduction of the deadline to 30 days will be requested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Jiří Zemánek, to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I present the press report No 294. Since the Minister of Finance has gone quite in detail, I can only take two comments. One is in the past, when we first met the form of this proposal in April 2013 and the press hearing number 988 was terminated by the dissolution of the House. At present, the amended bill is re-submitted. The current legal state of Law No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, does not define the terms relating to subsidies, with refundable financial assistance, does not lay down rules on the granting of subsidies and returnable financial assistance from territorial budgets, the essentials of the intention to provide grants or returnable financial assistance for its intended purpose and the rules for the publication of data and documents related to the appropriations provided. This is probably the most important task that the amendment under number 294 regulates these matters, while law regulates the arrangements relating to the administration of European Union funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I am registering Mr Vilímec's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have therefore signed up as a long-term municipal policy, but also during the last parliamentary term the rapporteur of these Houses of Press associated with the budgetary rules on territorial budgets stressed the impact of the adoption of this law on many, 6 400 or 6 250 municipalities. Yes, Mr Zemánek mentioned that we had already dealt with similar arrangements or similar House press at the end of the last parliamentary term, it was the House press 988. I was then set up as rapporteur for this House press. Because of the dissolution of the House and also because of the great criticism that has come to light on this bill, which in many respects is quite similar to the one we are discussing today, it has finally been abandoned. I just want to add, in this context, that the proposal that we are debating, House Press 294, is not new again. Once again, he took himself out of some kind of ministerial drawer or a cabinet clerk's drawer, and the Minister of Finance re-submitted it here. As rapporteur at the time, I did my part to compare the two House prints, the 988, which eventually did not discuss, and the 294 that we are discussing. There are some minor changes, some changes and some positive ones. In the House of Press 294, this concerns, above all, corrective measures in the case of negative infringements of the subsidy conditions so that this does not have to mean a breach of budgetary discipline - I certainly welcome that. A similar institute is also being prepared for large budgetary rules. But while the House's press 988 assumed that the relatively high administrative burden in providing subsidies would only apply to municipalities over 2,000. population, this time it applies to all municipalities regardless of whether the village has 50 inhabitants, 100 inhabitants, or it is the capital city of Prague. Yes, the struggle for greater transparency is a rather popular political issue in addition to its materiality. But if this fight is fought with the fanatical idea that every small fire brigade and every small community will be subjected to a senseless administrative burden in its name, we will completely destroy what has been achieved here in the last 25 years in the development of cities and municipalities. I suppose, and now it is not a criticism of the Minister or of the current government, when ministers go to the villages of the year and so on, I think that today the Prime Minister is going to discuss one such village, so he should announce, and I think it should also be serious, he should mention what the smallest municipalities would expect in the case of such a bill that would not be amended. I think it would be appropriate. I have the impression that some of the provisions of this proposal return us to the time of the national committees. I do not want to debate the details at first reading, but if I read that the disputes of public contracts concluded between individual cities or regions and providers will be decided by the Regional Authority, in turn by the Ministry of Finance, if this concerns the regions or capital of Prague, this is nothing more than a system of national committees, where the problems of such subsidies have always been decided by a higher degree of the relevant national committee. I understand that the requirement for a significantly transparent system of granting subsidies or returnable financial assistance is the result of an attempt to best prevent a system of hidden horniness, a certain input to favour those or the applicants. I also agree that the role of electronic media, the Internet, is certainly far greater than it has been so far, at the moment. The proposal from one side in the context of the amendment to the municipal law increases the competence of the municipal councils to grant grants to a specific beneficiary within one year to 50 thousand. I consider this to be positive, because the current limit of 20,000 is indeed insufficient. However, I do not understand it, and he also mentioned it a little bit, why the petitioner in the commentary procedure so prevented at least from balancing subsidies up to CZK 50 000 per year for municipalities and for regions 200 000 of the obligation to publish 30 days in advance the intention to grant the subsidy and insist that all subsidies without exception must be concluded on the basis of public contracts. You know, in the life of municipalities, it often happens that the municipality has to react very quickly, for example, by granting a subsidy to some particular harmful event, whether it concerns associations or various other beneficiaries. In principle, I consider the granting of the subsidy to be very hard, even if it is CZK 5,000 or CZK 2,000 to be required to publish such an intention for thirty days, say, before deciding on the grant, and it will lead to major difficulties in the practice of the municipalities. I come from Western Bohemia. In many ways, rules that work in Bavaria can model for self - government. I know many Bavarian mayors. I have never encountered the fact that mayors in Bavarian municipalities would have to undergo such administrative burdens in connection with the provision of small subsidies or contributions from their budget. If we are calling for examples from abroad today, let us also take an example from Bavaria from the functioning of self-government and the provision of subsidies in Bavarian municipalities. If disproportionately harsh rules are adopted, both municipalities and their citizens will pay for this, my fellow Members and colleagues. [[12.50 hours]] What will such rules lead to? In our circumstances, we need to go around these time delays, for which we are really very champions in our field, and I think that is not even the aim of this proposal. I also don't understand the request, and I don't want it, because I think this debate will take place on the floor of the budget committee... I do not understand the requirement for local authorities to justify to grant applicants why they did not receive it. I do not know how to justify in writing that the council or council simply did not agree with the subsidy by their votes. I don't know how to justify it. This is not to say that it is necessary to adjust some of the elements of the grant parties, that there is also a need to ensure greater awareness. We will also certainly not submit a motion for rejection. Only, according to the classic words, it is not possible to pour water out of the tub, including the child. I believe that perhaps the will and space at second reading is to amend this government proposal wisely so that the requirement of transparency does not reach a complete collision with the rationality and efficiency that the Minister of Finance so often talks about. I believe that it is possible on the board of the Budget Committee, with the helpful approach of the Minister of Finance, to keep an eye on the changes as I read from many posters, and to adjust this law in such a way that it does not harm 6 250 municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u7	I thank Mr Vilímc. Sorry. First of all, with a point of fact, Mr Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u8	Thank you, Mr President, here too, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to shorten the discussion of this law by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u9	30 over 30, I note, thank you, Mr Volný, and I ask who else is joining the general debate. I see no one, which is why I am ending the general debate. I am asking the Minister's final words, or the rapporteur's. Not interested. Since I do not see any motion for a rebuttal or rejection of the proposal, we will address the motion for a committee's order for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. He doesn't. We will therefore vote on the commandment of this draft law to discuss the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment to the Committee of Budgets, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 307, registered is 145 Members, for 116, against none, we have adopted the proposal. I also have a proposal from Mr Volný, who proposes to shorten the deadline for discussion by 30 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Sorry, sorry, I declare this vote confusing. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u10	Thank you. I'm sorry. I volunteered, Mr. Vice-President. Please order this press to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-005-039.u11	I'm sorry I missed this proposal. We will therefore also vote on this proposal to order this proposal from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm registering everyone's application to sign off, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this bill to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 309, vote registered by 127 Members, for 125, against none, and we have also adopted this proposal. We are therefore now going to shorten the deadline, as the Free Member has suggested, so that we reduce the deadline by 30 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in favor of cutting the deadline by 30 days, have him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 310, registered to 129 Members of Parliament, for 86, against 8, the proposal was adopted. I therefore note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the deadline has been reduced by 30 days, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. The next item in our programme is point number
