ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u1	86. Draft by Members Miroslav Grebeníček, Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, Marta Semelová and Kateřina Konečná to the Act amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the Amendment and Amendment of Other Acts (the Higher Education Act), as amended (the House Press 60/ - Third Reading) I ask that Mr Miroslav Grebeníček and the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Member František Vácha take the position of the rapporteur's chair. You have received the House Press 60/5, which contains a motion for rejection, and amendments have not been tabled. So I am opening up a debate that I am not registering any application for at the moment. I'm already registering one. Member and Chairman of KSČM Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u2	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, before the final vote on this proposal, let me express myself on behalf of the KSČM MEP, who, moreover, is the promoter of this proposal. It is, of course, undoubtedly, and after our decision this morning, even more undoubtedly, that in recent weeks or months, minimum wages have increased, increased, true, not as much as we would have liked, even pensions. There was also money for a 3.5 percent increase in salaries in the public sector and, after all, a 2.9% increase in the salaries of constitutional officials, judges, prosecutors as well, including ministers, presidents and so on. There is therefore no reasonable reason not to value the amount, i.e. the amount of the social scholarship of university students. This amount, which is fixed by the law, as is known, has not increased, therefore, since 2007. We have the end of 2014 and since 2007, the cost of living or the cost of study and associated costs has increased significantly. It is not good for socially weak students and for the establishment that the discussion of the proposal for valorisation of the social scholarship, which, by the way, was submitted last year, met with such delays that we are only getting to the final vote today, and that, therefore, even in the course of the discussion, there were rejections of the positions of some Members and Members. [[Noise in the hall.]] The claim, which has even been made here in the House, that students should start making extra money instead of valorisation, is not a reasonable argument in my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u3	I am so sorry, Mr President, your words have aroused colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies so much that they have started discussing between themselves instead of listening to you. I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u4	I don't think I have that much ability to excite anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u5	You underestimate yourself, Mr. Chairman. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u6	This is not only a limited opportunity to make a profit, but also the logic of a similar argument. According to this logic, even those who take a minimum wage or a very low wage in the public sector may have to earn a living in the current high unemployment rate. It's really an odd counterargument. If someone recently argued that he had even made six hundred in his studies, then of these six hundred he could certainly have paid considerably more costs without any significant problems than he did today and even six thousand. Accommodation in the dorm, and we remember, we elders who were studying at the time when we were earning the six hundred, accommodation in the dorm, full-day meals for the whole month, fare and still I had three hundred, two hundred fifty crowns, sometimes more, sometimes less. Today, unfortunately, the student's cost of living is, if I choke it a lot, a lot, nine thousand crowns a month. And that's not for any pop-up. And to advise students to take a place of proper study, or beside the study, to make extra money, especially in some challenging fields can have really serious consequences on the quality and length of the study. We want hardworking, talented, and hardworking students from socially weaker families to study. They studied successfully to be good doctors, teachers, engineers, or other educated professions, bringing the whole society a positive move forward. After all, education, as we all know, is able to drive society forward as quickly, as possible and in the most efficient way. [[10.40 hours]] So I can probably afford to appeal today to all those who have an idea of the difficulty of studying, the cost of families studying their children, and the strain of family budgets in many socially weaker families, so that you, colleagues and colleagues, support a proposal that does not impose any particular extreme demands on the state budget. After all, the money for simple valorization of social scholarships was already in this year's budget, it is not an excessive sum, it is a maximum of CZK 16 million for this year. Unfortunately, students who would need an increase in scholarships and who could help at least a little bit have not received them this year. Not because the Ministry of Education doesn't want to give the money, but because it's waiting for us here in this Chamber and then in the next Chamber to approve the Valorisation Act, which, as I said, is seven years late! Seven skinny years. The Minister for Education supports the proposal for valorisation of these scholarships, as we know from the outset. We could also hear the Prime Minister's position during the interventions, which he also expressed in favour. So today, colleagues and colleagues, we have a good opportunity to do something that this House had and could have done much earlier. I say for myself, as well as the Minister of Education, as well as the Prime Minister, that I am in favour of valorising the social scholarships of university students and of course we will support the proposal as well as the entire Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia. I would like to ask that, in the light of our vote this morning, the rest of us, from other Members' clubs, do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u7	I thank the President for his contribution. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I am asking the final words of the appellant, or of the rapporteurs, both Mr Vácha and Mrs Maxová. [[Messenger. I have no proposal, I identify with the previous speaker.]] So, Mr Grebeníček agrees with the previous speaker, Mr Vácha still wants the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the House to vote not by party jurisdiction, not by ideology. You can take an example from me, I'm an anti-communist, and I'll vote in favour. So you can try voting based on your conscience, depending on whether you want to help those students or your ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u9	I thank Mr Vách for his sensible agitation. And we will first vote on the motion for a rejection which has been tabled. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I have an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out here. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[Members are rushing into the hall.]] We will therefore vote on the motion to reject it, which was tabled during each reading. Initiating vote on the motion to dismiss. Whoever is in favour of rejecting this bill, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 42. 149 Members and Members were enrolled, for 70, against 66. The motion was not accepted. As amendments have not been tabled, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, Marta Semelová and Kateřina Konečná to the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and amending and supplementing other laws, as amended, according to House Press 60." [[Higher education law]] I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 43. 152 Members and Members registered, for 50, versus 58. The motion was not accepted. I am of the opinion that no consent has been given to the bill. The President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club shall be given the floor with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, you know, I would now, every time I hear from your mouth those words about promoting study, promoting education, supporting students, promoting an educational society, as well as equal access, equal chances for everyone who is given, and now I think, not in the wallet, but in the brain, into the brain, into the intelligence, into the ability to study, so I will always draw up the vote on this bill and every time I want to comment on what you did then, my colleague, my colleague, thought. But I won't. Just a sigh. We were able to vote for each other this morning, yes, and not for the students now? Let's think about this one more time. And maybe the next time a proposal like this comes, we'll hand it over, of course, and we invite you all to sign it, so you don't have to define here that the proposal is good, but the ugly communists have put it, so we can't support it, so we're writing it again and inviting you all to have an equal chance of joining it with us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-05-ps2013-023-04-002-086.u11	There. Thank you to President Kováčik. We will continue with the next item in our meeting, which is:
