ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-026-062.u1	62. Motion to elect the President of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate the way in which the Opencard case was investigated I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-026-062.u2	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the government, I wish you a good evening and we will begin the evening part of the agenda with another electoral point, which has already been announced, plus the other rounds of the other elections that we have conducted or which we have launched this afternoon. I'll take the recap. In a little while, I'm gonna ask you to make a secret choice, and that's right up to four secret elections. First of all, it will be the Opencard investigation committee, respectively. its chairman, we will nominate one member of the Council of the State Housing Development Fund in the second round, then one member of the missing Council of the Czech Radio and finally one member of the so-called. great advice on radio broadcasting. And now detailed information on paragraph 62, a firm proposal to elect the President of the Chamber of Deputies for the Opencard case. The following proposals were submitted to the electoral committee by the MPs within the deadline: for ČSSD Jan Chvojka, for TOP 09 Daniel Korte, for YES 2011 Bronislav Schwarz and for the Dawn Movement, Mr Jiří Štětina. I will remind Mr Štětina that he surrendered his candidacy at the beginning of the meeting this morning and informed in his speech that he was giving it in favour of Mr Bronislav Švarc. As regards the resolution, it is resolution 49 of the 9th meeting of the Election Commission of 25 March, which was forwarded to the Presidents of the MPs. Since the deadline for submitting a motion to the President was within 17 hours yesterday, we can, I can start this choice only today, 24 hours after the submission of the proposal by the parliamentary clubs to the electoral committee. And I will remind you that, under Section 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Presidents of the House's committees vote in a majority manner and a secret vote, and the election takes place in no more than two rounds. In the first round, therefore, the President of the Commission will be elected a candidate who will receive an absolute majority of the Members present. If none of the candidates obtains an absolute majority, the second round shall take place, where two candidates shall proceed in this case, who shall have won the first most votes in that round. It's the usual procedure you already know from the other elections. I will now ask you, Madam President, to open up the debate on the proposed candidates, and I will remind you that the proposal for a secret vote is not voted on, as this is the rule of law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-026-062.u3	Well, I will do so and open a debate that I have no one to sign up for, so I am ending the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-026-062.u4	Well, thank you, I'll continue. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I will not only ask for peace of mind, but I will also remind you that the second round of the election of the Czech Radio Council, the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council and the State Housing Development Fund will be held at the same time, so we will give you three ballots, and again, just to be sure - on each ballot, you should mark a maximum of one candidate by ringing a number before his name and the remaining candidate or candidates by marking a cross before their name. We're going to need 20 minutes to issue, so we're going to issue tickets within 17.25 hours, and I'm going to announce the results of the secret elections immediately after the census, and the House doesn't have to interrupt its negotiations for this time. Now, Madam President, I ask you to interrupt this point and declare a secret election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-026-062.u5	Mr President, given that you have reported that we will be doing the second round and the other elections, we must mention, launch and then interrupt the individual points. So I'm going to ask you, we're going to see your request that we vote in secret choices at once, so let's open up the remaining points so we don't have to run to the polls individually, on individual points, but at the same time. So, please, let's start negotiating a point.
