ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u1	36. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the House Print 79/ - second reading) I ask the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, to take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u2	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm here for Kjóto. I waited till late. I'll be more brief. The Czech Republic has been a Contracting Party to the Convention since 1994 and a Contracting Party to the Protocol since 2005 and the amendment to the Kyoto Protocol was adopted at the end of 2012. This change consists in defining new commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for economically advanced countries to be met by 2020. The purpose of this measure is to contribute to the stabilisation of greenhouse gas concentrations at a level that would prevent significant negative impacts on the environment. The reduction commitment accepted fully corresponds to the objective set by the European Union's rules in the context of the so-called climate-energy package. I would like to stress that this reduction commitment is fulfilled by the Czech Republic without any problems. The amendment to the Kyoto Protocol will not require the amendment of the legislation in force in the Czech Republic in this area and will also have no impact on the state budget, public administration or the corporate sphere. Thank you for your attention and please support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u3	I thank the Minister and the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Václav Zemk, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered to you as House Press 79/1. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I would like to read the resolution. At its meeting on 4 March, the Foreign Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolutions: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the amendment to the Kyoto Protocol and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u5	I thank the rapporteur. I am opening a debate to which I am registering Mr Stanjura's application, after which Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u6	I think at this point, we shouldn't let it go by the fact that it's relatively late and fast. The minister said that we are seamlessly fulfilling our obligations. That's not true. Every month on the energy invoice, citizens and companies pay for these commitments and these ideas. I wonder if China, India, the United States and the like have ratified this protocol so that we don't just take it away, because I think that's what I would say when madness leads to Europe losing competitiveness as a continent and as a once-leading economic power. And we're still not gonna let it go. You know, in recent weeks or months, the European Parliament has been discussing a new climate-energy package and new energy targets that, if they pass, we may say that we are fulfilling without any problems, but we will pay much more again and we will continue to pay for renewables. So I don't think we should go through this formally and say everything's okay. I would like the Minister to comment on this in more detail, as well as on who has ratified it, who does not, who does not observe it, who does not observe it, so that we are not more papal than the Pope and that the consequences do not fall on our companies and our citizens again. And since I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region, I always state as an example that the Republic of Poland negotiated for exceptions when entering the European Union. For example, the fact that even factories that stand just outside the borders and thanks to the prevailing wind direction are coming to us and our businesses that are their direct competitors have much stricter standards, and we still often want to tighten the standards beyond what the European Commission dictates. Which, of course, makes us a competitive disadvantage for our companies, which, of course, means we're losing jobs. And many governments have been struggling with this in the long run. I think that this government will face the unwillingness of the Republic of Poland to reduce this exemption and go to the same environmental limits as we do. And we negotiated, in a transitional measure, reduced VAT on diapers. So compare for yourself which government that negotiated it, I think there was a Pavel Telička who was more important and less important to the economy and employment. But I really urge that we have a detailed debate on this, so that, in a few years' time, when other Members sit here, they do not say, as I say, how could you vote on the promotion of renewable resources in 2005, almost all except my fellow Members from my political side, so that we do not get into the same situation. So the fact that it's only 19.55 shouldn't distract us from the detailed debate and not mechanically handle it, because the Foreign Committee has recommended it. I would really like to see the effects on us, on the signatories, and what an advantage competing with those who do not belong to the signatories to this Kyoto Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. Another duly registered member is Mr Miroslav Kalousek, after whom the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt about the Minister's sincere words, but this is an extremely important international treaty of the presidential type and I think we should consider whether it is in full harmony or not in full compliance with our constitutional order. And here I am convinced that it is necessary to realise what is part of our constitutional order and our democracy, where the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is a key cornerstone. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] So let us not forget that the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms was declared by the resolution of the Bureau of the Czech National Council as part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. This declaration of the Czech National Council was merely reinterpreted by the fact constitutionally established in Article 3 and Article 112 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. These provisions introduced the term "constitutional order," understood as constitutional order, a set of regulations, constitutional laws forming the Constitution of the Czech Republic. When the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms was adopted, the Constitutional Act No. 23/1991 Coll. of 9 January 1991 and designated as constitutional law adopted by the Federal Assembly of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, constitutional law No. 23/1991 Coll. According to Article 112 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u9	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I think you are reading a very serious text, and I ask my fellow Members to keep their voice down until the House of Honor is quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u10	Thank you, Mr President. It was very considerate of you. On the other hand, to those colleagues who are now feeling tired, I am willing to promise to take a picture, scan it and e-mail it to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u11	That's very considerate of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u12	However, I believe that this must be heard throughout the scope of some 520 pages of the text. [[Laughter and applause for a part of Members.]] Constitutional Act No. 23/1991 Coll. In accordance with Article 112 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 3 The Constitution of the Czech Republic remained a part of the Czech rule of law, but it continues to have only the power of the law. For this reason, its provisions apply if they have not been amended or repealed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic or later by another law and can therefore stand up to their standards. The declaration of the sentence of this resolution of the Bureau of the Czech National Council follows the introductory sentence of Constitutional Law No. 23/1991 Coll., which has been declared the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as a constitutional law declaring its inclusion in the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic. [[20.00 hours]] The act declaring the Bureau of the Czech National Council could not influence, or to change, the legal force of the Charter and its previous designation as a constitutional law, but also its status enshrined already in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This would only belong to the Czech National Council at the time and only in the form of a constitutional law. [[Some members of the ČSSD smile with amusing and significant laughter. ANO Members gradually leave the hall until their benches remain empty.]] This sentence therefore only declares the inclusion of the Charter among the regulations, it belongs to the Constitution of the newly introduced concept of constitutional order, as established by the Constitution, and stresses its importance. Only constitutional laws can be part of the constitutional order, i.e. a set of constitutional standards, if you want the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u13	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. First of all, I beg the House of Honor to keep it down again. For one thing, I beg you to put the microphone closer to your mouth so that your loud voice sounds clearer, which corresponds to the constitutional charter of rights and freedoms you read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u14	I am very sorry, Mr President. Therefore, if you consider that the Chamber of Deputies has not heard me, I consider it necessary, given the seriousness of the text, to take it again from the outset.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u16	Thank you. The title of this constitutional law, namely the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, states that the rights and freedoms contained in this regulation are considered fundamental rights and freedoms. The announcement by the Bureau of the Czech National Council stated that it is fundamental rights and freedoms declared again by this body of the emerging independent Czech Republic. This publication has changed nothing to the fact that the Charter is part of the constitutional order in force in the Czech Republic continuously since the adoption of constitutional law No. 23/1991 Coll. However, it was not until the publication of a part of the 1993 Collection of Laws - compare with Section 5 of Act 545/1992 Coll. - but the legal significance of this declaration is only declaratory and must be interpreted here - please, the fact that the legal interpretation of these articles, which I have just quoted, is only declaratory, I consider to be crucial in relation to the Kyoto Protocol. [[Mr Kalousek, with his finger raised, emphasizes the meaning of his words.]] Here, please let us realize the confrontation of the extent to which there is a factual link and to what extent it is only declaratory. The legal significance of this decree - I repeat again - is only declaratory and must be interpreted with regard to the approval of the Bureau of the Czech National Council at that time and the relevant provisions of the Act on the Collection of Laws 143/1968 Coll. the version still in force at the time. The new declaration of Czechoslovak constitutional laws, which became part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, was not necessary even in other cases. The preamble to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, according to the will of the Constitutional Devotor, is not only a declaration, but it formulates the most important principles and sources of fundamental rights and freedoms as the rights of natural and incorruptible. According to the intelligence report, the expression of the nature of these rights and the sovereignty of the law in the preamble is intended to create a reliable basis for the rule of law in which only one can develop one's personality. [[The Member puts emphasis on his words with the voice and gestures of his right hand.]] From this point of view, the legal importance of this preamble should be assessed. It is an integral part of the Charter under which it is published. It is undoubtedly necessary to interpret it in connection with the preamble to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. To the importance of the preamble in the constitutional text - see a closer comment, which I will introduce you to sometime after the fourth hour of the morning, was prepared in the Federal Assembly of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics. [[Laughing from the benches to the right, with other Members rather astonishment]] Based on this text, the Czech National Council and the Slovak National Council prepared their proposals. The proposal of the Czech National Council was submitted as a print of 331. [[He's turning towards the minister.]] Mr. Secretary, this is important information, please. The Slovak National Council's proposal as a print 330. None of these parliamentary prints was assumed to have been the existence of an introductory law. Only in Parliament's press number 392, the report of the Committees of the Constitutional Houses of the People and the House of Nations, is separated from the Charter. Parliamentary press 331 or 392 do not contain a explanatory report. Mr. Dolejš, please, could you scream a little less? [[Towards a crowd of standing Members.]] I would like to introduce the Chamber of Deputies with rather important constitutional law conventions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u17	I'll ask for peace in the House. Thank you. I ask Mr Kalousek to continue when it is quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u18	Well, I guess I wouldn't start at all. [[Loud laugh in the hall.]] But thank you for the effort. The natural rights of a person according to this concept exist independently of the decision of the State.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u19	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I must ask the Members to stop taking pictures at the speaker's counter, Mr ČSSD, to stop banging their ballot cards on the table, and those who are making their calls here to move them to the galleys. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u20	You see, Mr President, and I am so caught up in my fundamental interpretation that I have not noticed at all that this is happening here. [[Laughter from the benches on the right.]] The principle of the sovereignty of the law is thus declared one of the foundations of the Czech rule of law, and the Charter applies to the same principles as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, i.e. to the values of the rule of law, whose principle of the sovereignty of the law is a conceptual sign. The natural rights of a person according to this concept exist independently of the decision of the State. That is precisely what Parliament recognised and made it the fundamental principle of this Charter. By guaranteeing these rights in the various provisions of the Charter, the State also undertakes to protect them. Those principles follow the generally shared values of mankind, which have ancient traditions, in the postwar period. They were expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1948 as its resolution. They were later included in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. There is also a reference to the democratic and self-governing traditions of our nations. In the Czech lands these traditions were established in the time of Austria, they developed in municipal and interest municipalities, in the federal and cooperative movement. The Charter states that only the fulfillment of humanistic ideals that worked in the birth of the Czechoslovak state and cooperation with other free nations is a guarantee of the further existence of our statehood. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms also responds to bitter experiences from when human rights and freedoms were suppressed. Since the creation of Czechoslovakia, this has been the case at the time of the so-called. the second republic, which, in an effort to adapt to Nazi Germany, turned away from the democratic foundations on which Czechoslovakia was in 1918... Mr Chvojka, do you really think you have to scream so inhumanely? Couldn't you just keep your voice down a little bit?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u21	Ambassador Chvojka, I beg you to remain calm. Mr Kalousek, please address the Members only through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u22	By your means, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Chvojka if he could shout humanely, if he has so far screamed inhumanely. Since the creation of Czechoslovakia, this has been the case at the time of the so-called. the second republic, which, in an effort to adapt to Nazi Germany - I repeat - has turned away from the democratic foundations on which Czechoslovakia was established in 1918. It suppressed democratic freedoms and supported anti-Semitism. Another such period was the German occupation, when the Czech nation was threatened by the already planned genocide, which in the first phase affected mainly Jewish fellow citizens, and the theory of inequality of human beings was applied. The preamble also refers to other periods after the establishment of the power of the Communist Party, which also exercised the government's means of suppressing natural civil and human rights and neglecting constitutionality and legality, i.e. contrary to the principles on which this Charter is based. The security of rights and freedoms is not just a matter for individual states and their governments, but a result of the responsibility of all free nations that express common ideas in international conventions concluded in the last decade. Not even a reference to the responsibility of the present generations to the next generations for the fate of all life on Earth is meant to have a deceptive character. Given the priority importance of the Charter of Lawmaking, this formulation is to be a directive for the activities of legislators in this area of human rights, caused by concerns about environmental threats to humanity. This Charter should have taken a decisive step to include the Republic with States which respect and promote these values together. The preamble to the Charter follows the opening statement of the Constitutional Charter of 1920, where the same spirit expressed the will to introduce just orders in the Republic, to ensure peaceful development of the Czechoslovak homeland, to contribute to the general well-being of all citizens of this state and to secure the blessing of freedom in the next generation. Similar inspirational sources of both documents in this respect are evident from some similar other formulas. A different concept in relation to the principle of the sovereignty of the law was expressed by the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic in its Decision No. 14/1994 Coll. The Constitutional Court of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic applied to the principle of the sovereignty of the law, based also on the preamble to the Charter as a rule of law, in its finding of 4 September 1992, the registration mark PL ÚS - for the unknown ÚS is the Constitutional Court - 5/92. The preamble to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is an integral part of the constitutional text. The principles expressed in it are constitutional principles binding on legislators in the adoption of laws and for the Constitutional Court in interpreting all laws and regulations of lower legal force. Whatever is contained in the laws, whether in their parts normative or non-normal, cannot be contrary to the principles contained in this preamble relating to the federal arrangement of Czechoslovakia, if the rule of law is to form a unified and unbiased whole. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Constitution of the Czech Republic is headed by the general provisions of the Charter as well. They thus relate to all the rights and freedoms contained in the Charter and are their starting point. They have their origins in the constitutions of the North American colonies and follow up on the wordings contained in Art. Even the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen of August 26, 1789, by which representatives of the French people who created the National Assembly decided to interpret the natural, inalienable and sacred rights of man in the solemn declaration. This article stated: "People are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social differences can only be created if it calls for social benefits." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. IV The Declaration stated what freedom means: "Freedom lies in the possibility of doing anything that does not harm anyone else. Thus, the exercise of the natural rights of each person has only those limits which ensure the use of those rights by other members of society." At the same time, declaring man's freedom meant rejecting submission and slavery or other forms of legal dependence and inequality between people. From this point of view, the principles of freedom and equality were directly related. We have found anchoring these principles since then in the laws of constitutional and other states. They remained contained in them, although the naturalistic theory was rejected. [[20.20 hours]] The United Nations General Assembly expressed it as a fundamental principle of human rights after World War II experiences in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and anchored it in Article 1. Please quote: "All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act together in the spirit of brotherhood." [[Weak applause from the right.]] This provision of the Preamble Charter applies to all people, every person without exception, whether he is a citizen of the Czech Republic, a citizen of another state or a stateless person, declares the fundamental principles of the status of human beings freedom and equality in dignity and rights. These principles are designed to be consistent with the entire rule of law and to ensure compliance with them in the state's arrangement. The Charter shall be applied to these principles. Thus, the provisions of this Article are particularly important in terms of the ideal and political declaration, which provides for a natural source of rights and freedoms of citizens who are not donated by the State. The equality of people is not taken absolutely in this provision, but in relation to dignity and rights. It cannot be so limited by any law, as it emerges from human nature. Any narrative, or if you want human rights privileges, as well as discrimination against individuals or groups are contrary to both the natural principles of humanity and this constitutional charter. Equality in this concept is not limited to equality between people before the law, but in the concept of equality in rights it includes equality before the law. This means that standards of the rule of law should impose obligations or other disadvantages, such as penalties, and provide rights and other benefits to all under the same conditions equally. From this point of view, it is not just a statement of principle and programme, but a valid legal standard. A law cannot be adopted that favours someone in proceedings before a court or other authority or access to certain rights for his sex, race, religion, property, social status or origin. Equality in proceedings before the courts is contained in Article 96 of the Constitution and also before other bodies in Article 37 (2) of the Constitution. 3 of the Charter. The exception to full equality before the law are various types of immunity, as I'm sure you know, colleagues, and your own practice. The concept of human dignity is explained in the commentary, which I will introduce you to again during the morning wailing. The equality of people in dignity expresses the fact that in the territory of the Czech Republic the breeding and order and all rights arising from them, including the so-called rights of the honest, among which we rank the law of the coat of arms, the title and so on, were abolished by the law of 10 December 1918 by the number 61 Coll. The privileges of the genus associated with the designation of special dignity have been abolished. The equality of people in rights is expressed in the prohibition of discrimination, which is set out below in Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 Charter, in a number of other constitutional standards and in international treaties. However, the concept of human dignity is broader than that expressed in Section 2 of Title 8 of the Criminal Code. So I was wondering who's disturbing me. You two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u23	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. We're handing over the management of the meeting, so we were just clearing up some arguments. However, I do not want to interrupt the creation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms in audioversion. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u24	Forgive me, Mr President, but I am deeply convinced that what I have said is closely related to the international treaty of the Czech Republic and joining the Kyoto Protocol, because the fact whether or not the Kyoto Protocol is in accordance with our constitutional order is quite a crucial issue and it is therefore not from the point of view to repeat some of the key issues of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. So, given what you have just said, Mr President, I would like to point out that no one, according to our constitutional order, can become a volunteer, not even a slave or a serf under the law. A treaty that would be contrary to these principles would also be invalid. For example, if we had a contractual relationship, I would enslave you. This treaty would certainly be abolished, whether in the proper, worst case in the Constitutional Court. Nor does the fact that these rights have not been exercised for a long time or have been suppressed change their duration because they cannot be withheld. Here, please, let us really realize that this is about rights that can't be withheld. There is no limitation period, and we should be well aware of this on the issue of all human rights. Such rights cannot be abolished in any way, even by the law of any legal force, by constitutional law or by the majority will of the people expressed in the referendum. It acts against everyone, and this implies the obligation of everyone not to interfere with the exercise of those rights. In exercising these rights, I'm afraid the members of the government are disturbing me here behind my back. In addition to this provision... No, who doesn't like it, so by 4:00 in the morning, I'll be giving my report, and then we can continue. [[Mr. Janulík nods that he doesn't like it.]] I'm not stopping you from -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u25	Mr President, please do not address the Members directly, first of all. Secondly, I will be careful to ensure that there is a dignified atmosphere and that you can finish your report in peace, because, as I said, the audioversion of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is a unique project, on which you will certainly have great merit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u26	Thank you. In any case, by your means, I would like to say to Mr Janulík that I understand that he is not enjoying this and that I do not insist that he listen to me. However, I insist that, at this point in connection with the Kyoto Protocol, I must present this report so that we can all decide according to our best knowledge and conscience. The Charter, by its name, states that it contains fundamental rights and freedoms. It certainly applies to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, whether any person or citizen. Only they can talk about the rights of natural and inalienable. The contemporary concept of natural rights based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is based on the fact that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Freedom and equality in this sense are linked to the birth of people. The notion expressed in one of the previous versions of the draft Charter that it may apply to legal persons, if the nature of the rights expressed so permits, is not accepted. However, certain rights of legal persons are not excluded from international agreements. The Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic adopted such an opinion and follows from Section 72 of Act 182/1993 Coll. But it can't be natural rights, acquired by birth. Lawyers are usually born by a contract, an act of the state and so on. Yet some of the provisions of the Charter go beyond that definition. [[20.30 hours]] The considerable scope and diversity of rights and freedoms contained in the Charter and the terminological incompatibility of the titles of their sections separating the various parts of the Charter raises the question which rights and freedoms are fundamental within the meaning of the second sentence of this Article, and those attributes can be fully applied to them, or by their nature they are not contrary to the opposite wordings in the Charter. The second sentence undoubtedly follows the first sentence and refers to human rights. In the various provisions on rights and freedoms contained in the Charter, their nature of the rights of inalienable and incorruptible is reflected in different ways and rates. Such a question was also asked by constitutional law in connection with the formulation of the universal rights of citizens of state in the 1867 law. Dr. Pražák explained their sense of guaranteeing a certain degree of individual freedom, i.e. the inviolability of the natural circle of individuality and the opposition to political freedom, which indicates us the widest possible positive participation of the nation in the life of state. Fundamental rights in democratic states are considered to be the rights or claims of people towards a state which does not have a private character, i.e. subjective public rights. By public law, individuals are granted permission to require certain behaviour from the State. I admit that I am slightly emotionally affected by this small interest, and therefore I would like to put forward a procedural proposal in which we would like to vote without debate that we are interrupting this meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow. [[O.R. is half empty.]] Please, Mr President, put my procedural proposal to a vote without debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u27	Yes, of course I will comply with your proposal, only to call my fellow Members to the House. For those returning from the lobby, I would just like to point out that Mr Kalousek has proposed that the meeting be adjourned by 9 o'clock tomorrow. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the meeting be adjourned, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 109. It's registered 127, for 28, against 54. This proposal has not been adopted, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u28	That refreshed me mentally. Thank you, colleagues. I understand that my interpretation is still of interest. [[Applause, laughter, entertainment and shouting in the hall.]] Then we can proceed. Fundamental rights in democratic states are considered to be the rights or claims of people towards a state which does not have a private character, i.e. subjective public rights. By public law, individuals are granted permission to require certain behaviour from the State. Fundamental rights are usually enshrined in the Constitution and thus binding not only on the exercise of the law but also on the legislature. In the constitutions of different states, they are marked differently. Fundamental rights, fundamental rights and public freedoms, constitutionally guaranteed rights, etc. Fundamental rights are not only a barrier to State intervention, but also a commitment by the State to protect and secure fundamental rights. International treaties that express the consensus of a number of nations and states on what they understand in such human rights standards universally applicable may also be a guide to the light of the concept of fundamental rights and freedoms. But we will not find in them an exhaustive answer what to consider as the rights and attributes mentioned in the second sentence of this article. Both pacts in their preambles call for recognition of the natural dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family and recognise that these rights derive from the natural dignity of the human being. The European Convention in Article I provides that the Contracting Parties shall grant to any person subject to their jurisdiction, rights and freedoms referred to in the Convention, at the same time in the event of war or any other public threat to the state of existence, measures to withdraw from this Convention, with the exception of the right to life, the prohibition of torture or the submission of inhuman or degrading treatment or the punishment of the prohibition of slavery and servitude and the prohibition of retroactivity. Here at this point, perhaps it would be necessary to reassure the Minister of the Environment that accession to the Kyoto Protocol does not in any way threaten these obligations, that is to say, there is no question of torture or of subjecting inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the prohibition of slavery and servitude, or the prohibition of retroactivity. In this case, you can be calm, Minister, but a number of other questions remain open. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in Article 4 provides that, in an emergency which is officially declared as a result of a threat to the life of the nation, the Contracting Parties may take measures to mitigate their obligations under the Pact to the extent required by the needs of such a situation, provided that such measures do not conflict with other obligations under international law and do not entail discrimination by race, skin color, sex, language, religion or social origin. In such a case, it shall not be possible to derogate from Article 6, (7) and (8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, 2, Article 11, 15, 16 and 18 of this Pact. The threat to the life of a nation, namely a specific case leading to a state of emergency, is the only reason for limiting or suspending the guarantees of certain natural rights under this pact under the conditions set out below. But even in such a situation, there is no right to intervene in the absolute prohibition of discrimination, the right to life, the prohibition of torture, the subjection of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or the punishment of the ban on slavery and servitude, the imprisonment of inability to comply with contractual obligations - here I would like to point out that the imprisonment of debtors is already contrary to the Charter - which is mentioned in those articles. Only those rights in both contracts calculated shall be considered absolutely incorruptible to their signatories. However, there is no support for such classification in the Charter. Article 6 (1) (a) 1 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, only provides that, at the same time as the announcement of an emergency situation, the government must define which government provided for in a special law and to what extent, in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the obligations and to what extent they are imposed. [[rights]] The details are to be laid down by law. These general principles relate, according to the freedom and equality expressed in the previous case, in particular to personal freedoms born by the American and French revolutions, which limited the state power and guaranteed the autonomy of man. After World War I, some collective rights were declared. The application of the right of nations to self-determination was one of the arguments for the emergence of Czechoslovakia and other states. International treaties also recognised the rights of minorities, which were directly related to the recognition of the rights of the nations. Social rights were expressed after the establishment of the International Labour Organisation by a number of conventions which Czechoslovakia also acceded to. [[20.40 hours]] However, especially since World War II, economic, social and cultural rights, as natural rights, are among the internationally recognised human rights, as well as those contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. They require positive action from the state. Such rights are also identified as inalienable in other contracts to which Czechoslovakia has acceded and which, according to Article 10 of the Constitution, are immediately binding on the Czech Republic, and are even - please, pay attention here - preferred to the law. This is the case, for example. in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women concluded in New York on 18 December 1979, which in Article 11 identifies the right to work as an inalienable right of all human beings. They are also treated by rights such as the right to a healthy environment, natural resources and other collective rights. Again, Mr President, I am sorry, I am afraid the Chamber of Deputies does not want to follow such a serious text. [[Half-empty benches.]] That is why I would like to put forward a procedural motion to suspend the debate by 9 a.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u29	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. By tomorrow night until...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u30	Nine hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u31	I'm afraid we can't vote on the same thing twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u32	Nine to ten. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u33	I see. That, of course, is voteable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. [[Members are running into the hall. Checkout note.]] I have begun the vote. Okay. So I'm a tolerance myself. I'm going to declare this misguided, however much the application for withdrawal didn't come through during the vote, so theoretically, I wouldn't have to accept it, but okay. I'm gonna sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. [[It's happening.]] I still only have 54 logged in on the board. [[Disagree in plenary, 54 is a kvorum.]] I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I've been looking at most of them, they're 107, so we can vote. I'm sorry. Thanks for the heads-up. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of interrupting the meeting by tomorrow in nine o'clock, 10 minutes, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 111, registered 100, 13 pros, versus 62. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO and Dawn movement.]] This proposal was not adopted. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u34	Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. Every time I check with the outside signs that you're after all interested, it's gonna charge me awfully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u35	Perhaps we could agree that the Chamber of Deputies is really interested, and we would not have to worry about it by another vote. Because apparently, the House has already given its opinion twice that it is very interested in your audiobook. [[Laughs in plenary.]] So please continue. However I don't want to restrict your right to design anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u36	I promise, Mr President, there's no way I'm gonna verify it anymore. I'm just gonna be here reading things that I consider absolutely essential in connection with the Kyoto Protocol. Human rights are based on a natural legal principle in the Czech legal order, but the requirements for them are both inherent and legal positivity. They rest on the position of a person in society. Civil rights express the status of a citizen towards the state as well as in the state. There are currently disputes about the content of the concept of natural rights and their relationship to positive law. For example, from case law, we could quote from the Constitutional Court ruling of 19 January 1994. I don't want to bother you with that text. Please find it in open sources or from the declaration of the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic in ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Once again, I could quote the text here, but I want to save your time, which is why I would just like to talk about the essentials. The provisions of the first paragraph of the Charter also express the prerequisites for the application of human rights in the state, i.e. democratic values, which must be understood as the basis of the state. The Charter sets state limits in relation to ideologies and religious institutions that are their carriers. - Here again, we must realise that when we approach the Kyoto Protocol, however secular we are a society, we are based on the different cultural and religious traditions of the different countries that have approached it. In the application of the first paragraph, the prerequisites for human rights in the state are expressed, democratic values as the basis of the state. The Charter sets state limits in relation to religious ideologies, institutions. This expresses the democratic idea of a lay state and a non-ideological state in the sense that it does not bind and obey any exclusive ideology, but assumes their real pluralism. Democratic values are specified and detailed in the text of the Constitution in other articles of the Charter. The democratic values are already referred to in Article 1 of the Constitution, which calls the Czech Republic a democratic rule of law based on respect for the rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Article 22 of the Charter counts on these principles the free competition of political forces in a democratic society. Democratic values are expressed and secured in democratic institutions and in their proper functioning. Their observance makes the legitimacy of state power conditional. Denying these values would be based on the right of citizens to oppose Article 23 of the Charter if the activities of the constitutional authorities and the effective use of legal means were prevented. The expression of democratic value, given its nature, must be interpreted sufficiently widely. In the given context, it also contains the requirements expressed in the second part of the sentence. It is forbidden for the state to bind itself to any exclusive ideology. In the past, it was the ideology of Marxist-Lenin. It may be any ideology that personifies its exclusive rule against each individual, the right to its monopoly to which it would submit to the whole society, and other ideologies do not allow and prevent their free competition. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this part of the Constitution of the Czech Republic was necessary to be heard in the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. I believe that this text should be developed and deserved to continue, but it would be unfair to the Minister of the Environment, because the next part of this text is more related to Articles 30 and 31. So I would like to introduce you to the text at the next item in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. Thank you for your attention for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u37	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr. Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, however, really like the Minister to say, in the case of such agreements, which also have significant economic implications, as Mr Stanjura here has said, indeed, an analysis of the real effects. I think there's a time when these contracts were formally spinning. I have no problem with any treaties on criminal matters, extradition, extradition with individual countries, double taxation and so on. I am sorry that I seem to have overlooked - I think this treaty should have been a matter of interest to the Committee on the Environment. I believe that the Minister should at least say here the framework implications of the commitments made by this Treaty. And now I really don't mean it for some reason, but what Stanjura said here, too, that Europe is committed, but not the main polluters on the planet. The weather is global, no one chooses. Therefore, I would like the Minister to respond to this, and if you, too, would be interested, I would like to make a procedural proposal for it to go back to discussing the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u39	I am afraid that we cannot vote now, so I will have the debate run out. Mr Zemek with a technical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u40	Thank you, Mr President. In fact. I just want to make one point here. When this standard was voted on by the Foreign Committee, colleagues, your colleagues from the right side of the spectrum, voted in favour. So keep your clubs in order, and don't keep us here with unnecessary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u41	Yes, thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u42	I don't know what my previous speaker meant. Am I to be bound, as a Member, by my colleague's vote on a committee or can I make my own decision? I think the Constitution is telling us clearly. Save your order training for the coalition. Today we saw what we had with the program. I would ask if the Minister could answer the questions and then, if necessary, I would apply with additional questions on the impact and, in particular, the signatories, because this is a serious matter. I don't want to make it any easier or longer. I know that you are a member of the Green Members and that you may be personally close to them and that you support this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u43	I would like you to address Mr Zemk through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u44	Mr. Chairman, I didn't name anyone. I don't know how you knew who I was talking to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u45	I deduced it from the fact that you responded to the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u46	I'd ask you not to deduce. If I address anyone specifically, you're absolutely right. If I speak symbolically like this, I don't know who else I can identify with the fact that there's a green MP on different sides. Of course I don't know. I'm talking to those who think they're green and that the accounts we pay for renewables are okay, and they'd like us to pay even more to reduce the competitiveness of our companies even more. Why not? I'll take that as a legitimate opinion. I just don't agree with it. I have a different opinion. It's not a formal debate for me. It's not like something's coming. Maybe the European Union's mainstream already approved it, I don't know. But it's not really a formal debate for me, and it's serious stuff. I already said that today at the first show. If anyone criticizes us for possibly approving it, then I want to know that before I voted, I got the relevant information. You're smiling, some of you. You're applying to the Green Members. I'm not applying. Very often I hear from the government coalition how they want to promote the competitiveness of our companies. I am fully in favour, but I am afraid these are the things that reduce competitiveness not only for companies in the Czech Republic but for Europe as a whole. And one day we have to say, "Enough." It didn't work. Let us remember, for example, the Lisbon Strategy, which all the Euro-Hungarians told us years ago. It was actually what we know from communism - to catch up and overtake the United States. When I asked officials in Brussels what would happen if we didn't do it, and we didn't do it, because the deadline for the United States to go ahead of innovation, science and research has already been missed, the official who speaks about 15 languages has thought deeply and says: "This is a good question. Then we'll evaluate it, redo it, and adopt another strategy." But this strategy, the Kyoto Protocol has clearly failed. It has an impact on the European economy, and I think it is right that we are debating this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u47	Yes, thank you. I now have a factual remark from Mr Petr, then with priority rights - the Minister and President Kalousek are here. Let's make a point of fact first, and I'm sure you'll come to an agreement. Mr Petrů, with a factual remark, has two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u48	Honorable ladies, honourable gentlemen, do you know why people in the Czech Republic judge us worse than cleaners? I'm gonna let those housekeepers apologize today. Because what we're doing today is a huge disgrace. Let's think about ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u49	One more point of fact: Mr. Chairman of ODS Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u50	Now, through the President, Mr Zemek. None of the ODS Members voted for it. I think that's relevant information. When you talk like that in general, say which political parties supported it. None of our Members voted for this - in the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u51	Now, let me ask you what the deal is. First the Minister, then President Kalousek. Isn't that right? I don't mean to call on you, but I understand that's the deal. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I have not felt a sense of drought, security and legal certainty in the negotiations of the Treaty for a long time, as I did after this introduction, and I am doing well. I would just like to say that both international agreements are already implemented into the law of the Czech Republic. The reason for this proposed step is merely a formal reconciliation of the negotiation process with the applicable constitutional requirements. And it's Constitutional Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended. The Convention and Protocol were originally approved by the Government as Government Treaties, by Government Resolution No. 323 of 16. 6. 1993 Conventions and Nos. 669 of 12. 10. 1998 Protocol. The accession of the Czech Republic to both international agreements took place before the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic by constitutional law No. 395/2001 Sb. This amendment has more clearly modified the criteria for determining for which international treaties they are subject to ratification of the consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the so-called presidential Treaty, and according to these criteria the Convention and Protocol fall within the category of presidential treaties. The proposal to ensure additional approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and subsequent ratification by the President of the Republic of both international treaties shall be submitted on the basis of a communication from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dated 24. 1. In this regard, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that there is a need for additional ratification of the two Treaties. This procedure has recently been applied, for example, in the negotiation of so-called air agreements. This, to explain and thank you for your question, Mr President, from President Stanjura, because I would not dare, believe me, my innate humility would not allow me to present such a fundamental matter to this House if it had not already been implemented into the law of the Czech Republic. This means that these are not new commitments, folks. Of course. These are indeed formal modifications. That is also why the Treaty went to the Foreign Committee and not to the Economic Committee. Because if this was a new commitment, and we have actually already accepted this commitment by joining the European Union, if there is an obligation to reduce it, a commitment within the European Union, by 20 percent, emissions by 2020 compared to 1990, CO2 emissions, then I would like to stress that to date the Czech Republic has exceeded this commitment, because to date we have reduced CO2 levels by 34 percent compared to the 1990 limit. So there's no new commitment. But my colleague Stanjura is absolutely right, and I would very much like to support him in this, that if today is a so-called climate-energy package by 2030, there is a very careful new government and it is only a reduction that is achievable for us without any additional cost for the Czech Republic. I want to assure you, that's a big debate in the government. [[21.00 hours]] I also want to assure you, my colleague, through Mr President, that for example. For us there is absolutely no binding limit in the field of renewable resources, which is exactly what Czech households and Czech businesses of course cost a lot of money and Czech companies cost, respectively. they are deprived of competitiveness in the international market. That means, please, this is a legal reconciliation process that has long been concluded. These are not new commitments. We fill them without any problems. There are 195 Contracting Parties to the Convention, which are within the United Nations, of course, all the states of the European Union, and there really are no new commitments for us. If that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u53	I apologise to Mr Kalousek, but there is still a factual remark from Mr Zemk. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u54	I am just very briefly for my colleague Stanjura through you, Mr President. I am a member of the Social Democratic Party, not the Green Party. With regard to the vote on the foreign committee, I meant colleagues from the right side of the spectrum. Now I really don't want to argue about whether or not there was an ODS, but everyone voted completely in favour. That's all I wanted to do. Otherwise if you are interested in discussing how to e.g. consists of the price of electricity, how much of which is the share of renewable sources and combined heat production, how much of which is the price for distribution and other items, we can then discuss it in another forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u55	Now President Kalousek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please forgive, Mr Zemek, through the President and the President, but our Members really are not bound to have a united view and to vote unitedly as sheep. It is precisely because we are aware of the complexity of this issue and that some of us are bound by our conscience to have a somewhat different opinion, I have devoted quite a considerable scope to the legal interpretation of this issue and I am glad that I preferred the Minister. I've tried to be very brief. I'll admit I'll try to explain it in more detail next time. But the minister said the same thing much more pregnant than I did in my thickened speech. I'd like to confirm his words. It is the opinion of TOP 09, but some of us may have a different opinion, which is nothing against democracy. I would strongly object to your accusing us that some of us vote differently in the specialised bodies of the House and otherwise in plenary. After all, I think it is none of your business, Mr Zemek, through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u57	Thank you. With proper application by Mr Laudát, then by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the President, and I believe him, although he is a Social Democrat, I withdraw the proposal not to complicate it, and I thank the Minister for his professional speech, which is mostly not seen from the present ministers. I would just say to Mr Petrů by means of you: do not be angry with us, but what you have done today in a very basic, vital matter for this republic - you are improving the point instead of making sure our partners, our allies, who guarantee our security, and instead you have brought it up, and you have actually turned the Czech Republic into a bunch of crooks. Don't be mad at me, I don't know who should be embarrassed here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u59	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I didn't see you. Mr. Chalupa's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u60	Colleagues and colleagues, I think citizens will take their own view of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u61	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Stanjura with a proper application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u62	If Mr Zemek proposes a debate in the House of Deputies on the price of electricity, I will welcome it and support that point. I'll take the bills, I'll pay for years, and I'll look at the OZ payment item as it grew over the years, from CZK 5 to CZK 585 in 2013, when we have the final bill all of us who pay electricity. I think that's wise. Perhaps we could read the 2005 speeches and say who here held what opinion. When my colleague Martin Říman warned here at that time about uncontrollable price growth, which will have an impact on the competitiveness of Czech businesses and household spending, your colleagues, and not only your colleagues, laughed at him for unnecessarily haunting etc. Sometimes it is not from the point of view to the debates that were before or when the law was adopted. About what the Minister said. On the one hand, I understand, on the other hand, I wonder if the three specific countries are signatories, if they ratified it. One thing that somebody signed it, then they didn't ratify it, it means it's something that can be done with a fiscal pact - we're gonna sign it, but we're not gonna keep it. This is precisely what is important in the fight on the global market between Europe, Asia and some economies that don't give a damn about environmental limits that don't give a damn about social rights, minimum wages, and I don't know what I can name. That's why we warn against it. It's not a coalition versus opposition duel, I think we could have a common view here. I am pleased that the government is careful about this, about the proposal for a new climate package, but your government colleagues, MEPs for the ČSSD, supported this as one man and one woman, when discussed in the European Parliament. And we see it as a danger when the largest government party, virtually. those Members who will really vote on this, i.e. Members of the European Parliament, we will not vote on this, it is as if they support it in Eurohujersky against the interest of the Czech Republic. But I noticed both the Prime Minister's appearance and the many members of the government who questioned it and said, "No, not like that, it wouldn't be quite right like that. But I think that's a good thing. I think we're not just here to criticize everything. This is a reasonable, realistic attitude, in which you will have our support. But still, maybe the last question: What happens if we don't approve? What's gonna happen? I don't think anything at all, but maybe I'm wrong. After the debate on constitutional order in the Czech Republic, I am slightly alarmed if we do not vote in favour. What's gonna happen? Maybe if someone explained it, it would help us make a decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u63	Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u64	I will explain this to Mr Stanjur, through the President, on other points. Now I only volunteered to express the same hope expressed by Mr Chalupa that citizens will take their own opinion on the basis of today's negotiations. I am a Member of the Chamber of Deputies for the 16th year. And over the 16 years, I do not remember the subject as crucial and important as the issue of key security and presence - whether the past presence of Soviet troops or the potential presence of NATO troops in our territory. I do not remember such an important law as the fundamental ignorance of the key institution, such as the Chamber of Deputies, which says: we do not want any opinion about it! Because Mr Chalupa doesn't want any opinion about it. Assuming I have an opinion, comrades, I assure you that I do not agree with my opinion. It's something so alarming that it can't leave us in peace and it can't leave us in a standard meeting. I would like to say to you here with all due respect and seriousness, colleagues, that until the point on which we are stuck, and you know what the point is, this is a point that you vetoed, that until this item is discussed by the Chamber of Deputies, you cannot count on our constructive approach to the negotiations until then, because no other point - none! [[Talks Strongly]] - we won't consider it as important as the one you don't want to discuss!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u65	In fact, Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to correct President Kalousek through you. We are not discussing any law, as he said, but Mr. Stropnickýý's media statement. Mr. Stropnický explained to us this afternoon how it was distorted, he gave us all possible explanations. I strongly hope that all agencies in the world, including Reuters, will take over if they're interested in us. But, of course, Mr Kalousek and others have the right to delay the House from adopting important laws, such as the Act on extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u67	Now I have a few factual points here. The first was Mr Chalupa and then, electronically, Mr Novotný and Mr Stanjura, so in that order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u68	I thank my colleague Kalousek through the President. I have some opinions, and one of those opinions is that what this country's defense looks like after ten years of your reign is completely trivial. That's my opinion. One of the few opinions I have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u69	Now, Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u70	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to electronic forms of communication at this late hour. When we all get to our homes, if you have an internet connection there, please listen to the authentic sound from the relevant servers, without distorting the expression of Minister Stropnický, who is commonly available there today on every server. And try asking yourself a simple question - whether his comment today about the fact that Reuters has distorted something was true or false. After listening to this, I say completely authoritarianly that this agency hasn't distorted anything at all. That statement was made exactly as it was interpreted in the media, and that is why I find the situation serious, and that is why I share Mr Kalousek's view that this is an absolutely crucial point that needs to be set straight. Each of us can say something and then say that he said something different, but there it is not in quotes black and white, but you can each hear it with your own ears.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u71	I am just pointing out that we are not at the point of explanation of Minister Stropnický's statement, but we are at the point of changing the Kyoto Protocol and we should stick to the subject. Mr Stanjura with a de facto, then Mr Blažek with a de facto and then two more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u72	I beg you, Mr President, to be just as strict with all of you, because this debate has been initiated here by Mr Komárek and I want to respond to him, so I will not follow the Kyoto Protocol either. I think it's basically funny when someone changes their profession and changes their perspective. I like it when a former journalist and commentator becomes a politician and says: these are the manipulations of the journalists and the press. If we were the ones who were never journalists, journalists would defend themselves that it isn't true and that politicians are just making it up. And it's kind of nice to have their ex-colleague say it, who just exposed them like that. But if that's true and Minister Stropnický has the same opinion as we do, then we could have had that point done by 16.02. At 16.00 he would start, he would say "I agree to have NATO base placed in the Czech Republic" and we would vote in favour and we could walk away from it. That's all. You just couldn't discuss it, you're making excuses for the press and distortion. Please, it's your right. You, who worked in the media, certainly have more experience with this than we do, who are just consumers of the media, how the possible manipulation and meanings have shifted. I don't know anything about it. Like my colleague Martin Novotný, I played it on those servers. Well, I don't know if the speech is edited or not. But if the Minister said, "It wasn't like that, I think the same thing as you," we adopted the resolution, and we were way past it. That's how you fight it and blame it all on the press. Pretty popular discipline, but until a year or two ago, you'd have painted us for what we did in the House of Journalists and Media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u73	Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u74	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have started this debate today with the unsuspecting nature of the cradles and streams of the debate today. But I would like to say, in the beginning, there was a word, as it is somewhere wisely written, and at the beginning of today's debate, there was a very stupid sentence, or a few words from our Minister of Defence. The words explained - that's a factual response to what was here. [[note from the diaper]] If others can do it, I can do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u75	I'm not taking your word for it, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u76	I know. I respond to a colleague here, through you, of course, unlike my colleague. Basically, there's another member of the government coalition who's going to announce to the whole world that our defenses are in a crappy state. I don't know if I'm on the right floor of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I'm going back to that Donetsk again. If they're listening to this, they're ready to go. There's nothing stopping them here. We have the Secretary of Defense of Soviet Lieutenant Martin Stropnický, and now you're telling us how he explained something here, but a few hours later the Prime Minister distanced himself from those words. If I translate it freely, he didn't accept the interpretation that it was a mistake. Just as it was not accepted abroad, Reuters and Russian servers for example. There you will read, as they are already extolling, as they notice, how we are basically in this conflict, which is not ours, it means the conflict of the American-Russian, but which is ours, because we are part of NATO, as we actually say: Američan do not care, we may be here for everyone and we have an excellent defense minister and excellent members of parliament who say "when you come, we are not able to defend ourselves."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u77	Mr Laudát with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About that pungent remark about the truth. Don't be mad at me. I'm gonna watch the media in the morning, and the first thing I hear, the gentleman presiding over the pension board, he's gonna start unloading right there -- a new approach, now we've got a coalition. You weren't on the bezděkový Commission? You weren't invited here to parametric agreements? You were not called upon to approve the compact and what you served to the public. That's all I'm gonna do. Why do I have... Because you manipulate and move and manipulate the truth very often and unpleasantly. But to what is absolutely essential. I no longer consider Mr. Stropnický performance to be a coincidence. I heard Mr. Babiš here last week yelling that after 1989, everything got stolen. And it's just like he's really starting to get on the edge. Does that mean you don't want to respect developments after 1989? You don't want to respect the basic principles that we applied to in 1989 and subsequently? Don't be angry with us, but we just wanted the parliament to correct this embarrassing lapsus minister with some really constructive consensual resolution. Well, I don't know if it's a shame or not. We have no means other than parliamentary land... we have no other means. I don't know. And if the Secretary of Defense was a guy, it would have been settled a long time ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u79	Mr. Monsieur Opálka. No. Mr. Opálka doesn't report. Mr Sklenák insists on his point of view? It's not like that. Neither is Mr Petrů. Mrs Hnyková. I have you there, Mr. Ambassador, but you're at the end of a long line of factual remarks that have just been cut short here because we've deleted three. But still, Mrs Hnyková. Pan will be a place for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u80	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that I am very sad about what is going on here. I think some Members have forgotten the people who are behind the walls of this Chamber of Deputies. Please, let's get back to work. We could have done a lot of work today and done a lot of things for the ordinary people who live with us than the squabbling and obstructions that are going on here. Please remember these people and let's get back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u81	Mr. Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see the long line has been cut short. I will only allow you to respond to Mr Stanjura, who said unfortunately not exactly that I have taken a debate from the Kyoto Protocol. I merely took the liberty of correcting the error of Mr Kalousek's statement that we are discussing an important law, which he said. It's not true, we're only talking about the Minister of Defence's statement. And I would now, when Mr Stanjura spoke of my media past, use this as a reference to the proposal of members of the YES who want a certain order to be introduced into the debate in Parliament, as is the case in most of the parliaments of the developed world. Please, it's a media trailer. Thank you and I assume that Mr Kalousek will correct his false claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u83	Yes. With Mr Kalousek in fact. Mr Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u84	Thank you for the floor. So the fact is, I really misjudged that I wanted to say the statement. Maybe I told the law, I don't even realize it. And in the sense of the dramatic act of a bad journalist who has become a bad politician, I would like to say that in a way I have appealed to the law, to some law of morality, to some law that we are referring to here, which I assume to Mr Komárek is completely foreign. Mrs Hnyková, I'd say we've been thinking about these ordinary people from morning to night, they've elected us. And our voters, they really don't care if a bear in the east grinds a tooth and claw. Indeed not! And that has to do with the Minister of Defence's statement, and that has to do with our concern. That's why we think of those voters who are ordinary people like us. We don't want to be enslaved again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u85	Mr Stanjura, then Mr Blažek, Mr Komárek. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u86	I confess that I am not as medially skilled as Mr Komárek, so I do not have any anonies about what the YES movement says. The way I translate your words is that if you use the veto law, it's okay if the opposition uses them, it spoils the good work. Let's try it. Your club president apologized to everyone else today for screwing up the place and bringing chaos into what we're discussing today. I don't know if you were here or not. Then don't blame us. And if the rules -- we're gonna bring this debate to the committee -- if you break them yourself and then you say, "we're gonna make it clear" -- well, don't be surprised that it doesn't feel right. Be as strict with each other as you are with us. We're trying to be as hard on you as we are on ourselves. Whether we're good or bad is different. But in your submission, when it's your proposal, it's okay, we work etc. If the opposition suggests it, we're taking you away from the job. I was explaining to you how we could have dealt with that point very quickly today. You used - and we said we fully respected it - the right to object to the inclusion of the point, or that there was no vote on it, which means that you weren't sure about the majority. If you were sure most of the time, you wouldn't have had to object. But I don't have to train you in that. You've understood the rules very well, you're just pretending in public that you haven't. But I think you learned it very quickly. Let's remember, today we saw, and I've had that number for about two months -- we're gonna reduce the number of Vice-Presidents. Well, you dropped it from 80 to 90. A really nice cut! Then your President - I apologize - will say to the MP, a longtime Social Democrat, "We don't do that, it's the traditional parties." Well, that's the side you've been in for years. You were even in the coalition with us if I have good information, so you ruled in conjunction with two traditional political parties in the Czech Republic, ČSSD and ODS for years. So don't act like you're a rookie in politics who's fighting with the traditional parties now. So we respect that you learned it very quickly. [[Time limit alert.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for exceeding the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u87	Mr. Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I know we're wasting our time right now. Because we all know this game is gonna keep playing, so I'm gonna use that time. Since I was somewhat offended by Mr. Kalousek, I'll say something similar. I was trying to be a good journalist, now I'm trying to be a good politician. I think even Mr Kalousek tried to be a good politician, and it is high time he tried to be a good journalist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u89	I will, of course, give the floor to Mr Kalousek. I'm just gonna ask, do you want a proper one, or is that real enough?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u90	Really, it's only because I've been appointed. I really have no idea what my previous speaker is talking about. I was talking about a bad journalist who became a bad politician. Why does that apply to himself? Does anyone know? [[Laughter.]] I didn't name him. I guess he understands that, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u91	Mr Gabal, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u92	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President, dear ministers. Because I think this debate is moving somewhere where we wouldn't like to see it, so I'd like to suggest a certain maneuver. If this would satisfy the opposition, I will propose an appropriate item for next week's meeting on the Defence Committee. And if the Defence Committee can agree on an opinion on that statement, we will inform the House and the House can take a position on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u93	Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u94	I thank you, Mr Gabal, through the President. It was, and it certainly was, a good will, but it didn't. What the Minister of Defence has said or has not declared and claims to have been misinterpreted by Reuters is to such an extent alarming that it is necessary to adopt a resolution on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies - and yet this week, not next week on the floor of the committee. And if you feel like we're doing obstructions, colleagues, I'll confess. Yes, we do. And we will do them until you understand that the point is so important that it must be discussed and voted on by the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u95	President Stanjura with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u96	So the good news is, so far, obstruction is being done by one side, but maybe we'll join in, and we'll do two sides. Let's see what happens. But today, I think the Secretary of Defense was talking about it, who said that the Russian party is also leading a disinformation contest about the interpretation of events. Really, colleagues, I suggest we get it printed for you, take a look at the Russian servers. I know it's already in your hands. [[unintelligible]] But this is the result of the statement of the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic. So look how excited Russian official servers are - the Čech are with us against the bad America. And if that's how we want to live, then we don't. We say, if we even agree with the Secretary of Defense, let's be clear that it isn't, and those Russian servers will have to write that it isn't. That's all we're discussing. [[A note from the bench.]] I'll pretend I didn't hear that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u97	Well, I didn't hear anything, but if you heard something you shouldn't have heard, then please don't repeat it. [[Loud laughter and applause.]] Is that a fact, Mr. Ambassador, or a proper one? Procedurally. Excellent. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u98	I don't want to promise not to hear what I'm not supposed to hear. Now please, colleagues, really know that we are doing this in good faith because we consider this to be extremely important and we will not stop considering it to be extremely important. So this is the last honest procedural proposal. Let's stop tonight. Let's discuss that point tomorrow morning, which we still have to discuss, and then everything will go smoothly. My proposal is to suspend by tomorrow at nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u99	I am afraid we have already voted on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u100	By 9:02 p.m., we haven't voted on that yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u101	9.02, I will, of course, let this vote without debate, because it is procedural. I'm gonna sign you all out, please, for a new registration. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to the suspension of the meeting by 9:02 a.m. tomorrow. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 112, registered 116, for 26, versus 58. This proposal has not been adopted. Is that a factual point, Mr. Ambassador? Please, you have the floor. With a factual remark, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to one sentence of Mr Komárek's fellow Member. It's not a fucking game for us! First of all. And second, towards KDU-ČSL. I would really appeal to your conscience, to your morale. You really want a second light on February 1948?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u103	Yes, I have Mr Kalousek's application now. I just, if you don't mind, Mr. Ambassador, I think we've all understood that this is a very serious issue, but the first moment that we can place this point is tomorrow at 9 o'clock, so maybe if it's worth discussing the international treaties and trying to do it tomorrow. But, of course, I cannot stop you from reading the Charter of Rights and Freedoms or the Minister from speaking. So the Minister has the floor, and then I'm registering you as registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I had known what all this Kyoto would have done, I would not have come here, and I would have been very careful next time. [[with a smile]] [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] As soon as there's a Japanese title in the contract, I'm just not doing it, I'll leave it to someone else. But I don't want to downplay this debate. I'd like to come back because I'm here for Kyoto - I'm gonna blame myself for that for a long time... By your means, Mr President, I would also like to reply to my colleague Stanjur. Thanks again for really constructive questions on the subject. And I would like to be able to leave this question and poor Kyoto and have some more fun, but that is why I consider it an internal debt to answer that. The new commitments were made by a total of 35 states, of which actually 27 European Union countries. At this point, it's really like I said. This means at a time when the Czech Republic - now purely hypothetically - would not ratify the protocol and the treaty, so yes, it is likely that the universe will not collapse today or tomorrow, or even perhaps even this planet, but simply the Czech Republic will not meet the commitments it has made in the treaties. I think it's a thing that just doesn't feel right. And then there is another aspect, and I think it is interesting and important for Czech companies, that at that time Czech companies could not continue to participate in the so-called. Joint implementation project projects, and I know what they are, I have dealt with one of them in my previous profession, and these are projects that allow companies to actually save emission allowances by alternative methods. That means, that would be a certain clear loss, a clear negative effect compared to that. But again, if I had seen any risk that this treaty would bring a new commitment, Mr colleague - through you, Mr President - I would never have dared to do such a thing. And I can assure you that the Minister of Industry and other people would be there, and I would convince you that this is based on expert arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u105	I thank the Minister for his performance. Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that it seems a little unfair to the Minister of the Environment to hold him prisoner by some necessary interpretations of constitutional order, which can be quoted equally well in the agreement between the Czech Republic and Bulgaria on criminal offences, because we are clearly not running out. So I would like to express my opinion that we should now vote on the amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, and if any of you would not want to end today's negotiations and we will continue, I will, with my opinion on constitutional order, take the next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-004-036.u107	Thank you to President Kalousek. We are still in the general debate. I'm asking who's applying because I don't have an application. Because no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if the Minister is interested in the final word. It's not like that. We shall proceed to the vote on the resolution proposed by the Foreign Committee. Is he interested in repeating it? I don't think so, it's all in your documents. I therefore ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution. We will vote on this in the resolution number 113, which I will launch, and I ask who is in favour of this motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. Of the 118 present, it was for 107, against 5. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you to Minister Richard Brabco, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 36. According to the approved agenda, we will address item 30. That's what it is.
