ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u1	27. Draft by Members Miroslav Grebeníček, Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, Marta Semelová and Kateřina Konečná to the Act amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the Amendment and Amendment of Other Acts (the Higher Education Act), as amended (the House Press 60/ - First Reading) This is Mrs Marie Benešová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to question the vote, but I voted against the 119 vote, and I have a vote in favour of high school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u3	So only for the log. Thank you. Then we can continue. We will deal with this press. I ask that Mr Miroslav Grebeníček present the bill as the appellant, while I also ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr František Vácha to take his place at the rapporteur's table. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of scholarships is regulated by university students, and you probably know this in your majority, in general Section 91 of Act No.111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education and on the amendment and addition of other laws as amended. Currently valid regulation of the said § 91 of Act No. 111/1998 Coll. includes the possibility of granting several types of scholarships. The competence to grant scholarships to students is conferred on universities or faculties that follow the internal regulations of a specific university according to the scholarship rules. The competence to grant scholarships is also entrusted to the Ministry itself, which can admit them according to programmes declared by the Minister, taking into account the obligations of international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. The Ministry can also grant these scholarships to citizens of the Czech Republic studying at universities abroad. [[10.10 hours]] For the need to amend the law, so-called. Social scholarship. Here the amount of the scholarship is defined directly by Act No. 111/1998 Coll. only in the case referred to in § 91 (1) (a) (ii) Article 4 (1) (a) d), i.e. in the case of the student's difficult social situation. The law states that a scholarship under paragraph 1 of this Article shall be subject to the following conditions: Article 4 (1) (a) (d) it shall also be granted to students who are entitled to child allowance under special legislation, unless the applicable income in the family insured for child allowance does not exceed the product of the minimum amount of the family life and the coefficient of 1,5. A scholarship of CZK 1,220 is awarded for a standard study period of ten months in the academic year. This currently valid regulation of the so-called social scholarship fixed and limited amount of CZK 1 620, applied since 2006 after the amendment of Act No. 552/2005 Sb., was for the first time firmly incorporated into Act No. 111/1998 Coll. As a result of the adoption of Act No. 261/2007 Sb. of 19 September 2007 on the stabilisation of public budgets. It is clear that from 2007 to 2013, inflation pressures and the constant increase in cost of living meant an ever-increasing burden for socially weak students and their families, the purchasing power in the law fixed amounts of CZK 1,620 decreased significantly by 2013. The inflation rate according to the Czech Statistical Office reached 19.3% in total between 2006 and 2012. For 2013, the Ministry of Finance gave an estimate of inflation rate of 2.1 %. This means that it would be necessary to increase this amount by CZK 347 to CZK 1,967. The current practice, when a fixed amount is laid down in the law, from which universities are then based, is evidently harmed by university students. Since it cannot be considered that the amendment of the law would be carried out on an annual basis with regard to inflation and the increase in living costs, it would be appropriate to amend a law that would anchor the mechanism of valorisation in the law of that basis on an annual basis according to inflation. In view of the difficult situation of socially weak families and students from these families, it is recommended to amend Section 91 of Law No. 111/1998 Coll., as regards the scholarship in the case of a burdened social situation of the student, so that the basis was CZK 2,100 with the possibility of higher and higher higher universities, and directly in the law, a valuation of the base was provided for each year on 1 January of the following year by the amount declared by the Ministry, which would compensate and eliminate the effect of the inflation rate expressed as an increase in the average annual index of consumer prices. Ladies and gentlemen, Rusnokův's government, in its opinion, has refused to valorise social scholarships on the inflation and growth of students' life costs, estimates that increasing this scholarship by CZK 480 could raise annual costs by approximately 35 million. Crowns. The resources necessary to cover valorisation would have required the need to increase the expenditure circuit of the university in budget chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. However, the government's argument about the alleged increase in annual costs needs to be reviewed in a qualified manner, and we are surprised to find that the 35 mil needed. is not a de facto increase but a mere incomplete return to the budgetary level five years ago. According to data from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in 2010, 86 miles were budgeted on social scholarships from public universities. CZK and students of private universities over 4 miles. CZK, a total of 90 miles. Crowns. Since then, there has been a sharp reduction in the payout of these scholarships from 90 miles. Kroner to just 50,5 miles. CZK, I'm talking about 2013, it's a decline of more than 45 percent. With this incredibly reduced amount, i.e. just 50,5 million, the government calculated for 2014. I don't have to stress how inflation and the growth in student life costs developed, nor do I have to remind you that, since 2007, when the social scholarship was fixed, the range of families has spread significantly to the poverty line and social emergency situation. The various fees introduced by universities and the cost of study also increased and increased. The proposed proposal for valorisation of the years of the outstanding amount of the social scholarship of CZK 480, which, according to Rusnokův's government's estimate, requires CZK 35 million. CZK, therefore, does not mean an increase compared to 2010 only. He's still five miles away. CZK of expenditure required below before budgeting for this purpose was still in 2010. I could also mention other facts that show that the Ministry and previous governments have been hard-save not only on socially weak students. According to the Ministry of Education's 2014 budget heading, a total of 1 billion are earmarked. and 92 miles. - I repeat, one billion. and 92 miles. - for scholarships for students in doctoral study programmes, but only 50,5 miles. CZK for social scholarships for students of Bachelor's and Master's programmes, including public and private universities, i.e. almost twenty-two times less. It is quite clear from the figures that previous governments and ministers of education since 2007 did not grossly fulfil the obligation for students of Bachelor's and Master's degree programmes to valorize social scholarships. These governments and the ministry have even effectively reduced the cost of social scholarships. It is therefore under the responsibility of the current government and the responsibility of the Chamber of Deputies to reverse this, in my view, unsustainable and unjustifiable, procedure. Rusnokův's government's opinion claims that a social scholarship is only one of the tools for strengthening students' income from families with the lowest incomes and that the regulation should address the government amendment to the Higher Education Act. Such an amendment has been being prepared for years. I know something about it, and I can therefore say that the Ministry did not count on any adjustment of the amount of social scholarship, regardless of the urgent need in it. For years there has been talk in the professional public that social barriers to accessing education have been created in Czech education and that this is bad. However, it has not moved any of the previous governments to, at least to the extent necessary, valorize the social scholarships of university students, let alone increase them and create conditions that would provide equal opportunities for access to schools and for the study of those with social disabilities themselves. In view of the situation, I believe that action must be taken without undue delay. Whoever does not want to valorize social scholarships of Bachelor's and Master's degree programs will, of course, seek all sorts of excuses. But I want to believe that such in this new composition of the House will not be a more significant group. With all urgency, I call on the present: support the proposed proposal for valorisation of the social scholarship and encourage it to come into effect as soon as possible without unnecessary delay. [[10.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to promoting and ensuring the access of students from socially weak families to higher education, it is therefore urgently necessary to adapt the amendment to Section 91 of the Higher Education Act in the shortest possible time as regards the scholarship under paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3, i.e. to amend the amount in the case of the student's difficult social situation by increasing the amount of CZK 1,620 to CZK 2,100. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u5	I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs Miroslav Grebeníčk. I'm gonna read an apology. Mr Josef Hájek apologizes from the meeting for family reasons, starting at 16 o'clock. I therefore now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr František Vácha to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the House Press 60 performance, which deals with increasing social scholarships for students. This is Section 91 (2) of the EEA Agreement. 3, when applicants propose to increase the scholarship for the socially weak from CZK 1,620 to CZK 2,100. This proposal is almost identical to the press of the 1115 last term, which was rejected. Unlike printing 1115 in this proposal, there is a change that the coefficient, which was in printing 1115 as 2, is changed to 1,5, which makes it the same number of beneficiaries as so far, i.e. only the amount shall be increased. The explanatory memorandum, as the government says, lacks an estimate of costs. I don't understand why. When I was counting, in my opinion, the increased costs would be around 16 miles. Crowns. The government expressed its opposition to this proposal in resignation. He's got a few arguments. The first argument that it is the same print with the printing 1115. Another argument - government estimate - increase by 35 million. Crowns. Like I said, I don't think that's entirely true. And another argument is that the Ministry of Education does not have budget appropriations planned, which I think is not an entirely appropriate argument. Another argument is that the social issue is dealt with by other laws - Act 117 on social support, 111/2006 on material distress. However, these laws do not address the increased costs of parents to study their children at university. So I would like to join the general debate and suggest that this press be ordered by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. And although the proposal is made by the party making it, and what it has demonstrated around the bill of illustration, I recommend to the House that it proceed to the second reading. And here I am reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. And I'm opening up a debate. The rapporteur takes precedence, so you will be the first to be duly logged in over others with priority rights. Mr rapporteur, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u8	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, our legal order guarantees free education, which is not entirely true, because we all know that nothing is free. Some of us have children in college, and we know that having a child in college means increasing the cost of living during our studies. Mostly it's out of residence, you have to buy teaching aids, books, students travel. We know from practice that we give these kids a few thousand a month. When I focus on the explanatory report, the explanatory note seems to me, at least as weak as it was presented to us. If a student brings me this as a seminary job, I'll just throw him out. Of course, there is no estimate of increased costs. When you look at how many social scholarships were paid in 2012, it was only 54 miles. Crowns. Only 54 miles. Crowns. I know from practice that there are roughly a few students in our faculty - three or four students receiving a social scholarship. That means, an ordinary three-member, maybe the reasoning is wrong, you'll get an increase of some 16 million crowns. I believe that the Ministry of Education is capable of 16 million. CZK in your budget to find. Next thing I know, in the explanatory memorandum, the explanatory note was basically written out of proposal 1115. The petitioners didn't give themselves any trouble to estimate the budget or the cost of 2013, which I think they could have done with the job. Another misleading thing there is data on the increase in poverty. Yes, of course, from the left side of the spectrum, we hear arguments today and daily about how our republic is sinking into poverty. The government's report on press 1115 states that the number of families below the poverty line decreased by around 30 000 between 2012 and 2013. And, of course, it is obvious that the amount of money we pay on these social scholarships is also decreasing. So I would ask my fellow Communist party to prepare the explanatory report better next time, so that it doesn't just look like a media event, that they want to increase their credit, but that they really want to help those students. Now, I have an analysis of the Government's position prepared, but I have spoken with the Minister, and the Government will support this proposal, and even if it is 35 million, it will find money in its budget. However, I would like to stop at the argument that social problems are addressed by Law 117/1995 and 111/2006. That's not true. The increased cost of university studies does not address these laws. I took the job and contacted the director of the employment office in České Budějovice and I can tell you that parents of studying children, respectively. an elderly child does not receive social benefits due to university studies, which means that it follows from the above that the family is not normally supported because of the increased costs of parents related to the study of children in higher education. If the student left the nest and applied elsewhere for a permanent stay, he may receive social support on a monthly basis, possibly support in material distress, but certainly the amount he will receive will not cover his cost of university studies. Another example can be the example of a worker who goes to work in exchange to the belt, earns 12,000 clean, is a single child, has two children at home, one wants to send to college, the other goes to high school. Thus, in the current system, this tax payer will not send his child to college. He won't send him because he can't do it. Let's hope we approve an increase in these social scholarships to 2,100, but I'm afraid this amount won't help her study the kid in college. [[10.30 hours]] I think we should think about some form of loans. When the entire House, apart from those ranks, rejects tuition, at least over some form of loans, so that children from such families can also study college. [[Right]] A loan doesn't have to mean that a student would pay it off after graduating from college. It can be set up so that when a college student successfully graduates, the loan is pardoned. Because take the single-parent example - she can't send her kid to college, but some rich parents' son has been studying at college for three years, we're paying him to study from her taxes, and in three years, maybe he won't even make a graduate and go home. I don't know if you know how much a college student costs a year our state budget. Try to do the math. I'm totally afraid to say it here, so do the math. In conclusion, I would like to sum up: the social scholarship is increasing from 1,600 to 2,100, the number of beneficiaries is not increasing. According to my calculation, the increased entitlement to the state budget will be approximately 16 miles. So the result of this law would be to support those who need it and who really deserve it, which they proved by making, despite the adversity of fate, the financial distress of their parents, decide to take their fate into their own hands, increase their qualifications by studying at university and thus contribute their talents to the development of our society. I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u9	I thank Mr František Vách for his speech. The Minister of Education Marcel Chládek will speak in the general debate with priority rights, and then we will go according to proper applications. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Allow me to speak from the position of Minister of Education, because the previous management of the Ministry of Education did not recommend agreeing to this draft law. I would like to say that my opinion is the opposite. On the contrary, I recommend that you give my consent. I think it would also be more logical at second reading if it were adapted to the form of social scholarships being dealt with by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And one small comment about the speaker. Tuition fees and loans, how they work or don't work. Just look into the United States of America, where students are astronomically indebted for several generations in advance. On the other hand, the variant of the loan is very interesting, which does not have to be returned. If there was a bank like that here, if you'd just let me know, I'd like to borrow it. And only at the end of the alert. The teddy bear's still laying there, and he's already polished the paint right here on your desk. [[on the speaker's counter]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u11	Okay. Thank you, Minister. Now, therefore, with the rapporteur's factual remark, he has priority rights, so he can, of course, speak at any time. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u12	Obviously, Minister through the President, we would not have found a bank to forgive this loan, but I will say so. When we go to college 21 billion a year, we have about 300 thousand. students, if you divide it, one student costs us 70 miles a year. Crowns. Seventy million crowns from the state budget! I'm not an economist. I could imagine that... I know it's simplified. The Emeritus Rectors over there are cheating. I know it's simplified, but I can imagine that we should somehow prevent students who study college just because they want to prolong their youth, and then they don't graduate, in some way in this study.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u13	Thank you for keeping time. With a factual remark, Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u14	Thank you. Hello. I don't want us to learn to divide large numbers here, but we also need to think about the fact that these funds that go to the Ministry of Education, of course, are also going to science and that this is a very, very simplified and distorted view. brát's think of this as really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really simplified. If I may, one question is whether the law that is being put forward here replaces the inability to manage schools, universities, because basically today, both the rector and dean have tools and resources to treat these social cases. That basically works. The source is a scholarship fund from which we can provide and provide funding for students in case of a real social emergency. The second thing is some shyness on the part of students who are simply ashamed of their situation and, of course, are not willing to ask for it. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u15	I thank Mr Karel Rais for his factual remark and respect for his time. Mrs Marta Semelová, Mrs Anna Putnová, will now be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u16	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the press presented aims to address the increase in the financial support of students from a socially weak family environment, thereby ensuring them access to higher education. The amount of the social scholarship, i.e. the support of the student in the event of a difficult social situation, is, as has already been said, increased from CZK 1,620 to CZK 2,100. I'd just like to make a comment here about the loan that we've been talking about. According to international experience, it is precisely loans for higher education that discourage many students who are aware of the uncertainty that they are aware of the dangers of debt at a time when they are to start families, and ultimately this is only beneficial for monetary institutions. It's just a loan note. The cost of higher education is very high for many families, and from year to year, together with other expenditures continue to increase. While in 2004, the study of one child at a public college was about 3.5 thousand. A month, today it's an average of 9,000. Crowns and private, of course, more. For illustration: the tracks are from 2,000. after an amount exceeding 5 000. Crowns. Rent for an apartment, if the student does not live at his parents' place of residence, varies according to his location, size, equipment and, of course, how many people live there. It could be from 2,000. CZK for the extra-Prague apartment, which is shared by more students, up to tens of thousands per apartment in Prague. The rental, i.e. living in your own room in a foreign apartment, prices are about 3.5 thousand. Crowns. Dining in the mensa around 3,000. A month's worth of crowns. Furthermore, textbooks, scripts, aids, costs of compulsory excursions and practice, transport - all this means an unbearable financial burden for a large part of the families of students, which will discourage some students, albeit talented, from studying already in advance, others are forced to discontinue or terminate their studies. [[10.40 hours]] There is also an increase in the number of those who can afford to study later when they earn, which means remotely while working, if they get a job. Just a reminder, there is record unemployment in the Czech Republic, when there is over 800 thousand without work. registered or unregistered people at employment offices. Education is a priority for every government, because the Czech Republic needs citizens with the highest possible education, quality education without a doubt. The economic situation of families is also one of the main reasons why most students look for various jobs. The survey shows that 75 percent of students work during their studies. Less than half said that even so, their financial possibilities to cover the costs associated with the study are not enough. I have no objection to the student giving part of his free time to the brigades, preferably if it is related to the field of his education. They can thus gain practice and increase their chances on the labour market. But most students make extra money not only outside the field, let's say, but more importantly, not only in their spare time, but also at a time when they should be at lectures, seminars, exercises and other student activities. This means that it is at the expense of their studies, while it is clear that they are variously challenging disciplines, some easier, some more difficult. In any case, however, it should be serious to acquire higher education qualifications, not through different in certain circles of popular hopkurs, activities, as they say, full-time, not just for students who have enough money to do so. In addition to these reasons, other contexts should also be seen. One of them is that job offers for students, and not just for them, are declining. Another, which I consider to be serious, is the fact that it is very often a job that is black under completely non-compliance with pay conditions. Many entrepreneurs use the cheap, tax-free work of students and students to increase their profits. Study goes aside, lifestyle determines the conditions of unqualified work. We would like to prevent all this from being proposed and at the same time to create conditions for studying students regardless of the financial situation of the family, and of course we realise that the amount proposed for an increase cannot cover the cost of study, as has already been said here. For these reasons, which I have mentioned here, I would like to ask you, fellow Members, to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u17	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. Before the rapporteur's words are taken, I would also like to apologize to Mr Pavel Blažek for his health reasons and for his work obligations, Mr Josef Novotný also apologizes. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u18	I've only had a short time. I'd like to apologize. I didn't say it, I said 70 million in the previous post, that's not 70 million, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u19	Thank you. It is now Mrs Anna Putnová, who has been duly applied for. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the amendment that we have had the opportunity to get acquainted with today is something very fundamental in the life of college students, and that is their financial self-sufficiency. If we had the opportunity to work together in the school committee during the past period, you know that I was one of the strong critics who pointed out injustice, which, given the payout of social scholarships, is affecting college students. You mentioned the coefficient to which college students are, I can say, affected by the fact that they receive a rate of 1.5 social scholarships, while social welfare claims are regulated by a factor of 2.4 in other areas. It follows that only students who come from really very weak social conditions reach social benefits. I'm figuratively saying you have to be a two-way orphan to get a social scholarship. I am sorry that the petitioners went the easiest way and only increased their entitlement to a social scholarship in terms of finance, but did not reach the coefficients. In the last parliamentary term, you submitted the same proposal where the coefficient increased to 2. However, I would like to point out that this is only a partial part of the problem. That we meet on the one hand with very harsh conditions for the payment of social scholarships, for which only the prom students can reach, but at the same time we need to realize where it is also being wasted. Because there is such a thing as housing support, which means that it is not based on the level of need of social facilities, but on the distance from the student's residence. And the students themselves, who are members of the College Council, admit and qualify for an estimate that overuse or abuse of these benefits account for up to one third. So we are dealing with a completely complex problem of how to allow students access to university and at the same time not to waste state resources. TOP 09 prepares the law on financial assistance to university students. It is a standard that is independent of whether or not there will be conditional participation of university students in their studies. We want college students to be able to decide on their status so that they can decide on their future, and we want to create conditions for them. I am convinced that we are the most advanced in the preparation of this law, and I am also offering cooperation to other parliamentary parties. I consider this proposal to be very profitable, and if it passes through the second reading, and it is not my doing, then the committee will be working on it as a church to make sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u21	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška has the floor, Mrs. Kateřina Konečná will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal concerns an amount that is relatively small in terms of total amounts from the budget of the Ministry of Education, and it could be said that why, therefore, should we not help socially needed students. Still, I don't think we should go this way. One of these problems is that setting up social scholarships, as chosen in the law, is done under conditions that are very different. I would like to join the characterisation that Mrs Putnová had here on the two-sided orphans, figuratively speaking. And it doesn't cover real needs. At a time when the law changes in this way and pretends to help where needed, it distracts itself from the real problems. The second reason is that universities have sufficient resources to provide scholarships. A fellow Member, Rais, drew attention here to the powers of universities to grant scholarships. In accordance with Article 58 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is necessary to lay down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7 of the Act provides that any fees levied, with the exception of paragraph 5, relating to study in a foreign language, are the income of the scholarship fund of universities and this scholarship fund of higher education cannot be used in any other way than for the payment of scholarships. [[10.50 hours]] In public universities, in particular, there are sufficient resources to help the needy students out of the resources that are being accumulated there today, from the means that are sometimes mentioned as coming from troubled students who need to be more affluent, do not pay too much attention to study, extend them. These are exactly the ones from which the fees are levied and can be used in this way. At a time when the Ministry of Education would really care about receiving social assistance to the needy students, it would be more appropriate to introduce some appropriate indicators to monitor the proportion of socially weak students and those who successfully complete their studies at university, and to include this parameter, for example, in budgetary parameters of higher education funding. Such funding parameters are used quite commonly abroad. It is precisely the indicator of the extent to which universities carry out the task of increasing education to the socially weaker classes and mediating social mobility here is an important parameter that enters into the goals that the ministries set themselves and the objectives under which universities are financed. If there is such a parameter, it is a natural feedback for universities to take advantage of these possibilities and overcome what, as has already been said, can be a certain dose of shame for some students to apply for the scholarships. Colleges themselves would be interested in finding and helping such students, and they have all the tools in their hands. Another reason, which may be even more important, is that the debate on such symbolic assistance to socially needed universities distracts attention from the fact that the real reason for social selectivity of Czech higher education does not lie in universities, does not lie in the process of admission, nor does it lie in the conditions of study. It is lower, in places where selection is carried out in secondary schools, entrance exams in secondary schools, access to secondary schools, the way in which children have the opportunity to use better or worse elementary schools to prepare for further training by the educational system. There is a need to concentrate attention in terms of social assistance, there is a thing that would have a real purpose. It's more of a distraction here. This draws attention roughly to the way in which this item was introduced into the Ministry of Education's budget. It was a pure populist password to show that the government was trying to help. However, he does so in a way that is not factually helpful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Now, Mrs Kateřina Konečná, as the last one entered in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as one of the petitioners, also to respond to the debate we have heard here. I would like - perhaps through you, Mr Vice-President - to tell my colleague Zlatušek that we are not distracting. We do not have the ambition to create a new, perfect college law that will affect us so that students who are gifted can actually study. We respond to the current situation, as it is today in the Czech Republic, to the current figures, when today 1.5 miles. We've got people on the poverty line, 600 thousand. unemployed, and I from my region, from the Moravian-Silesian Region, really talk to my parents, and they wonder which of the children is more gifted and which of the children will just go to study and which will go to work and then maybe sometime college will be able to finish. That's the reality of today. I dare not say how it is in other parts of the Republic, but I know these cases quite specifically. Nor did we have the ambition that an increase of less than 500 will solve everything. However, I am very pleased that there has not been a motion for rejection and that there is a really detailed debate where, of course, we do not oppose any further increase in the coefficient or any other solution that could help these students, we will lead where the debate belongs, that is, in the Committee on Youth, Education and Sports in this Chamber of Deputies. We will certainly not resist any further increase or any change at a time when it will be for the benefit of the students. Let me just say to the rapporteur that we did not copy the proposal. That was our proposal in the last parliamentary term. And that I'm missing the 2013 numbers... We filed the proposal in December 2013 - I'm sorry, we're not so perfect to get them out of the Ministry before the deadline and before the final account. But the proposal was ours, and I don't consider it a write-down. We just adopted a proposal that was already here. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I am very glad that this Chamber of Deputies has changed in that it does not reject this proposal and priori and that we will actually lead the debate. Believe that we really wanted to open up a problem that is troubling people, and maybe we are opening it right at a time when students are applying for college and when we should show that this state is interested in young people being able to study and that when they are gifted, the state will allow them to study. I think we can all agree that these people will eventually return to us in what they do and how good they are to our society many times more than what the state must spend on them. Of course, we do not prevent us from treating those who, as the translator has said here, study at the expense of the system, which means studying long-term and extending the study, even though it is now being treated in the law, because you can't -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u25	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I have the ambition to end this at the next point, but I'm probably going to have to give up on this ambition. So please let the man who has the floor speak in peace. Please, madam, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u26	Thank you. Because you can't study for over a year, plus free of charge. The same goes for social scholarships. I'll have the ambition to end it, too. I very much hope that we will be able to vote until 11 o'clock, and I am looking forward to discussing with you experts, either from the practice of higher education law or with students, precisely in the Committee on Education, Youth and Sports, where it certainly belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u27	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška. I'm registering other applications for actual. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u28	I'll add one more argument. At the moment when this type of scholarship increases, it really increases the state funding towards private schools, i.e. the segment that is said to be oversized. It's not significant money, but it's worth pointing out. I would formally propose rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u29	Okay. There's been a motion to dismiss. A colleague of František Laudát claimed a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u30	I'm sorry, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I see it as a problem, so I have a different attitude. After all, I would give it a chance to do second reading, only since it may need to be quite fundamentally adjusted, so I would suggest extending the deadline by 30 days for committee discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u31	Thank you. I don't see anyone else in the debate, I'm done with the debate. The draftsman's representative has announced that he is not interested in the final word, the rapporteur has. Please, rapporteur. The rapporteur's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u32	I would just like to say that it is not true that universities have enough funding for scholarships. That may be the president's view, but the dean's view may be a little different. I would recommend that we let this law go into second reading. I note that Mr Zlatuška proposes a refusal, Mr Laudát proposes a second reading and an extension of 30 days. Finally, I would like to support this proposal, and I would just like to say to all of you: the question is whether you want to help socially needy students or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u33	Thank you. That was the final word of the rapporteur. The presence has increased. We will vote on the motion to reject the motion, namely in the vote 121, which I launched, and I ask who is in favour of the rejection that was proposed in the debate. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 121, from the present 150 for 40, against 61, the proposal was not accepted. So we will consider the draft of the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, Marta Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u34	I also propose the commandment of the Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-005-027.u35	Yes, the Social Policy Committee. Anyone else? I can't see. We will vote on these two proposals In the 122 that I have begun, I ask who wants to order the motion tabled by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 122, from 152 in favour of 133, against no one, the proposal was adopted. We will now vote in the vote order number 123, which I have begun, on the commandment of the Social Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 123, from 152 in favour of 120, against 13, has also been adopted. In the debate, there was a proposal to extend the deadline for discussion by 30 days. That is what we will decide in the 124 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of extending the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 124, from 152 Members present for 134, against 1, and this proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, and has been ordered by the Committee on Social Affairs and the period for negotiations has been extended to 90 days. I thank the representatives of the petitioners, thank the rapporteur and finish point 27. The Chamber of Deputies decided on the order from 11 o'clock, so now the item is on the agenda.
