ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 170/2002 Coll., on veterans of war, as amended /house print 32/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Mr Martin Stropnický will present the proposal. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you briefly to the main objectives and changes brought about by the draft amendment to Act No. 170/202 Coll., on war veterans, as amended, which was sent to you as House press number 32. I would like to point out that the amendment proposal was presented here at first reading by my predecessor, Minister Pick, and so approved by the previous government. However, I would like to point out that I agree with this proposal and consider it both in principle and factually correct. What, in short, is the aim of this novel. First, to ensure a fair and equal standing of war veterans, then to eliminate discrimination consisting of a different length of necessary service or participation in the mission and the segregation of civil civil civil servants, and to harmonise the conditions for obtaining the status of a war veteran in order to maintain his high moral credit. A more stringent system will be set up, but a more equitable and uniform system. Eliminating discrimination and extending the scope of authorised persons as well as the remaining members of the Security Councils is another objective of this amendment. Previously, this status concerned only members of the armed forces within the meaning of Act No. 219/1999 Coll., on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic and Police of the Czech Republic. Newly, therefore, they will also be professional soldiers serving at the MO, not yet paradoxically there, and all members of the security forces, i.e. members of the Fire Rescue Corps, Customs Administration and others. Furthermore, the amendment aims to eliminate discrimination and extend the scope of authorised persons to a group of civil servants of the State. Civilian persons are exposed to a similar threat, or even loss of life as members of the armed forces, but the current legislation does not reflect this fact. It goes for example. about members of provincial reconstruction teams, i.e. professionally e. about agricultural engineers, experts in veterinary medicine etc. The law will therefore apply to civilians, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic who, as employees of the Ministry, the Security Corps or some other organizational component of the state, will perform tasks outside the territory of the Czech Republic in one of the defined missions. It is also about tightening up and unifying the conditions for obtaining the status of a war veteran so as to preserve his moral value. Tightening is a leading attempt to eliminate the current unequal condition, where for second-year veterans, i.e. foreign and domestic resistance, the condition applies at least 90 days of continuous active resistance activity. For modern-day veterans, 30 days in a place of armed conflict or a peacekeeping operation were enough. There will also be a new distinction between missions according to their hazard level. Newly, therefore, the service required continuously for at least 90 days in a foreign mission at the place of armed conflict or for a total period of at least 360 calendar days in other foreign missions, which took place on the basis of a decision of an international organisation to which the Czech Republic is a member. There will also be the introduction of an institute to eliminate the hardness of the law for exceptional cases. This is necessary when the mission is terminated prematurely by the injury of a soldier etc. Another provision is the introduction of the possibility of taking another person into a home for war veterans. The purpose is to make effective use of existing capacities in case of insufficient occupancy. Only in exceptional cases then for a temporary period. Staying in the home is provided in such a case for full payment. But in any case, a war veteran is always the priority candidate for such a post, so if necessary, the release of a veteran's bed is possible unilaterally to end this next person's stay at home. Finally, a few other changes, for example. establishing a provision under which the Ministry could in certain cases provide a war veteran with assistance in integrating into civil life or overcoming a difficult social situation. Furthermore, the consistent introduction of persons who can draw some benefits with a war veteran, i.e. until now only husband or wife, newly also kind, mate and registered partners or partners. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this is primarily about ensuring the fair standing of war veterans. We want to eliminate some form of discrimination that allows the current legal standard, and the proposed changes will bring about a fairer system, which will not only unite the conditions for the status of a war veteran, but also contribute to the preservation and deepening of his high moral credit. The draft amendment to the War Veterans Act has already been discussed by the Defence Committee at its meeting on 15 January 2014 and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve it as proposed. Let me, therefore, conclude by thanking the Members of this Committee for their helpfulness and constructive action, particularly with regard to these ethical aspects of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Defence Committee and the resolution of this committee was delivered to us as press 32/1. I ask the rapporteur of this honourable committee, Mr Václav Klučka, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my duty to introduce you to the resolution of the Defence Committee No. 11 of 15 January 2014 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 170/2002 Coll., on war veterans, as amended: After the reasons of the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic . Vlastimil Pick, Chief of General Staff of the Czech Armed Forces, Lieutenant General . Petr Pavel, M, Member Ing's intelligence report. Václav Klučka and after the debate the Committee on Defence I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve a Government Bill amending Act No.170/2002 Coll., on War Veterans, as amended, House Press 32, II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Member State The House of Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u5	I thank and open a general debate in which I have one application so far, and this is Mr Antonín Sed's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to make amendments to the amendment to the War Veterans Act at second reading. First of all, I would like to add that I have received a number of initiatives from civil organisations, e.g. from the Czechoslovak community of legionnaires, which cover war veterans and which were not invited to the commentary proceedings. I have therefore tried to prepare a comprehensive amendment to these comments, which I was about to submit in the defence committee. However, before the hearing, I learned that the comments have a number of factual errors, and for this reason I did not submit the amendment. But because I want to resolve the fundamental comment of these associations and that is to disagree with the extension of the status of a war veteran to other security forces and, above all, to civilian staff, I am making this amendment directly to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the reasons for presenting an amendment to the law, which should be maintaining the prestige and moral value of the status of a war veteran. Therefore, I do not understand that the Ministry of Defence, on the one hand, is trying to reduce the number of war veterans and, on the other hand, creates new categories that would fall under this statute. In the explanatory memorandum, it is said that for an enormous number of carriers due to financial possibilities, the resort could not ensure proper care and provide appropriate benefits for war veterans. According to the Czechoslovak community of legionnaire, who is a member of the World Federation of Veterans, this proposal does not respect the constitution and constitutional order of this world federation precisely in the extension of the statute to civilian persons. It is precisely this contradiction that is addressed by the proposed amendment, which is listed in the electronic system under number 494. Thank you for your attention and support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u7	Thank you. I will ask who else is reporting to the general debate. [[Nobody.]] I am ending the general debate. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate where I also have Mr Sed's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a detailed debate, I am merely signing up for my amendment, which you have under House document 494.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-003-004.u9	Yes, thank you. There are no other applications for a detailed debate. So that's how we used up this point. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Let's continue with point number
