ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws /German press 291/ - Second reading The Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will also present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly state and thus remind you of the so-called proper amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. The main changes which are the subject of a proper amendment to the Value Added Tax Act are related to the fight against tax evasion. First of all, it is necessary to mention the extension of the reverse charge system, or reverse charge regime, following voluntary implementation of Union law. Furthermore, amendments to the special scheme for investment gold aimed at limiting the misuse of this special scheme and the resulting tax evasion. Last but not least, it is the introduction of the so-called a control report that should enable the tax administrator to obtain early data on the basis of which tax evasion can be effectively prevented. Part of this proper amendment is also to eliminate uncertainties in the application of VAT and exemption from this tax on immovable property and the introduction of a reverse charge regime for the supply of immovable property. It is also proposed to maintain the current amount of turnover for compulsory registration of payers, i.e. CZK 1 million, and thus cancel the approved reduction of this limit to CZK 750 thousand. The effectiveness of a proper amendment to the VAT Act is proposed from 1. 1. 2015 with the exception of the provisions relating to the introduction of control reports for which effectiveness is proposed 1. 1. 2016 and with the exception of part four of this draft law, for which it is proposed for legislative technical reasons of effectiveness 31. 12. 2014. This proper amendment was discussed at first reading on 1 October 2014 at the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and ordered to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. At the same time, the deadline for committee discussions was shortened by 30 days for this proper amendment. The Committee on Budgets discussed this proper amendment on 23 October 2014 and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies adopt this correct amendment, as amended by three amendments. The Ministry of Finance agreed to these amendments. Finally, I would like to request a proper amendment to the VAT Act, and I would like to say that, in the context of a detailed debate, I will propose a reduction of the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 291/1 and 291/2. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, on the report of the Committee on Budgets. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the budget committee resolution of its 14th meeting on 23 October on the House press and the draft law that we are currently discussing. Following the opening remarks of the Deputy Minister of Finance and the rapporteur, first of all, the Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws, House press 291, approved the amendments. I will not read the amendments. They are mentioned in the resolution, which I'm sure you all have at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate which Mrs Radka Maxová was the first to sign up to. Sorry. I chose a beautiful lady, but there's a gentleman with priority rights. Mr President of the Civil Democratic Party, prosit. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when we were here at the end of September discussing a proposal for a very comprehensive change in income taxes, we pointed out that this is a relatively large change in the entire tax system and that it has no clear concept and no clear objective. And here again, we have a re-open value added tax, and the proposal that lies here is another clear proof that the government has no concept. People expect above all stability, clarity, clarity from the tax system, and instead, we are preparing, on the basis of a government proposal, the sixth amendment to tax laws in this parliamentary term. Here we have another amendment that prepares the ground for measures that complicate the life of small businessmen and businessmen even more, and that is the introduction of register cash registers, and the government is preparing the ground for it here by introducing a control report. This means that more than 250,000 VAT payers will have to start reporting to the Financial Authority each month. And that means more paperwork, more control, more distrust of citizens. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that a quarter of a million VAT payers reporting quarterly will now send sales reports every month. This concerns small companies such as grocery store, restaurant, independent architect, veterinary office, plumbing company. They're all gonna spend three and a half hours every month now, that's an estimate based on government material, by writing another unnecessary monthly report. Moreover, in this way, the cost increases for entrepreneurs, and the state imposes something on them. Again, according to government estimates, this will amount to around CZK 1.4 billion per year, which will be paid by entrepreneurs. And, of course, if the next step comes to that, which is the introduction of registration cash registers, it will mean more costs. At a press conference in this context, I recalled the words of the Bolshevik revolutionary Nikolaj Bucharin, who said that socialism, that is above all record. So here, the left-wing government is very good at showing us what it's going to do, because this is another record that's completely useless. However, we citizens' democrats, as is our custom, have tried to approach this government proposal constructively, and when this law is already open, we come up with two amendments. The first amendment, I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate, it is the House document number 1553, which proposes a reduction in the lower rate of value added tax to 10 percent, i.e. the removal of what has recently been introduced by the government coalition, the third VAT rate. We want the lower VAT rate to be at 10 percent, because the three VAT rates are complications for the system. So did the Minister of Finance. The government announces that within two or three years it only wants to introduce two rates again. We offer this solution right away in terms of economically advantageous conditions and we want to have only two rates and the lower ones were at the limit of 10 per cent. The second amendment is inserted into the system under number 1554 and in this we adjust the obligation of a monthly inspection report only for payers who have a turnover exceeding CZK 1 million per month. With this proposal, we want to protect small businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are not achieving this turnover, and we want to continue to leave them with an obligation to report it only - in quotation marks - once every quarter of a year. In our opinion, there is no reason for us to burden them with new bureaucracy and make it difficult for them to do their business. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you will carefully consider our amendments and that many of you will join them, because if we do this, we will reduce bureaucracy for businessmen, small entrepreneurs, businesses and, of course, also clarify and simplify the tax system for all citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u7	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Another with priority rights registered by the chair of the TOP 09 MEP Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past period, I have put forward and enforced some very controversial issues at that time concerning increasing the efficiency of the collection of value added tax. I'll just remind you of the most discussed of them. The question of mutual liability or the question of the list of non-payers. It was nothing that would fill me with happiness, but I presented it with a firm belief that this increase in the responsibility of those who trade among themselves, that they would also be careful who they were trading with, whether they were serious partners, that they would contribute not only to the higher efficiency of collecting VAT taxes, but also protect them from the problems that arise from secondary insolvency. In the end, he managed to enforce it. It is necessary to thank the fact that even with the agreement of the opposition at the time, and however the provisions have somehow been burdened, not as dramatically as what is being proposed now, but somehow burdened the taxpayers, so it was possible to trace from VAT collection in proportion to sales growth, that the effectiveness of VAT collection has actually increased due to these measures. In this case, however, I would like to ask the Minister politely where he sees the effect of increasing VAT collection if we significantly intensify the reporting obligation instead of quarterly monthly. [[15.30 hours]] I just don't see him there. The Minister of Finance surprised me today, he did not say so today, perhaps because he faced no criticisms, but whenever he faced criticism in the area of public budgets, regardless of whether he had spending or income, he would sooner or later end up collecting VAT and wrestling with carousel stores. In a way, I understand this because, indeed, in carousel stores, gross tax evasion is hidden not only in the territory of the Czech Republic, but throughout Europe. Unfortunately, VAT is a tax that is unreachable in the field of statistics, accounting and reporting, it is a brilliant invention. He has one small weakness - it's a gentleman's tax. The creator of this system and the legislator, who approved, assumed that no one would invent anything but the tax would pay. Unfortunately, this is not true not only in the Czech Republic, and the problem is bothering the whole European Union. But none of what the Minister is talking about is present in this proposal. There is only an unnecessary bureaucratic burden in this proposal, without any of us who have spent a lifetime struggling with tax evasion, imagining how it will be balanced. How the administrative burden will be paid. Where's the effect? I just don't see him there. I'm not saying I have to be right, but in that case, I would very much like to hear where the effect is. Why does it happen that we start taking that tax more intensively, why, on the contrary, there are things missing that I would expect there to be? I think it is appropriate in this context to say that although the Minister is constantly struggling verbally with tax evasion and amazes the public with Kobra-type media projects and talks about his struggle with carousel shops, which I fear will have absolutely zero output - and I will not blame him. I have devoted three years of intensive work to this, and of course I have not achieved any result in the agreement between the 28th and the reverse charge, and I fear that the Minister will end up exactly the same way. Except I'm not gonna say he didn't do anything for it. After a few years of hard work, it will end the same way. But even though we and the public are stunned by these messages, we should not miss the fact that since the New Year, unlike the two previous years, the efficiency of VAT collection has started to decline. Although VAT is rising compared to previous years, it is decreasing compared to sales growth. Sales are growing faster than VAT - equals, the Minister collects taxes worse and worse. That's right. I am far from submitting to cheap criticisms, but I want to criticize the fact that we are choosing tools that we are unable to explain how it will be better, except that we are going to burden someone more. I didn't read it in the material. We did not know that at the committee meeting from the responsible staff of the Ministry of Finance. I confess without torture that I can't even imagine. So I'd like to ask the Minister if he could explain to us how much more taxes we're going to collect, why we're going to collect more if we're going to make that statement once a month and not once a quarter. If he could at least say it here, declare and guarantee that it will have these results. Otherwise, of course, I cannot vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u9	Thank you to President Kalousek. Before I give the floor with priority rights to Mr. President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjur, I have my apologies. First, President Jan Hamáček apologizes for today's meeting at 16 o'clock for personal reasons. Mr Gabal also apologizes for today's meeting between 15 and 16 o'clock. And Mr. Ondřej Benešík apologizes today at 18:00. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura with priority rights, please. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would have several specific materials for the data found in the explanatory memorandum. I wonder how the processors or developers of the material came to this. We're gonna talk about the administrative burden that's gonna hit the businessman. According to the explanatory memorandum, the cost to the business sector is estimated to increase by 1.4 billion. per year, which is almost 6.5 billion in one term. And it is estimated that by having to fill out a check report that no one knows what it will look like, perhaps someone knows, but they do not want to write it in the bill that it will take 3.24 hours and that on wages per hour 197 CZK it does so in the sum when the number of payers is converted, the number of hours and the wages 197 CZK per hour 1.4 billion. First, I want to ask how the petitioners came to pay CZK 197. Whether it's wages or whether it's wages, including taxes. Because if it's including contributions, I don't believe that such an important activity, which will be so severely sanctioned, will be done by people with below-average pay. If it's without dues, then of course the number isn't relevant and we have to multiply it times 1.34. Which is 1.4 billion. I'm sure there's not a small amount. So my first specific question is, first of all, how did 3,24 hours be determined? And secondly, whether CZK 197 is an estimate of what qualified forces and whether it is including contributions or not. Then we can assess whether the estimated cost of 1.4 billion. are real, overrated or underestimated. Because, as part of the Committee on Budgets, individual Members have made various amendments, which, as we are used to, the Ministry of Finance has adopted either a negative or a positive position, so I would like to say that the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee on Budgets agree in principle with our proposals made by President Fiala. Because many of his amendments, which the Ministry of Finance expressed to my surprise a fundamental disagreement, even though he is the coalition chairman of the budget committee, are going in a similar direction. This means maintaining a quartal obligation for those who have a quartal obligation to pay VAT. So there's another limit for those who would be free from quartal filling or monthly filling, but there's also a limit set. And the same things that I personally like. They're not identical, I wouldn't be telling the truth, but there are interesting sentences here, in the explanatory report, why the Ministry of Finance is against the chairman of the budget committee's proposal. And I want to know what it's coming from because I can't tell if the information is true or not. In principle, it says here that those subjects with a quartal discharge, with a quartal obligation, this amendment will not cover a large proportion of the payers who now belong to a segment that is largely involved in the commission of tax crime. [[quotes from documents delivered]] This means that those who - here is black and white - are involved in committing tax crime to a large extent by those who have quartal fulfillment. I am unable to judge whether this is true or not, so I wonder if there is any statistics, whether it is in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice or with the Ministry of the Interior, or if it is just an argument seeking arguments against the President's proposal to the Committee on Budgets. It says here, and it may be true that if we accepted the amendment, there could be tax evasion in the order of millions of crowns. Which, of course, is true. However, when we're talking seriously about carousel stores, we're not talking about millions of losses, we're talking about billions. Some say 100 billion, some say 50, but it's in the order of billions. Then the argument that I'm saying can be true, I don't know what it's based on, whether we have any statistics, who commit tax offences, and whether they're doomed to compensate for the damage, whether we're able to recover the damage or not, whether they're entertained by property. I just don't know. [[15.40 hours]] Another specific question. I wonder if the Treasury is ready for the system. Or when it will be. The fact that it will be sent through data boxes or other forms, but always electronically in the prescribed format, which I say again, unfortunately is not in the law. I didn't understand the argument that if it's in the law, it's chaotic, and if the Treasury officials do it, it won't be chaotic. I think that's the exact opposite that some stability would benefit if it were in the law. And we wouldn't have to every time someone comes up with an idea, all those who are going to pay it - and they're hundreds of thousands of subjects, according to the explanatory statement, it's going to be about a quarter of a million subjects with quartal fulfillment, about 120,000 subjects with monthly delivery. So it's almost 370,000 payers. There's no way it's ever gonna be any different. The cost estimates in the impact for the business sector do not take into account the cost of any software. Or is it the idea of being an Excel tablet? Or a document in pdf, which will be distributed and supplemented manually? I don't think so. That it will be necessary, if accepted, to adjust economic software, and again it will be additional costs. And nobody thinks about doing them. There's no cost. Then I want to ask how the authorities will do it. Whether or not the authorities are gonna send out the check reports. By law, yes. And what it will be like to work at the moment when we know how much VAT is, in principle, acceptable to individual governments. I think every mayor who knows how the budget works and how the community works when the VAT payer is, how complicated it is. And if I imagine that there will be an additional inspection report, which will take 3.24 hours... I find that hard to believe. The time seems too short to me. But the basic question is, once a month, the state gets 370,000 reports. Probably, because it is to be simplified tax documents, it will be a list of all invoices - with the place of delivery, with the counterparty, the basis of the tax at one, the other, the third rate and plus VAT. I understand that. What's the tax administration gonna do about it? What kind of software does he have these days? If he doesn't have them, how much will be the cost to purchase them? And whether she'll be able to evaluate it at all. It says here de facto about an online solution, but it's really a big brother. We always hear we're supposed to learn in the surrounding countries. But this is where we learn in Croatia. We usually talked about looking west of us. But a glimpse of the map tells me that Croatia is not in the west direction. I don't see why not. But really, what good are the hundreds of thousands of reports gonna do every month? What format is it going to be in? Probably in some text when it's supposed to go through the data box. Because if it's not in text, then who's gonna guarantee it if it's in an Excel file, that no one's gonna touch it, that it won't overwrite any value. And then they'll be bullied by those who say, "Here's something wrong with line 30." This is really extremely low attention in the explanatory report. The proposal by the President of the Committee on Budgets to define in the law what contains control reports is reasonable. In our opinion, it is reasonable to have that limit so that we do not burden small businesses. But I'd consider the self-government that's actually going to be... When I imagine what the inspection report or the inspection report for České dráhy will look like when I buy a ticket, I get a simplified tax document. I don't know what that report's gonna look like. And how is he going to work with him, anyway? And the VAT is there without a doubt. I think these are serious questions, and I would like us to have answers to them in the second reading debate. And while it is not customary, the chairman of the budget committee has probably given up. I do not see that he has read the amendment. But his proposals - not that we supported them in a hundred percent, but many of them headed in a good direction. Unfortunately, the Treasury has done so: all or nothing. And the last question is: when the government introduced the third VAT rate, most of the House voted for it. At first it was said that it would be three items. As part of the discussion of the first VAT amendment, we added a fourth item, or you who voted in favour. And if I'm reading the amendments well, then at least the fifth and sixth items are proposed, maybe there's more of them, moving from the first reduced rate to the second reduced rate. [[There's noise in the room.]] I know you don't care. However, our words are confirmed that every time the VAT amendment is opened, there will be an attack on it, and there will be reasonable reasons why those who are at the first reduced rate will argue: We also want to be at the second reduced rate. My question is: If it passes, including those amendments, how many items will be in the second reduced rate? If someone quantified the impact, as was the case with drugs, books and substitute nutrition, because there, in the explanatory report, we had the quantification impact on the public budget, not only on the state budget, but also on the budget of regions, cities and municipalities. And if the government doesn't want to say enough? Or are we really supposed to load here every time a novel opens, more and more items at the second reduced rate? And the very last question is whether the Ministry of Finance's plan, which has been declared somewhere in the media by the Deputy Minister, is in charge that the second reduced rate is essentially a transitional measure and that it will be valid for a year or two and that it could actually be cancelled after 2016. If so, why do we bother? Why? When the law doesn't apply yet, and we're changing again what's the rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u11	Thank you to President Stanjur. [[Mr Kalousek is on his way to the microphone.]] Sorry. Now, with priority rights, the rapporteur, Mr Votava, after whom, with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I must respond to my fellow Member from the budget committee of President Stanjuru. If he was on the budget committee... [[The MP is resisting from the right side of the hall, but he can't hear what he's saying.]] Please, I don't blame you, I'm just stating! [[The speaker raised his voice.]] I'm just saying. So you would know what happened to the amendment that you were talking about here and putting it in the context of me, so you would know what was going on with this amendment. I have only adopted the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce. There's nothing wrong with that. The Chamber of Commerce came to me. Surely you yourself, through Mr President, have ever adopted an amendment from a professional organisation. I also made it clear to them that if the position on the amendment was rejected by the Ministry of Finance, I would proceed in accordance with the negative opinion. That's what happened. The amendment was simply tabled to discuss it. I've taken it up on the budget committee to make sure the Ministry of Finance's position is known. It was negative. So, in the end, this amendment did not pass. He didn't pass because he didn't fit into the Ministry of Finance concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u14	I mean, I didn't criticize the chairman of the budget committee. Then he doesn't have to defend himself. I basically complimented him. I see no problem in the fact that you have adopted the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr President, through the Vice-President. However, I would like to say from experience that if I adopt a proposal that I think is reasonable, I stand by it. But it's okay. I was talking about the content. It wasn't an attack on you or on your opinions, so I don't think you need to defend yourself. But there were specific questions. I found the argument that was against rather weak against the proposals because, in principle, every proposal was rejected by words when I paraphrase it a little bit: whoever makes such an amendment is opposed to the fight against tax crime. And I don't think it is that it cannot be so easily rejected that either I support the government's proposal and fight tax crime, and every other proposal crashes the concept and goes against it. And these were quite serious things, that maybe the quartal payers are making a big part of it, and when I hear a lot of it, I think it's mostly tax crime, so I'm just wondering if we have it based on feelings or facts. And if based on the facts, I'd like the rest of us to hear the facts. There's nothing wrong with that. There's no way I blame you for taking it or not insisting on it. I'm sorry if you understood this as an attack on you and that you had a need to defend yourself, it wasn't meant to be. Of course, it's such a cheap foul: if you were on a budget committee, you might know. [[Objection of the rapporteur off the microphone.]] I know you apologized. But the foul has been heard. But we also need to tell you when the budget committee was. During the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, I had other responsibilities. It was October 29th, which is actually last week. You need to tell the whole story. I think that in my opinion that the amendment was reasonable, it would have changed neither my participation nor my not taking part in the Committee on Budgets. Unfortunately, if it was a financial week, I probably took part, as I always do. Sometimes I apologize because, just next week, we have a big problem with the electoral committee conflicting with the Committee on Budgets, and I am a member of both. I'm either gonna cross over, but at some point, I'm not gonna be at the first one or the second one. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your warning, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u15	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u16	Before I raise a second question, I want to confirm the words of my colleague Stanjura. No one really sees this as a personal poke. We have long experience and we understand that many of our colleagues from the coalition bench government have a strong opinion, but they do not personally identify with it, and we have full understanding of it. However - I'm sorry I forgot, but I wanted to add one more question to the Minister. The first one, to remind you, is where the Minister sees the mechanism for the effect of better tax collection when the report increases from quartal to monthly. What mechanism will increase the efficiency of selection and make up for the not-so-small administrative burden for entrepreneurs and how much efficiency they see. That's the first question I'd ask if he could answer. The second question relates to the reduced rate, since we have noted in the past the Minister's statement that he intends to have only two rates again in 2016, at the latest in 2017, because everything that the Sixth Directive allows will be moved to the second one and that he intends to achieve balanced budgets in 2017. And I'm not exactly clear on the priorities right now, Minister. If you could tell us - will you insist on the two rates even if it means that you do not achieve balanced budgets, or will you not insist on achieving balanced budgets in 2017 even if something remains at the first reduced rate? Of course, we would be very interested in this political priority. What's more important to you? What promise will you make more priority, whether balanced budgets or the two rates?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u17	Thank you to President Kalousek. I do not now enter any application into the general debate. With Mrs Lorencová's point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not enough to marvel at the touching care with which most colleagues from the right spectrum of this House report on the welfare of those who trade in products such as diesel, such as fuel and other - alcohol, etc., because they will have to introduce register registers or some system in which they will have to admit it, even if it is a day, but it will only be once a month, what they trade, that is to say, the income of what they get into the store and the result of what they trade. The touching care surprises me, or maybe it does not surprise me, the more so is that in fact the system to be implemented, even if it is self-expensive, will never achieve a fraction of what the citizens of this country have lost because of the laws adopted by previous governments, the laws that have worked here for many years, and we, as ordinary taxpayers, have paid taxes that have not gone to the state register because of these laws, where they should have gone and where we paid them in good faith, but went into the pockets of private entrepreneurs. This system, which, I believe, will be able to implement it, should stop all this. And I'm afraid the touching care for the well-being of those who do business has roots right here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u19	Thank you, ma'am. I said, who else? With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u20	I'm just making a brief remark on the previous performance. With the tax needed was the last point, now we're talking about VAT. Nothing, just a heads-up. The excise duty, and we have not criticized it in any way, that an economic stability test is being introduced and the fight against tax evasion was at the very last point in the sensitive items that you mentioned. We're talking about VAT here, which, of course, is much wider than these commodities. It's just to clarify that we're past the excise duty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u21	I thank Mr Stanjur. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate and opening the debate in detail where the Minister of Finance is reporting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest we cut the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u23	Thank you, Minister. I'm registering this proposal for shortening. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Kubíček, who cancels his application. Next, Mr Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. - Excuse me, I apologize to Mr. Holečka. With priority rights, Mr President of the ODS MEP, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u24	Thank you for the floor. I am not quite sure that you should not have offered the final words after the general debate, but I want you to notice how we are discussing such an important law. We will ask questions in the general debate, zero answers, and the only answer is: I propose a shortening of the deadline. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u25	Now with priority rights, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not trained, so I thought I'd say it in the closing statement, but I'll answer Mr. Stanjur. One. We always said we wanted to collect taxes. The financial administration, which is in decomp, which has made Prague a tax haven, and those carousels, the alcohol mafia that stole 6,7 billion from us, the Ecoll case that started in 2008, stole 4.5 billion from us, so first someone has to start running it, the financial administration and the customs administration. Our citizens were robbed from 2009 to 2013 by 70 billion. That's what the numbers are for. And when I joined the Treasury Department, Mr. Kalousek's friend Knížek said he saw space in tax collection of 30 billions. That can be traced in the media. And expert studies say about carousels that there is a potential of 2.7 percent of GDP, i.e. About 100 billion. Mr. Kalousek said how he fought. I don't know how he fought. I have organized a meeting of the Ministers of Finance of Germany, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Croatia and we Čech have proposed for the first time at the Ecofin Council that Brussels should give us more opportunity to decide on carousels, because there is time involved. And we're working on it. Now I've gotten the Romanian Treasury Secretary for it. We are preparing a letter to the Commission, and we have already acted at DG's level, and I am going to see Commissioner Moscovici, and we have the support for this mainly from Austria, Slovakia, but also from others - Mr Scheuble, the German Finance Minister, has also promised support. The kobra so down, I am of course very poorly equipped, so when I joined the office on 29 January evening, so on 30th I went to Slovakia, where I met three ministers, and one was the Minister of Finance, and there I first heard the name Kobra. And what is this kobra? Nothing else, that the FAO had worked before, the Customs Financial Administration, and we finally got an appropriate cop to do it. [[16.00 hours]] There was a FIPO once. Someone canceled it. We know why. That's how the kobra works now. And, of course, tax collection is fundamentally improving. We're also strengthening the financial administration. We'll get 600 people to finally be in the field to get some authority. And as for the questions. Well, of course, Mr. Stanjura here may have mixed it up a little bit with the Croatian one. This is not Croatia. This is the electric VAT statement introduced by the Slovák since 1 January 2013. And the Slovák picked 800 miles in a year and a half. EUR more, i.e. 21,6 billion. And they got the flies. And we go there and get their experience. That's why we're gonna have the advantage of applying it, so we're not gonna have the loss of the introduction. And that's where it works. I think that all honest entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic who pay taxes welcome that and are happy to finally be in control. And those who cheat will be disabled, because taxes are supposed to be paid, we all know that. So I don't know what's wrong with that. And regarding the vows, please. I never promised a balanced budget 2017. Of course, the media always fabulous. I said that I wanted a balanced budget of 2017 and that if we did, of course, it would be good to cut the VAT that the right hand gave us - I thought the right wasn't raising taxes, but our right raised us from 10 to 15... And now we're introducing 10 percent for drugs, books, baby food, and some other little things needed for sick people. The goal is that we would like to reduce the VAT. Yes, we'd have two rates again. It's not a commitment, it's some reasoning. Let's see how we do. So there was no such promise. We're going to realize what's being tested. And on 11 November, we will renegotiate with the Minister of Finance of Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, with the Chief of Financial Administration, Customs Administration. We work together. We are finally fighting effectively against tax fraud. So I think it works fine. We only want to apply what's been invented a long time ago. And the fact that we did the analysis... Yes, we did the analysis. The numbers that are here. We've been experimenting. There is no need for software. The software users use it, so it's not a major challenge. And I think there's enough time for us to explain this to entrepreneurs on January 1, 2016. I'm sure the honest will welcome it, and they'll be glad. So it has nothing to do with the Croatian model. The Croatian model is something else. And if it's on the agenda, I'd be happy to explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u27	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority right, first President Kalousek, after him President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u28	Please forgive me, Minister, it's probably my fault that I brought so many favorite carousels and Cobra into the discussion. However, the proposal we're discussing doesn't say anything about carousels or kobra. I just wanted to demonstrate that, even if we can talk about it in media terms, the efficiency of VAT collection is getting worse for you. That's right. As opposed to us, you're investing less. Just if VAT collection is growing slower than sales, it is evident that the efficiency of selection is deteriorating. Although nominally, year on year, of course, with higher economic performance compared to last year, there is a higher VAT collection. But if VAT collection grows slower than sales growth, then efficiency simply decreases. That's right. This is not an ideological dispute. But I don't even want to have this argument here. I asked the polite question that I didn't get the answer to so that I could take a responsible vote on it. If we are obliged today - I'm sorry that I'm using the first person, I'm not an entrepreneur, but if there were small businessmen, they would say - if we are obliged to make that statement once a quarter of a year, what mechanism and in what amount of taxes will we collect more if we have to do it once a month? That's what I don't know! If we had not done this at all, I would have understood Mrs Lorencová's reminder that, at least once a month, and that may be useful. But now it's done once in a quarter of a year, and I don't know. I know exactly what it's gonna mean to that petty businessman. But I really don't know what amount, what benefit and, above all, what mechanism it will improve the efficiency of tax collection if I have to do it once a month. I confess to the ignorance that I don't know, and I want the simple answer from the Minister that we're going to choose two, five, ten billion more, because it's going to mean - a colon - and now the few sentences that I can't imagine. But the Minister, when he proposes and wants to burden the entrepreneurs, he must be aware of that, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u29	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now, excuse me, with Mrs Lorencová's factual remark, after which President Stanjura has priority rights. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at least - through Mr President for Mr Kalousek - there will be a lot more money to pay through accounts and not cash. I myself stood at the time when I was doing the report, in line with the camera, where there were dozens - and when I followed it further - hundreds of people who got their paychecks according to minimum wage, and for the rest of the payout they went to line up to some remote window and there the cashier was paying them. Only I saw hundreds in an hour, maybe two. So tell me if there's no reason for this to come to order. To put in place a system that won't allow this!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u31	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u32	I'm just trying to make sure there's no misunderstanding. It's already happened. With all due respect to Mrs Lorencová, she responded to a completely different question than I asked, and to a completely different issue than what I was talking about. I hope there's no mistake that there's been an answer to my question. I would ask the Minister if he could answer my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u34	I basically have the same request, but with another question. I asked if the 1.4 billion. costs, which according to the explanatory memorandum is estimated by the impact on the business sector each year when the hourly wage was considered, whether it was with or without contributions. Because it's either 34 percent or it's included. And that's pretty crucial. That's a hundred million dollar amount. He won't let me respond to the Minister of Finance's speech and ask what's wrong. He said you picked up from 10 to 15 and that's a mistake. I don't want to argue with that opinion, that's a legitimate political opinion. And the moment we say we didn't quite do it, and we propose from 15 to 10, it's a mistake again. I don't understand anymore. Misplaced to lift them or lower them? The government coalition says that when the opposition proposes it, it's both a mistake. It doesn't matter if they lift or lower, it's always a mistake. And we always do it right, and it doesn't matter if we're against the reduction or if we support the wrong rate that the right has introduced. And there's no dispute about that. I just want to ask what's wrong. I understand the criticism that it was a mistake from 10 to 15. Today is the second time in this parliamentary term that our proposal is on the table to correct the error. We've put one rate down, one rate down, 10 percent, and we hear it's a mistake again. I don't think logically he can pay both. He can pay either one or the other. But I'm more interested in the cost estimate, the impact on the business sector. [[16.10 hours]] And I'm not confusing the country. I was just coming out of the explanatory memorandum. It is a material of both the Government and the Ministry of Finance, which says that this measure is a step forward in order to introduce the Croatian model either from 1 January 2016 or 2017. I didn't say this was from Croatia. But it's in your explanatory note. Again, it is not the opposition's opinion, it is the government's material, which we have in the Houses of the Press 291. And I didn't question it at all. We don't have to argue if it's Slovakia. I'm just saying that you're saying that it's a preparation for the next measure that you're inspired to take in Croatia. I don't think you're hiding it. I was just saying a universal fact. Maybe I didn't have to repeat it in the debate, but it's not the opposition's opinion. So I would like to return to the question of what my colleague Miroslav Kalousek said. There'll be 370,000 reports a month. And I'm asking how real it will be to work with them if we de facto want it online. [[A reminder from the diaper.]] It's not a last comment. The Minister says that all honest entrepreneurs welcome it and the dishonest are against it. A moment ago, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets said that he had adopted a proposal similar to that of the Civil Democrats, which was written by the Chamber of Commerce. I have assumed and believed that and I am sure that the members of the Chamber of Commerce are honest entrepreneurs who want to fight tax evasion, because the one who does not pay taxes is, of course, unfair competition. That's for sure. I don't think there's anyone here to defend those who don't pay taxes and yet have to pay them. I think we agree on that regardless of whether we're sitting on the left, right or in government or opposition benches. And they just came up with a proposal that modifies, doesn't negate, a government proposal that says let's leave a quartal, let's leave a limit so it doesn't affect the smallest of them at all. I wouldn't talk about it. The President of the Budget Committee has spoken about this. It is a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce, and I will not, nor will I say that they are representatives of dishonest entrepreneurs. I think the opposite is true. And here you see black and white, it's not that the representatives of honest businessmen say yes, let's go that way. And even the opposition doesn't question that, we're just proposing some parametric changes here. Do you really think they're designed to have a competitive advantage against the honest? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u35	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought right-wingers knew what a mistake was. I thought raising taxes for right-wingers was a mistake. If you had previously managed the financial and customs administration properly, if you might have historically taxed gambling, then perhaps VAT did not need to be increased. The lower VAT rate is correct. The VAT rate is one of the highest in Europe. We certainly, if the budget allows it, because we want to have a balanced budget, have an idea when we introduce these measures that we would like to return to a reduced VAT rate of 10 percent - the one that our right has raised. Perhaps I've already explained that it would be a good idea to cut taxes. First pick, then cut. I would just like to inform again that Croatia is online and VAT is not online. In my opinion, the VAT statement, as I asked in companies, will cost companies de facto almost nothing. A good accountant's gonna work out, he's got a year to do it, and the company can do it without cost. And the software that we de facto hover because it was introduced elsewhere, we estimate that it will cost us about CZK 250 million in order. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u37	Thank you, Minister. Now, with Mrs Fischerová's point of fact. Please, madam. - Excuse me, Minister, one more sentence, if the lady gives it to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u38	I'm sorry. I forgot to answer Mr Kalousek's monthly and quarterly VAT. Yes, we discussed this with the Chamber of Commerce for a long time. They understood based on practice that the quarter is a long period of time when someone makes carousels and starts a business and is able to liquidate it in a month, two, three. Experience is that three months for tax fraud is a long period. It's about time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u39	I thank the Minister, even if it were at least four sentences. Now, Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u40	Thank you very much for the floor. I'll be really brief. Dear colleagues, I will turn to Minister Babiš because I listened carefully to the whole debate and talked mainly about carousels, but there was also talk about self-government. Our chairman Zbyněk Stanjura spoke of it. Because I'm constantly in contact with mayors, mayors of small towns, towns, so I've been told that some cities have to buy VAT, billing, other outsourcing services, or external services. And every VAT change has a major impact not only on businesses and small businesses and those who are not worth anything, as has been said here, on the audit accounts, but also on municipalities. Please don't forget those, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u41	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. Now with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u42	I want to thank you for your answer. It is understandable, unfortunately it is based on the fact that the impostor will remain immobile and will not respond. If this is really the way the Minister replied, I have no reason not to believe him, so I dare say that the measure is completely ineffective. Today, the neurological point in the carousel chain knows that it has some quarterly space, of course it didn't fall from the sky, it exists, unfortunately it has some economic history, today it's much more sophisticated than it was in the 1990s. He pays regularly, he behaves properly, and then in one period, he makes that blow. Now he's gonna do it in one quarter, he's not gonna have the slightest problem making it in one month's space. That means the honest ones will escape easily, the dishonest ones will be burdened more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u43	Thank you to President Kalousek. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u44	Have a good evening. I would like to sign up in this form to the written amendment, which is set out in the information system under No. 1533. This is a technical modification of § 101f, where the control report is defined in the proposal by a length of five days. Change is five working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u45	I thank Mr Rais. Another duly applied for is Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u46	Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr President. I would like to sign up in this form to Amendment 1548, which contains an amendment in order to allow the VAT and food with therapeutic effect to be included in the reduced VAT rate. They are foods for special medical purposes and foods without phenylalanine. The explanatory memorandum is attached to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u47	Thank you, Mrs Maxová. Mr Petr Fiala, President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, with priority right now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u48	I am signing up here on the amendments that I have explained in detail in the general debate, one of which gives the Minister of Finance a chance to decide together on Friday that we will reduce the lower VAT rate to one value, namely 10 per cent. These are therefore amendments inserted into the system under No. 1553 and 1554.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-002-002.u49	Thank you to Chairman Fial. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will end the debate in detail. Do I ask the final words of the rapporteur or the Minister? There's no interest in final words. We will therefore vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to 48 hours, as presented by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[16.20 hours]] I am opening the vote on shortening the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours according to the petitioner's proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 4, 143 Members and Members, for 88, against 20, the proposal has been adopted. I'm ending second reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. The next item is the item
