ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u1	62. Report on the Environment of the Czech Republic in 2012 /house print 17/ I ask the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, to present this press. The rapporteur, Nekl, will settle at the rapporteur's table. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again from me on this counter. If you feel that presenting an environmental report in 2012 at the beginning of February 2014 is somewhat delayed, you will be right. Even according to the government resolution, it should be by 30 September of the following year, but given the dissolution of the House and the following steps, we are only now getting to this information. Of course, trends have some further development and we will see the state in 2013 only during this year. However, let me briefly stop at just a few basic trends in environmental development and individual components in 2012, because they, too, suggest something about what this key issue will be for us. The report contains a total of 36 key indicators, including their evaluation, and I will certainly mention your relief to only some of them, regardless of the fact that if I am not mistaken, all my colleagues and colleagues have received this message in electronic form. In the long term, emissions of pollutants to the air and total aggregated emissions of greenhouse gases are falling. However, I must point out that air quality in the Czech Republic did not improve as a whole in 2012, especially in areas with exceeded emission limits, and here we all know what is being said. It is mainly the Moravian-Silesian Region and partly the Ústí Region, or then some big cities. Repeatedly, the emission limit for suspended dust microparticles PM10 and PM2,5, benzopyrene and ground-floor ozone was exceeded. The trend of reducing water intakes and consumption continues. The most significant reduction has been made for energy purposes, which is certainly good news. The total amount of waste water discharged also decreased. The bad news is that the damage to forest vegetation does not progress as quickly as in the past, but it is still very high and unfortunately one of the highest in Europe. The total area of the agricultural soil fund decreased slowly due mainly to the increase in the size of the built-up and other areas, in particular the areas for transport. Electricity production has been growing over the long term. However, in 2012 it remained at the value of 2011. Electricity production in steam power plants is falling and, on the contrary, the importance of nuclear energy and energy from renewable sources is growing, which is certainly good news when electricity production from renewable sources increased by 11 percent between 2011 and 2012 and the production of biogas electricity contributed the largest part to this. Road freight transport with a share of 75 per cent significantly dominates the structure of transport performances. The material complexity of the economy of the Czech Republic continues to decline, which is certainly also good, but it is still below average in the European context and we are not competitive. Total waste production also decreased between 2003 and 2012. Finally, I would like to say that a number of legislative and non-legislative measures were adopted in 2012 to improve this situation. On 1 September 2012, for example, the new Air Protection Act, which introduced new tools to reduce pollution levels, came into force. In the given locations, particularly with an impaired emission situation, he defined, for example, the so-called low emission zones. The Ministry of Environment is also currently preparing a medium-term strategy for improving air quality in the Czech Republic, from which further concrete proposals will come out to improve air quality, especially in areas significantly affected. In 2013, Law No. 69/2013 Coll., on Integrated Prevention. In particular, this amendment strengthened the application of best techniques, so-called BAT, in the determination of emission limits. The Ministry also prepared a draft law approved by the Government on 4 December 2013 amending Act No. 344/1992 Coll., on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, where the main objectives are to strengthen the protection of the original fund and the soil in general. The Ministry of the Environment has also developed a waste prevention programme. And today, of course, we are facing a completely new waste law for the new period, which should significantly strengthen waste recycling, such as biological waste, but also others, so that we can get to a decent European level, because today we are definitely below the average. Projects from the Environment Operational Programme through the State Environmental Fund have certainly contributed to improving individual conditions, both in air and water protection, and in energy performance reduction, where a number of challenges have been announced within each priority axis, where hundreds of projects have been supported in a total of approximately 27 billion. CZK for this period in order to improve the individual components. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work to do in this area. I hope to be able to give you better reports in assessing the environmental situation in 2013 and the following years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u3	Thank you, Minister. The report was discussed by the Committee on the Environment, whose resolution was delivered as press 17/1. I ask the rapporteur of Mr Josef Nekl's committee to inform us about the committee's deliberations and also to present a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, the report on the state of the environment is presented in our country on the basis of Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to environmental information. At least in this basic report, the Minister commented that he had 198 pages and that each of you could study it and get acquainted with it. I just want to point out here that it is necessary to say that the 2012 report is being submitted as late as the Minister said, but I also want to stress that the report is very comprehensive and very well-worked, for which I am sure thanks to the responsible people of the Ministry of Environment. Even the number of indicators of this report is sufficient to get to know each other. The Minister spoke in detail about the demands and negatives of our environment. This report was discussed at its meeting by the Committee on the Environment and adopted the resolution that it took note of it, and it recommends the same thing to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have one application for it from Mr Zahradník, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u6	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, I would like to join the rapporteur's recognition of the carefulness with which the Ministry has drawn up the report according to the indicators. It's a statement document. I actually have two comments that I would like to present here. On the one hand, the state has transferred a number of responsibilities in the area of development planning and spatial planning. I can say from my own experience that the regional environmental reports, which I believe were issued until 2011, helped significantly to the regions and regional authorities in this activity. Then he stopped publishing the resort, probably also for financial reasons. [[10.10 hours]] We discussed this on the Committee on the Environment, and we also adopted a resolution that we are asking the Ministry to consider going back to issuing regional environmental reports for individual regions. And so that the financial intensity isn't so high, I think it would be enough to fulfill their purpose of electronic publishing. Here I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee on the Environment for approving this proposal. And I would like, Mr President, to address the Minister by your means if he could support the issue of these circuit reports. My second point is that there are no environmental data in the report in the territory which are subject to some kind of protection regime. Our state protects a relatively large area of territory in various regimes. We always thought, for example. in the South Bohemia Region it is almost 35 percent of the territory which is subject to some nature conservation regime, whether it is a national park, a protected landscape area, Natura 2000 protected territories or ecological stability territorial systems, the ÚSES. The state of nature in these territories, in my opinion, is not the content of the report. The reasoning given by the Ministry is that the data collection period in these territories is longer than the periodicity of the reporting, i.e. one year. Here I think it might be worth it, given that there are people living in those territories, there is self-government in them, and the regions also have to interfere with these territories by making some of their decisions, whether, despite other periodicity, these reports could also appear in the environmental report in the coming years, e.g. Šumava National Park, protected landscape areas etc. Otherwise, of course, there are a number of things that would be worth discussing, but I think there will certainly be time for that to happen over other reports, as the Minister mentioned. So thank you again for your attention and thank you, colleagues from the environment, for their support for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u7	I have no further application for the general debate. I will end the general debate and proceed to a detailed debate. In a detailed debate, I would like the rapporteur to refer only to the resolution that has already been loaded. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u8	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I refer to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment and the resolution accompanying this material that the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the report on the state of the environment for 2012.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-011-062.u9	Thank you. I will ask if anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate. It's not like that. I also conclude the debate in detail. The final words... The Minister is not interested, nor is the rapporteur. We will take the vote. We will vote on the resolution, as the rapporteur has read it. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 54, registered is 169, for 124, against no one. This motion for a resolution has been adopted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end with paragraph 62. Before I open paragraph 63, there is another apology, from Mr Korte for health reasons for today. Opening point
