ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-011-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member of the Government, I am opening the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 51 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Thursday, June 19th. I beg you all to log in with ID cards and report who has a replacement card or requests it to be issued. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mrs Gabriela Pecková as the verifier of this meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? He doesn't. So I'm putting it to a vote. I am opening the vote on the verifiers of the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and their designation, Mr Dolejš and Mrs Pecková. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number one, 96 Members registered, for 85, against none. I note that we have designated Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mrs Gabriela Pecková as verifiers of the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that the same Members who asked for an apology at the 10th meeting have asked for an apology to start the meeting. I won't repeat them, please. In addition to them, the President of the Chamber of Deputies Hamáček apologizes for working reasons for this afternoon's meeting and Mr Vondráček for working reasons for this afternoon's meeting. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 11th meeting, the proposal of which is in the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. The Rules of Procedure of the House may be decided only on the agenda set out in the application, therefore amendments or additions to the agenda cannot be proposed, nor may the approved agenda be extended. We will therefore now vote on the 11th meeting proposal. The Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote on the 11th session of the Chamber of Deputies. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 2, registered 113 Members, for 98, against 3, the proposal was adopted. Is Mr Jandák reporting with a factual remark? [[He's not reporting.]] No, it's okay. So we're going to approach the only item on the show that's
