ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the Amendment and Amendment of Other Acts (the Higher Education Act), as amended (the House Press 92/ - First Reading) This item has been interrupted in the general debate. I have Mr Grebeníček and Mrs Putnová's applications here. So I ask Mr Grebeníček to take the floor, and I ask the lady to prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the German satirist and aphorist Christoph Lichtenberg wrote the following in his time: "Great people also make mistakes. And some of them so often that one is almost tempted to consider them small." What can I say? Perhaps only that Miloš Zeman was elected President of the Czech Republic in direct elections, but the constitutional definition of his position and powers did not change. He is therefore obliged to respect this condition and to perform his duties within a given constitutional framework. However, some of his actions raise some doubts as to whether he is being overly self-centered and does not want to adjust his position as president. No, I'm not going to talk about his peculiar procedures in the appointment of a new government, including stretching the time limits today. I'm not going to talk here about how he deliberately transferred his authority to the Ministry of Justice. I will merely say that the President's powers should be refined so that he cannot interpret them according to his own standards. However, I want to talk about the fact that approximately a hundred university professors are exposed to the incomprehensible self-confidence of the head of state who refuses to sign them and hand over the relevant decrees. "If the proposals are piling up, it is not my fault," said President Zeman, saying that he had already agreed with the former Minister to change the law of transferring this power to the Minister. Now he is said to like the idea of a new head of education and the government has complied. President Zeman therefore hopes that the amendment will be approved quickly and he will not deal with the professors at all. No, I don't cook out of water. The President's insistence on his position and the fact that he will not sign any appointment decree to the new professors in the current situation was communicated personally to the members of the Czech Rectors' Bureau on 20 January this year. I am among those who believe that the current text of the proposal is unacceptable especially for the newly introduced substantive assessment of the expertise of candidates by the President of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. This would undoubtedly jeopardise the autonomy of universities. Moreover, it does not even correspond to internationally usual procedures. In the case of the appointment of professors, this act is the completion of a process in which candidates have had to meet the legal conditions and professional requirements that are relevant in the matter and the subsequent appointment is only the conclusion of the process. [[9.30 hours]] In addition, constitutional lawyers point out that the proposal referred to the power to entrust the President of the Senate has no constitutional logic. If Parliamentary chambers decide on some personnel proposals in limited cases, they do so as a whole. The Chairs of the Chambers are therefore not constitutional bodies which could or should have such authority. Yes, in a democratic rule of law, where the division of power and activity is valid, the decision to appoint professors is fundamentally a matter of power. And, of course, the president, you know this very well, as head of state, he's part of it. He remembered Act No.35/1920 Coll. implementing the Law on the Service of Higher Education Teachers, where it stated in Section 1: "The proposal of the College of Professors to appoint a professor of higher education will be submitted to the Ministry of Education and National Education, which will arrange for further steps for the appointment of the President of the Republic. " He also remembers the Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions, where it says that "in the proceedings for the appointment of a professor there is evidence of the pedagogical and scientific or artistic qualification of a candidate who is a prominent and respected scientific or artistic person in his field. Professor for a specific field," I quote from that law, "names the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Scientific Council of the College, made through the Minister." I understand that, and that makes sense, and it doesn't strengthen the influence of politicians on the running of universities. President Zeman doesn't want to admit that mustard without roast beef sucks. He stated that he had negotiated with part of the parliamentary parties an accelerated discussion of the amendment to the Higher Education Act. I don't know where the president gets the confidence. It is not at all certain whether most of us agree on the transition from president to chief of the upper chamber or to the relevant minister. Of course, someone understands their own things, the other can judge what others understand. It began with a refusal to appoint Martin Putna as Professor and continued with a dispute between Miloš Zeman and the Rector of Masaryk University, Mikuláš Bek, in October last year, when this university unfortunately refused to give the president space to lecture on academic grounds before the election. Miloš Zeman did not invite Mikuláš Bek to award state honors because of this, which also caused some embarrassment. The efforts of the rector of Brno University did not go well. "I invited the President and he told me," I quote his words, "that he would never accept the invitation of Masaryk University." No, I'm not going to comment on this, including because the Education Exminister Dalibor Štys publicly stated that President Zeman is willing to continue discussing with academics that the appointment power would eventually return to the head of state. No, President Zeman should not retreat from a proven tradition. If it preserves a valid modification, I am ready to declare publicly: God save our master, another could be even greater blow. At this point, however, I am one of those Members who have not found a single reason to support the draft considered. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u3	That was Mr Grebeníček. The floor is with Mrs Anna Putnová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u4	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Since the middle of last year, there has been a debate in political and professional circles on the form of appointment of university teachers of professors. The TOP 09 has held a clear negative position since the beginning of this dispute. We consider the material, the amendment that comes to the discussion today, to be entirely dedicated, and therefore we will not support its transfer to second reading. Let me briefly introduce the arguments that led us to this. We consider the legal situation to be legally safe, satisfactory and inappropriate to change competences. I also believe that it is necessary to maintain the continuity of established practices, which is also supplemented in this case by the fact that the appointment of professors by the President increases the seriousness of this academic rank in an extralegal way. The appointment by the President as a politically independent and supra-party person cannot be replaced by the appointment of another constitutional agent, who is always representative of his political party. I also disagree with the possibility for the President of the Senate to examine and assess the process of proposing persons to university professors in any way. I consider this an inadmissible intervention in the autonomy of universities. Neither does the representation of universities agree with this proposal. It is not true, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, that no clear agreement has been reached with the bodies of representation of universities, since no agreement has been reached. The Czech Rectors' Conference clearly disagrees with the proposal, as is apparent from the resolution of the Czech Rectors' Bureau of 22. 1st of this year. Overall, the explanatory memorandum is very unconvincing. It states, for example, that the appointment of professors is currently burdening the President's administration. Likewise, the communications, which highlight the symbolic and formal nature of the Senate President's procedure, do not correspond to the draft text of the law. I would like to remind you that in countries where state power is involved in the appointment of professors through its constitutional officials, it is the President who appoints them. It is not only Hungary, Poland, but it is also France. For these reasons, we will not support the referral of the proposed amendment to the next reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u5	Another enrollment is Mr. Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come before you in our Chamber of Deputies as probably the highest active practicing academic official or dignitary, so you can take me as a representative of the academic community, university educators and scientific staff. Let us remember, and it has already been mentioned that both the Rectors' Conference does not agree with the amendment of the Higher Law, and it is the resolution of 8 and 22 January 2014, as well as the Higher Education Council of 23 January 2014. But more importantly, the fact that most academic communities, professors, lecturers, assistants, educators, researchers, as I say, university workers and our science disagree with the adjustment. These are the ones I have recently asked about their view of the proposed change, and I can tell you with a clear conscience that no one agrees with this change except perhaps the petitioner, or perhaps the previous translator. The only thing that sounded about this whole case was the idea of the professors being appointed further by the President. There are many reasons and arguments, we have heard many from the rapporteur, such as the tradition, the majesty of the President. Other arguments that maybe the President doesn't want to work or that we're changing the law just for one person. Mr Kalousek mentioned what happens when the President is elected to the Senate in five, seven, eight years, elected President of the Senate - then we change the law again because of him? [[9.40 hours]] For me, however, another argument is important, which I would like to introduce to you and which may not please someone from the academic community. I see the president as an insurance policy with sufficient, and I dare say the highest authority, which may point out the poor or dubious decisions of the academic chambers and raise objections to the appointment. Let us not think that there are not people in the academic community who have achieved the degree of professor without, in my opinion, really deserved it. That there's no practice where if you don't pass the appointment procedure at one university, you won't try it on another one that may be more benevolent, or you'll go abroad. Perhaps we could find such examples in our House. And in the end, those people are gonna get their dirty title. For these reasons too, I am deeply convinced that the appointment should finally remain in the hands and powers of the President of the Republic. I think it is also a good thing that he may sometimes turn against the appointment of some candidates. Honestly, which one of you would notice the scolding of the President of the Senate and which one of you would notice the protests of the President of the Republic. And if the President, criticizing or refusing to shoot, then there is a public and an academic community that will certainly stand up for the candidate against any injustice of the head of state, as we have witnessed recently. Therefore, I would like to ask you, hear the call of the academic community, do not accept this proposal. Which is why I would like to ask the President to reconsider his position. At this point, I propose that this motion be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u7	Yes, so you are adding to Mr Kalousek's proposal, which he also proposed in the debate. Yes, thank you, that was the last one so far... It wasn't the last one. Mr. Chairman Mihola. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u8	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, many have been said on this subject, so I will add a few more words for the KDU-ČSL club. Among other things, because I have been active for 15 years, or until this time for the last 15 years, I have been in a higher education environment and I am very interested in this issue and I am very close to it. We have already heard comments from colleagues who are closest to the issue and are most competent to it. I am thinking, above all, of Professor Zlatuška and Professor Fiala's two-time ex-rector. Although their views on the matter differed with regard to the solution for the future, the basically common denominator was to unite with the rejection of this amendment of the higher education law. I, as a representative of the conservative party, will not be surprised by the fact that I am certainly not against the mind to maintain the existing form of appointment of university professors, although it may seem archaic to anyone. The title of a university professor is the highest academic rank, and it seems logical and right to me that if we want to stay with symbols, traditions and some more solemn award, it is right to come from the head of this state, not to pass it on to other constitutional officials. It could eventually also become dissatisfied, or someone might have a problem with someone, and it would pass on as a relay. I'm sure it wouldn't feel right. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] This is what I am leaning on, which has also been said here, to discuss a possible change, because, as I see developments in some other European countries, indeed, in those that are historically closest to us, there have been changes. There was talk of Germany. There it is different in different Länder, and even the transfer of a higher education diploma is often done without any ceremonial act and the professor is sent an appointment by post, or in two Länder even the university itself takes care of the matter without the Minister of Education entering into it at all. This also changed in Austria, to which we had historically probably the closest, where since 2002 professors are no longer federal civil servants, but only university employees, and therefore there ceased to exist what was similar to us, what used to work there, that the professors were appointed by the Federal President. At this point, the federal president can give a university teacher the title of professor, but then it only feels like his -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u9	Mr. Ambassador, I am very sorry, but I am asking all those who are having private conversations here to do so outside this O.R. because the noise level is really unbearable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u10	So I'm summing up. I am not defending myself in the future, but I would like this to not happen so spontaneously, spontaneously. After all, the whole thing actually kind of missed its effect because it got stuck in the appointment of Professor M C Putna, who is perhaps the most famous Czech professor now, probably without wanting to. And the question is whether it's right or worthy of such popularity. So I would like to conclude by saying that KDU-ČSL is in favour of rejecting the proposed amendment to the Higher Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u11	Another enrollment is Mr. Jiří Pospíšil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few lines and a few observations on the debate that is taking place here. So far, there are basically experts in higher education, specialists who work in the school committee. Their view of the proposal is negative. My view is similar. And allow me a few words from the lawyer, because in addition to some technical or factual reasons that have been said here, for example, that the academic community does not agree with this, that the Council of universities, the Rectors' Conference and so on, it is also good to emphasise legal reasons. Let me just make three or four comments. Very briefly. One. If we change legislation, then there should be some obvious reason. That means the law doesn't work. We're always complaining about the legal jungle, about the law, about the permanent amendments to some laws, about the unnecessary legislation of the type of zoological garden law. But this, ladies and gentlemen, which we are discussing today, is typically a useless amendment, where there is no obvious reason why the law on universities needs to be amended. There is no clear reason why current legislation does not work. So please, those of you who ran under electoral programs, let's deal with the quality of legislation, let's just accept the changes that are necessary within society; they should not vote in favour of this legislation today. The second reason, from a legal point of view, why the law should not be adopted is that it is only a partial amendment. If someone here wants to debate what the position of the President of the Republic is to be in the constitutional and legal system of the Czech Republic, what powers it should have, then I believe that such a change would be serious only after a comprehensive general debate on what appointment powers of the President of the Republic should remain. [[9.50 hours]] Because soon we can wait for the President of the Republic to decide not to appoint generals, not to appoint a judge, not to appoint a president of the courts, etc., and this amendment could be on the table again. Why we withdraw the right to appoint professors to the President of the Republic, virtually. Why doesn't the President of the Republic want to appoint professors? And why doesn't it bother him at the same time that he's naming - I'm stressing in quotation marks - a rank judge? That's not logic. So please, I refuse to support such partial amendments. The third reason that has been raised here, which, in my view, is quite crucial, is at all the approach to the proposed amendment and its emergence. Ladies and gentlemen, as an experienced elderly Member, I strongly warn here that we accept amendments and change the powers of public authorities only because the particular public authority holder, the particular executor, refuses to exercise his powers. I think that this is the greatest danger of this amendment, and therefore, even those who might consider, in substance, that the President of the Senate might exercise such authority should reject this amendment. I warn you about this here, and that is also the main reason why I have appeared here as a man who has spent years dealing with the law and the Constitution of the Czech Republic. If we conclude that public authorities can arbitraryly interpret their powers, they can reject them and ask for a sovereign of public power in the Czech Republic, the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to change laws for them, then this, ladies and gentlemen, is the destruction of the democratic rule of law. That's why I got off, I thought I'd say it this hard. If we proceed to the philosophy of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, we establish the destruction of a democratic rule of law, which is based on the division of power, it is based on the fact that we have individual constitutional and legal bodies which have divided powers, there is a system of brakes and scales, and these authorities and their powers and control are balanced. There is no way that one body, any body, may not be the President of the Republic, has deliberately said that he is rejecting his position in the constitutional and legal system and wants to have other powers. This is indeed, in principle, a legal revolution, albeit negative in this case, when a public authority - the President of the Republic - rejects certain powers. But it may happen next time, ladies and gentlemen, that he will want to add some authority to this kind of organ. And in principle, it will be the same and equally dangerous. So I warn you very much about this, and please, for all of us, the main reason for this should be that we are putting the principles of democratic rule of law at risk. Finally, the last legal argument that has also been made here in the debate is the content of the amendment itself. I believe that it is not appropriate in the parliamentary Republic to delegate such appointment powers to the head of one of the chambers of a two-chamber parliament. It has also been said here, I think Mr Grebeníček said that he sees this constitutional lawyer as inappropriate. The head of the Chamber of Parliament is perceived as a representative of the collective body and should have at least, or preferably, no executive separate powers. This simply shifts the importance of the House of Parliament's head and makes it a special body with its executive powers, and once again changes the character and principle of democratic rule of law, which is enshrined in the Czech Constitution. So, ladies and gentlemen, so briefly a few of my remarks. I have spoken so as to make it clear that the arguments are not only technical, that they are not only the arguments of the university specialists, but they are also purely legal arguments. The arguments that relate to the basal nature of our democratic rule of law. So I also support the rejection of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u13	Mr Schwarzenberg is another member of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, if any of us had taken someone hostage and blackmailed the authorities or other institutions, he would have rightly been charged, convicted and even shut down with the help of God. However, when someone takes our university teachers, their careers and their advances in universities as hostages to promote their goals, to achieve a change in the powers and position of the President, we have a serious debate here instead of saying that we will not accept blackmail and that the person should be charged precisely for what every normal citizen among us is convicted of, namely, extortion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u15	I do not have any further applications for the debate; I am ending the general debate. I will ask the rapporteur and the Minister if they want final words. The rapporteur? Would you like to come out, rapporteur? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that of the eleven performers, apart from the Minister, whose position as the promoter is understandable, there was a clear agreement to reject this amendment at first reading. I think it is also well characterised by the general agreement in the academic community and in the university community, which is clearly in favour of not doing such a purpose, virtually. unwarranted changes. There were a number of arguments. I would only dare here to correct the two claims which were made in the debate. Mr Grebeníček mentioned the idea of a new head of education. It is documented that this was presented by the previous Minister. And Mr Vácha, when he spoke of the president's ability to correct the practice of chambers, it is the practice of academic councils. But these are irrelevant things from the point of view of the whole thing. I am pleased that proposals for rejection have been made, and I fully support them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u17	Thank you. Minister with the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u18	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, let me stop at some of the points that have been said here because there have been several half-truths, perhaps even untruths, said here. First - resolution CKR. It is not true that the resolution states that it does not agree with this amendment, as it is tabled. There are two sentences written: that it does not agree that it is presented by the government without confidence and that it does not agree with this because it has not been discussed with universities. We discussed this issue here yesterday. Second issue - substantive assessment. I was here last night saying that if you let it go to second reading, I'd want to remove it. Yes, it is true that universities do not agree with this and do not want the President of the Senate to judge the appointment of professors on a material basis. That's what we talked about yesterday. General approval of universities - well, I have dealt with a number of university rectors on this particular topic, at random with the Rector of Charles University, with the Rector of Czech Technical University and others. The truth is that the preferred variant of rectors is the appointment of professors as president. But at the same time, the truth is that the rectors say, rather than prolonging this situation, we are willing to discuss another option. [[10.00 hours]] Part of it is inclined to the Senate President's choice. I would like to point out here that the President of the Senate is the second highest constitutional figure in the country, so he's not some doorman, as someone suggested. He's the second highest constitutional figure in the country. The second variant - the minister, and the third variant, which resonates in the academic sphere, is the Rector. What to say in conclusion. honourable Members, we have essentially two possible options ahead of us. Option of release for second reading, where I am willing to cooperate on an amendment, either in the Minister's option or in the Senate President's variant, with the fact that the site in question would not be assessed at the level of the President of the Senate. Or maybe there's a second option, colleagues, and that's rejection. If this is rejected, I will, of course, accept it, and my task as Minister of Education is to continue to negotiate with the President of the Republic and to discuss with the rectors of universities how to deal with this situation. Thank you for your attention. And I'm just pointing out that somebody left a bitten teddy bear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u19	Minister, thank you for explaining to me what this is. We've been looking at this for a long time and we had no idea what it was. Well, thank you for the explanation, and I'm sure it'll be removed during the break. That was the Minister's final word. At this stage, we have nothing but a vote to deal with the proposals that have been made in the debate. Mr Kalousek and Mr Vácha propose to reject this proposal. I'll put it to a vote, but before that, I'm going to sign you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards again. I'll ring the bell. Once the numbers are stable, we will be able to vote. There's a motion to dismiss this motion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has 119, registered is 149, for 91. This proposal was adopted. Print 92 was rejected at first reading. I will therefore end the discussion of paragraph 36 and pass the proceedings on to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-003-036.u20	Good morning, honourable Members. We'll continue with the program. Now item 26 is included. It's about
