ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u1	16. Members of Helena Langšádlová, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Jan Bartošek, Daniel Korte, Marek Ženíšek, Jiří Skalický, Michal Kučera, Herbert Pavera, Markéta Adamová, Zdeněk Bezecný, Nina Nováková, Gabriela Pecková and Jan Farský for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, and Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended /German press 107/ - first reading We received the Government's position as press 107/1. Please - I presume - Mr Chvojka, to present this proposal as the petitioner. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me make it clear briefly what the magic of House press number 107 is. This press is amending the Civil Code of Justice. To begin with, something briefly about the issue of costs in general. The current legal situation does not distinguish in any way the type of very different proceedings, which leads to a certain imbalance in the proportionality of the award of these costs. The exact same truth applies in the case where the parties have a genuine factual and legal dispute, propose and implement evidence, as well as in the case where the court proceedings are not an expression of a factual or legal dispute but merely an administration of claims. The discrepancy between the costs and the amount of the contested amount is then very high for the so-called bagging disputes that are not really complex or legally complex at the moment. The current situation leads to an atypical situation in which generic claims are paid in a given batch band because the above-mentioned costs exceed the significant economic intensity of the conduct of the dispute. This paradox results in those claims being traded above their nominal value and their application is in fact motivated by more expected judgement than by the nature of the claim. In practice, this leads to justice being overwhelmed by the type of such seeming disputes. The consequence of this situation is, among other things, that trust in justice and justice of judicial decision-making declines. The overwhelmingness of judges and courts also leads to a decline in the enforcement of the law in a broader sense, which also deepens distrust of justice. That was a little bit of a theory. If I can afford, a little bit of life, practically. This bill seeks so-called. negative disputes, which means in disputes up to 10,000, that the cost of legal representation should be reduced compared to what is happening today, to the amount of two to three legal acts, that is to say 600 to 900 crowns. There are legal disputes that may not even be legal disputes, but rather disputes that are filed on the basis of some forms. It's called. Form actions, which, rather than any legal dispute and the filing of the case, are a matter of administration of a claim rather than of finding or filing an action. And we are of the opinion that in these cases the remuneration for legal representation should not be the same as for the actual legal dispute, where there must be some competence and where some legal dispute must be real and where there must be some substance. Of course, someone can say, and I'm sure it will be said here that the proposal is not perfect. It wasn't even those two before us. That this could be different, that they're worried about getting lawyers even paid for their jobs, etc. etc. I am of the opinion, as with the two previous prints, that this is a very focused and sensitive social topic. We all know the cases where a person from a debt of CZK 150 for not paying the TV bill got $20,000 in debt. This is what we want to do, and it doesn't really matter in my opinion whether it will be dealt with by this law, this amendment, or whether it will be resolved more quickly, for example. in the form of a decree by the Ministry of Justice. I think that's a subject that's sensitive. It must be said that, until we passed this amendment, nothing much happened, and since this amendment is in the legislative process, a team has already met at the Ministry of Justice to address this issue. And maybe he'll solve it sooner and better than our law. However, I repeat, it is a certain kick out of this painful and sensitive topic, because - I repeat once again - I think it is not entirely standard for a debt of CZK 20 for driving on the black subway, even if it is not to be done, to grow into a $20,000 claim. If I so ask the Minister after the debate or during the discussion, or perhaps the Minister of the Prime Minister of the Legislative Council, to tell us if there are any other, better jobs going on. Something's been going on at the Justice Department since I got the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Lukáš Pleticha. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u4	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, good day and thank you for your word. Before I approach the newsletter, so as to dispel doubt, I will declare myself an attorney, I am a member of the Bar. I deal with part of my agenda and debt recovery. So I can be in some kind of conflict of interest. However, I do not represent any transport business, any self-government, any enforcement agency or any claim trader. On the contrary, the larger part in this field of my agenda is that, on the contrary, I represent debtors or people against whom these claims are applied. I also cooperate with some non-profit organizations that provide some sort of first-aid or first-aid services in this field, but then the next one, that's mostly for lawyers. And for this very reason, I would like to say that I know a little bit more about this market segment and about this issue than perhaps other colleagues who have proposed this law. This law only responds to a certain part of this segment, namely those claims which are sued mainly to obtain profits in the field of judgments and execution. But that's just a certain height. The market is much more colorful, and it's the same as when it's trading stocks. There are plenty of ways to deal with them. I dare say that this proposal, if it comes as it is presented, will be like a vaccine for one type of tumor, but 15 other types of cancer will cause it. I mean, the other ways in which debtors have to face creditors' attacks, they're not just through judgment, but despite the fact that agencies and creditors just want to pay off the debtors. They already find out who's able to pay for something during the first proceedings, and mostly they agree to pay for small amounts, little, especially for them to pay. It's not about these costs at all. On the contrary, in the way that we approach here as proposed, we will reduce the possibility of defending these things substantially to those debtors, because, in fact, even if they win, they will not get the cost of a lawyer back. Another thing that is that few attorneys will go into a dispute so that they will settle only with the judgment, so even the debtor, even if he wins in the end, defend himself, will still lose, because it will cost him far more than if he didn't fight back and he was at his mercy. That is why I think this proposal, as it is put forward, is not well. I agree completely with the need to address this issue. I assume that further discussions and speeches by the Minister will be in the same spirit as at the previous point and that this proposal will continue to be worked on. I'm already right here, so that we don't have to open up the debate, I suggest that the processing of this issue be extended for another 60 days, so that there is time to analyse the various ways in which claims are traded, how the issue is at all, so that we don't accept something that only solves a small part of the problems, and in another part it unleashes, I literally dare say, hell. It is always the case in the Civil Code when it is sued, so it is preferred to cash performance, for example, over some repair of damage. It will also have a pretty bad impact on all other disputes, types of disputes - consumer disputes, claims for defects, damages, but also in employment relationships, because, in such a situation, many employers pay off their debts, i.e. wages from some part-time work, agreements, do not pay and say to the one who worked: judge. This will cause completely unwanted effects in completely different areas where we did not expect it at this time. [[17.50 hours]] And it could have another impact on the authorities as well. It is not true, as the explanatory memorandum states, that this adjustment will have no impact on public budgets, on the budgets of self-governments. It will be. Likewise, when the enforcement of law or the defence against law gets worse, claims to self-government will grow, black rides will grow, because it is worth dealing with, only if the value of those claims is close to the value of CZK 10,000. And then the money will be missed. Every municipal or regional council politician who has ever faced budgeting and financing public service obligations and services knows this. Not to mention the fact that the unfortunate 1990s and business relationships will return to a large extent, transaction costs will increase, and those impacts will be hard to say today. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would not repeat what has already been said in previous proposals. I am inclined to continue to work with this proposal in the way that the Minister outlined in the previous paragraph that the Ministry should carry out further analysis of this issue and that we should also have a little more time to consider all kinds of impacts. Therefore, that period should be extended by 60 days to discuss this point at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. As much as I have noted, rapporteur, to propose an extension of 60 days, it must be heard in the debate, so when I open the debate, then I will ask you to sign up for it. And so I am opening the debate. I'm just going to determine the order in which they're going to perform. I have here one factual comment by Mr Grebeníček. [[He doesn't want to.]] No, that's a mistake, okay, I'm erasing. And then two requests for priority rights. The first is the Minister of Justice, then the Minister and Chairman of the Government Legislative Council. Both with priority rights. Then it comes down to properly logged in as their names shine on the board. Madam Secretary, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u6	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I was actually invited to speak, but I wanted to speak to you and inform you of the situation - I almost also want to say on the battlefield, because we have met twice in the last few weeks on the Constitutional Legal Committee, that was 26. 2, then a follow-up meeting at the Justice Department last week - no, this week. In any case, it is clear that the issue, as presented in the parliamentary proposal, is not well worked out. However, as in the previous case of the Parliamentary Press 106, it is extremely necessary. Here I think it is appropriate to ask myself a question, given that we have expressly promised in our programming statements, in the coalition agreement, but I also think individually as candidates for the Chamber of Deputies, that we will tackle this issue very quickly. That is why, although I otherwise plan for the adoption of complex, well thought-out proposals, our ministry will rather go the way that it prepares it - it has already prepared it, I hold it in my hand - the proposal for amendment of Decree No. 177 on the bar rate, through which they quickly change the rates to be determined, set, in case of recovery and application of any bagatelable debt at all, to end the so-called. a debt business to get what the public is calling for. At the same time, it will be implemented - we are already prepared - a change in the civil order and the order of execution, but don't count on the fact that this is a complex change. It is only a very brief amendment which allows reference to the relevant decree, which will determine the amount of compensation for the costs incurred and the loss of earnings of the parties for the purposes of deciding on the costs of the proceedings on the one hand, and then provides that if the party to the proceedings, which was not represented by the lawyer in the proceedings and does not demonstrate the amount of the costs incurred and the loss of earnings, then he will be entitled to the award of the court, to reimbursement of the costs incurred in the amount determined by the decree, but not more than CZK 1000. That amount is the only one that I have mentioned here in particular, because the other amounts mentioned in the draft amendment to the Law Tariff Decree are still being debated, but it will soon be closed, namely this Friday. We are going into inter-ministerial proceedings, or very soon we will be confronted and we will also hear the opinions of others, whether we are the rates that are different depending on whether it is a tariff-value procedure, i.e. the amount that is decided in cash transactions up to 2,000. Kroner, or 2,000. up to 5,000. Kroner, or 5,000. up to 10 thousand. Crowns. We assume that the reimbursement of costs will be counted against a maximum of five acts of legal service. But I'm already going into too much detail, and I'm sure that's what we're going to talk about in the Constitutional Legal Committee. What's the end of my performance? Since I think that the proposal put forward is a completely different philosophy, and I do not think that the amendment to the principle of granting compensation for proceedings in bagatile matters, which is set out in such disputes cannot be awarded remuneration for representing a party, is completely clarified, so I myself will not be inclined to give a favourable opinion, nor will I support this proposal. However, if the vote is not to be rejected, I would definitely be in favour, although I cannot propose as the petitioner myself, that there should also be an extension of 60 days so that, if our approach, the more complex one, could be taken into account in the amendment to the bill tabled. Despite everything, I cannot imagine that this would work well in legislative practice, because the philosophy of the proposed bill is different from that of the Ministry of Justice. I'm sorry if my interpretation was a little vague. This is due to the fact that this issue is very simple on the one hand, it is only about rates and their reduction and admission or non-recognition of finished costs. On the other hand, what causes, what may have side-sided and unexpected effects makes me a little nervous and makes me more cautious to raise my hand in the imaginary sense of the word for adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u7	Madam Secretary, you have spoken in the debate and you are also a Member, so of course you can propose an extension. So if we can assume that you've suggested a 60-day extension, that might be it. If you don't agree, someone else will definitely suggest it. But it's your right, you could have done it. The fact is that President Kalousek has two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary through the President, I very much appreciate you saying 'I'm sorry if it's not too understandable'. You were right, it isn't. However, as an elected representative of the people, I have to make some decisions. And I'm a simple boy from the South Bohemian countryside. Would you please be so kind as to try to sum up what you were going to say in two sentences? I really don't know. It's my fault, of course. I beg you, if you would try to educate me. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u9	Minister Dienstbier preferred the Minister of Válková. Please, you can answer President Kalousek's question immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u10	I have tried to express here the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, which prefers to be adjusted by amending the Order on the Bar Tariff and by introducing very low rates in cases of back-up claims, which are, however, divided into several zones, and at the same time by establishing the maximum number of legal acts to be paid, as well as by setting the amount for the so-called. expenditures completed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u11	Indeed, President Kalousek wants to perform again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u12	Well, now I know. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u13	The next party to the debate is Minister Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u14	Mr President, Madam Members, I would just like to clarify the information on Mr Chvojka's question about the Government's intention. The Minister has already stated that her resort is preparing its own bill, virtually. a proposal for a government bill. I would point out that in the Government's legislative plan, this standard is open twice. The first amendment should be submitted by the Ministry of Justice to the Government by the end of April of this year and to the House, as we have also mentioned in our opinions on the proposals under discussion, by the middle of the year. Another amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement could be much wider. The first one would only respond to the most recent problems, the second one should be submitted to the government by the end of this year. [[There's a constant noise in the O.R.]] In general, I would say that I am pleased that there is obviously a much greater will to discuss this matter than it was in the previous House, because similar proposals have been rejected here in the past. And I would like to say that the adjustment of the backpacking claims and the substantial reduction of the costs associated with the recovery of claims are absolutely essential from several points of view. Because the debt recovery system is completely out of order with us. On the one hand, it liquidates debtors, but creditors often fail to meet their claims due to the cost of the system. Of course, the second dimension that is related to the borrower's side is the social situation, the increase in debt - and I am returning again to practical non-enforcement. If there are any opinions that, in the event that a similar regulation is adopted, no one can be legal aid, that legal representation will not be possible, then I would refer to foreign regulations, where, let's say, there are two basic models. One British model, which we have argued here in the past, envisages that any costs of the proceedings will not be refunded at all in the case of negative claims. Now, look what the backpacking claims are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u15	I'm sorry, Minister, the noise in the room is already...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u16	It's a little busy here, true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u17	I didn't mean to interrupt, but I had to now. So please all those who want to discuss whether they stop or move into the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u18	However, if we are talking about backpackers in the British model, it is converted into crowns of over CZK 100,000, in terms of the parity of purchasing power it is about half. So, in order, it's quite somewhere else other than the amount we're talking about in the draft law. And yet no British model of justice collapses. In so-called In principle, the German model applies to the principle that the costs are granted as high as the principal of the debt recovered. For a hundred crowns, it would be a maximum of 100 crowns, which roughly corresponds to the proposed proposal. Again, the German debt recovery system is not collapsed. On the contrary, the cheaper the system is, the greater the enforcement of claims even from the point of view of creditors. It is precisely because there is so often no overpayment on the debtor's side, and hence subsequent non-enforceability. Transport companies have been mentioned here. I consider the recovery of transport companies' claims through lawyers and subsequently execution, all with legal representation, to be almost the most immoral part of this business. Not because public transport fares should not be paid. However, it should be noted that the transport undertaking has between 600 and 1,000 CZK to the price of the fare or a premium, and this premium or penalty is sufficient to cover the costs associated with the recovery of claims by its own forces without necessarily burdening the transport undertakings. And I consider it almost scandalous if the municipalities that have transport undertakings burden their own people with this overpriced debt recovery system in this way. In doing so, it is absolutely clear that these are form actions where any qualified legal assistance in their enforcement is not provided. It is a question of filling out some form, previously recycled, today written on a computer, and it is actually koruna items, unless, of course, we are talking about a court fee, but it is also granted by the bill. I would like to express my agreement here with the principle contained in this bill, but I would also add a reservation here that I do not feel happy if there are a number of amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and the Enforcement Order, which each addresses one completely legitimate but partial question. Perhaps it would not be good for this House and subsequently the Senate to approve four, five, six amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement within a few months. Therefore, I would consider it much more rational if there was room for the government to present its own proposal for an adjustment, relatively comprehensive, in two steps, i.e. by the middle of the year and by the end of this year, and a proper review procedure, i.e. a standard legislative process, to assess the effects of such regulation and, consequently, to ensure that the adjustment is of good quality, so that the unintended impacts are not even worse than some we see today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u19	Thank you, Minister. Madam Secretary is still applying, and he wants to take advantage of his priority rights, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u20	I will try to be as clear and decisive as Minister Dienstbier has done now in his speech. I think that the way we're going to propose you as the fastest solution that will quickly satisfy the public in the sense that the possibility of making money on the debt business will be removed through the modified legal tariff, and we have this opportunity and we have it ready, can calm you down, and at the same time, at the Justice Department, of course, I promise that we will keep those deadlines. If we can prepare a really high-quality comprehensive amendment to the Civil Code in the middle of the year, we will do our best. In that second step, we will definitely process it by the end of 2014. So in conclusion, I would just like to appeal to the fact that we really consider raising our hand for this proposal in such an imperfect state, virtually. If we let him in, we'll do another reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u21	Thank you. I do not have any further requests to speak with priority rights, and therefore, please the first one entered in the debate properly, and this is Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u22	Thank you for the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] I wouldn't want to repeat myself, but I still have to. I am not a petitioner of this law, I have great reservations as to how the bill is written, but I will be in favour of not rejecting it at first reading, because the time loss that we could face if we waited for the Ministry of Justice to submit this bill, to complete and be approved in this House may be several months, probably six months. And in six months, a lot of people are going to get into existential trouble because a lot of people are going to have to--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u23	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but it's wrong here again. I'll ask the right side of the hall to lower the noise level a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u24	I can handle it with a slight noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u25	There's no point in yelling at each other, then somebody comes back with a meter and we all turn out wrong. So I'm gonna wait a minute and it's gonna get better... Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u26	Thank you. I think it is important that we put an end to the system as soon as possible, when, of the thousand-crown claims, specific debtors pay the costs of the proceedings as well as 17, 16, 15 or 20 thousand. Crowns. This is a system that should have changed in the past. I have to say, it could have been changed by previous Justice Ministers without the House's consent. I would like to draw attention to this, and I would also like to point out that a number of problems have already been resolved by the interpretation of both the courts and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but unfortunately we should still proceed to the amendment of the law. I would also prefer that there was a government proposal that would be comprehensive and sophisticated. The proposal is not logical here at the moment, because the government has recently set up, which is why I think we should take advantage of the opportunity of the proposal presented here by individual Members. This proposal has the positives when it reduces the fees and costs for debtors. Unfortunately, he's got negatives. One was mentioned here by Mr Pleticha, and it is, of course, connected with the fact that not only does he who sues receive the costs, but he who is the defendant, too. And the moment we reduce the compensation to a minimum, it may be that people who are justified in defending themselves and who will be successful in a dispute with a particular plaintiff, perhaps some company that lends money and also claims money that they have not lent, then they will not be able to pay the costs and thus be able to afford a lawyer to represent them in this matter, and therefore they will rather pay a specific amount just to get rid of the problem. This is the risk the proposal has. We have to deal with it, but it is still worth accepting. The second risk that is here in the proposal and which I think needs to be eliminated is that, while today only lawyers receive compensation for the costs of legal representation, in this case everyone would receive compensation under the law, not only the one who enforces as a lawyer who provides the legal service, but also the one who is a creditor, but the one who bought the claim from the creditor and enforces it, even though the lawyer is not, even though he does not provide any service, and I think it is not right. I think that the debt business should end, and if we reduce the amount, that is correct, but we certainly should not give the opportunity to earn more in the system, especially the system that supports collection agencies. Therefore, I think that it is worth considering a model where, in this sense, they could obtain reimbursement of costs both for those represented by a lawyer and for those who themselves enforce their own lawyers, and that would motivate all companies such as transport companies, such as insurance companies and banks, to enforce themselves without hiring lawyers to receive some compensation for the costs of the recovery, but at the same time there was no re-sale of these claims to the recovery agencies, which, in my view, are causing the greatest damage. So these are just proposals for a change. As I say, the proposal is certainly not perfect, on the other hand it is repairable. We have acted several times, and I thank all my colleagues from the Constitutional Legal Committee, in the presence of plaintiffs, People in Need, Bar Association, Executor Chamber and the Ministry of Justice for the possibilities of regulation, which would actually eliminate all risks. Today I have yet again dealt with the representatives of Man in distress, and I think that we are able to prepare a solution within 60 days in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, which would be acceptable, although, as I say, will certainly not comply with everyone, will certainly not be satisfied by the lawyers on the one hand and the debtors on the other. There must always be a compromise. In this case, I think that from one wall on which all the debtors were pressed and paid huge sums, we need to go back and sort things out in a way. I'm sure that debts are meant to be paid, but only adequate enforcement costs are to be paid, and I therefore think that the bill deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u27	Another envoy is Mr Marek Benda, after whom Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered before my colleague Tejc, who I think is saying and responding a lot of what was slightly confused here earlier in the debate. I would like to say that someone may feel that the bill has some fundamental flaws. But the bill does really only two things - and here I disagree with the rapporteur. One. So far, so do we - let's leave the costs aside. The right to finance legal representation - so far it is that you have it in back-up disputes, and the court may exceptionally provide that it will not be granted to you. This is already happening in some courts today, and the problem is that the courts do not judge this in a sufficiently uniform manner. There are some regional courts that have already set out in this direction and have said that the costs of legal representation will not be paid to the recovery agencies, because there is no reason to pay the costs of legal representation for an activity done by a qualified secretary, that is to say, he will write the name, address, birth number and title on the basis of which he is suing. For this, one does not need a legal representation and there is no reason for such costs of legal representation to be granted to him. The proposal is trying to do one thing, because unfortunately today's situation is that these disputes are outnumbered. It is said that the reverse approach: the costs of legal representation will not be recognised unless the circumstances of the case so require. That's the first part. The second part, also mentioned by my colleague Tejc, will at the same time admit to it that even the represented but also represented participant, if he has any costs with the proceedings not with legal representation, but simply with the fact that he has to do so for some time, that he has to write some letters that he will be granted a lump sum for this reimbursement of the costs. Today, according to the Code of Civil Procedure, you are entitled to pay the costs. If you go to court to represent yourself and prove that it cost you an hour to buy two train tickets back and forth, the court can admit them to you. Nobody does it in real life because it's so complicated that it's impossible. And what this proposal wants is for it to be admitted that there will be a flat-rate in these backsliding disputes, which will also allow those generic, as well as those who have a large amount of debt, whether they are Transport Enterprises, whether they are different entities, for health fees, for fees for trash cans and other things, small debts, so that they have some interest in enforcing it with their own efforts and at least partially paid for any office force they have. I would like to say that the Executor Chamber has admitted that last year is approximately 35 percent of the execution of claims that are up to 5,000. Crowns. If we take it last year's worth about 750 grand. Execute, so let's just take how many people are affected. And that, of course, is where the costs of the proceedings are going up. In the beginning, you have a debt of 5,000. CZK and often much lower and at the end you have at least fifteen and often much higher. [[18.20 hours]] And all that this proposal is trying to say is that no debts are to be paid. No, I'm not responsible for what I did. But there is no reason to charge the costs of legal representation for secretarial work, and thus artificially increasing debts and artificially increasing the penalty that falls on the debtor who has not paid in time. Therefore, I would ask very much that we release him. I am glad that the Ministry of Justice is trying to make some kind of way and discussion with the plaintiffs as well as with all the groups involved to change the law order and to find some solution that will be suitable for all parties, especially in those completely negative disputes. I think that the bill should still be here, because if we want to grant some compensation to unrepresented participants, then we have to do it by law and we can't just do it by decree. At the same time, however, I would like to ask that the proposals aimed at extending the deadline be limited to a proposal to extend the deadline by a maximum of 20 days, respectively. I would like to do so - extend the deadline by 20 days so that we have a chance to have this bill discussed by the holiday. Today is March 19th. When we say 60+20 days, we're around June 10th. Then there's a chance the proposal will be discussed. If there is no agreement on it, of course it will not be discussed. Once we say today that we are extending the deadline by 30 or 40 days, this means logically that we are not going back to the proposal until October of this year. And that's where I think that time is unnecessary and that it's possible to make it to the holidays. I therefore propose that the deadline be extended by 20 days so that there is a chance to discuss it at a meeting in June. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pastuchová is now registered. And I just want to inform you that he apologizes from the sixth hour until the end of the meeting, Mr. Benešík. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the amendment to the law we are discussing here. We want to do what we have promised citizens, the public and our voters, and we want to address these problems, and we will therefore support this amendment of the law, although we are aware that, in the current state presented, this adjustment is not optimal, but we want to amend it substantially by means of amendments. At the same time, a 60-day extension has already been proposed with the agreement of the petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u31	Madam, it wasn't. Because the Secretary of State pulled it off, it's up to you, if you want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u32	So we propose an extension of 60 days with the consent of the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u33	Thank you, too. The petitioner agrees? They don't agree? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u34	Like this. Unfortunately, I'm not the only promoter of this press, there are about 20 of us, and the 19 remaining ones are blackmailing me with the fact that I can't, so I can't. So we disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u35	If you disagree, that's not possible. Can you do that if I'm not wrong about 30, by 20? Please, madam. [[This is the Minister of Justice.]] If we can solve this formal matter first, I would give the floor to Mrs Pastuchová and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u36	So we propose 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u37	Yes, thank you. The motion has fallen. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u38	In such a case, when the petitioners disagree with the proposal to extend it by 60 days, and since the bill is what it is, I recommend rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u39	Should I take that as a motion to dismiss, Madam Secretary? [[Yes.]] Okay, I'm registering. Mr. Polčák. [[He asks if there was a messenger before him. Benešik.]] Mr. Benešík apologized, he didn't apply. He was apologizing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u40	Thank you for the clarification, Mr President, I misunderstood. I must therefore say that there are indeed a number of shortcomings in this legislative proposal, and again I will not propose from collegiate to reject it, because many of my colleagues have put forward the proposal, but I really think that it is even more unsuccessful than the previous one. First of all, it is fascinating for me that responsibility for the rule of law, of course, is borne by the ruling majority in the proposed amendments that are now going to Parliament, and that, therefore, it is to a certain extent that it will have to buy legislation when it says: Well, this proposal, though it is wrong, maybe we will rework, so we can continue to deal with it. So if he is accepted, then let him be accepted, but we will present another amendment. This is perhaps not the way of legislative work, when we are going to mount here, to buy legislation just because, therefore, one partial problem will be pulled out, but in the meantime, the government will be preparing a comprehensive next issue. That's one. Secondly, the proposal shows obvious unilaterality. We simply cannot call this anything other than one-sidedness to the detriment of some participants. The rapporteur has brought it to the attention. And I want to say that, to some extent, the situation is also caused by the finding of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the decree on flat-rate remuneration. In it was buried a dog, when the rewards were set very highly for the level of de facto negative disputes and for the rewards, say above the bagatelná, say from the level of CZK 10 to 20,000, on the contrary, it seems that the current adjustment, when followed by the legal tariff, is, in turn, disproportionately burdensome to the participants. In fact, there is an assessment of each act and each act is valued at that level higher and then the costs of legal proceedings are higher than in the case of a flat-rate decree. Moreover, it must be said that the government could have dealt with this situation quite a long time ago. Of course, Parliament does not regulate the decree, and it is the responsibility of the government, so it is also the responsibility of this government, how long it will delay the adoption of the decree, which, in my view, is the right solution. I simply agree with what the Minister of Justice said, namely that this matter should be dealt with by the Ministry's decree. And not only was it started on her work, but they're already de facto finishing. So I myself have seen the proposal that I think is going in the right direction. Secondly or again, there was no fact in any of my colleagues' speeches: the institute of the pre-trial challenge. This has been approved in the past period, so let's not completely pretend that there's going to be a debt at the same time, and the debtor doesn't know anything about it. In order to recover the costs of the proceedings, the creditor must invite the debtor in writing. Without this, it cannot have any costs at all! I'm fascinated that none of the petitioners are talking about it, but the reason report doesn't say anything about it, and it's already a principle that's valid, which means there can't be surprising lawsuits. If a surprise action is made from the point of view of the debtor and if it is not prevented that the debt has been paid or that the debt is senseless or limited, the costs of the proceedings shall not be reimbursed to the creditor unless he has previously tried to deal with the matter outside the court. So let's not hide or be misled by the fact that we don't know the arrangement. For the next one. Here, the petitioners tell us that the participants are not entitled to reimbursement of the costs of legal representation in those types that have been mentioned here. That's a meaningless sentence. In other words, you meet the law's demand, you challenge, even in the bagel thing, your debtor, and he says he won't pay you anything. So the law will say that he won't pay anything, and the only risk of legal proceedings will be that he pays the principal. [[18.30 hours]] What will be the result? The consequence will be that - why should creditors then seek recovery if no one pays them part of that enforced legal representation? I find this very strange, unilateral vision, which he pointed out, I think very rightly, Mr rapporteur, for which I thank him. For the next one. Compensation for representation costs is according to established practice, and I hope that no one will want to change it, led by two principles. Firstly, the principle of success in the matter and, secondly, the principle of procedural guilt. So much for colleagues. It follows, therefore, that the costs of the proceedings must be borne by the party which caused the proceedings to either be terminated or that the debt was receivable because the debtor did not pay or because the debtor resisted. But someone has to pay the costs. The fact that we should discuss their size, perhaps we will not do this on a legal level, is a matter of the Bar and the Order of the Ministry of Justice, which is already issued on the basis of a valid legal mandate. We don't need another law to do that. That authorisation in the law for the activities of the Ministry is. Out of respect for fellow petitioners, I will not make any more public presentations. I think they were to a certain extent - I do not want to say that they were misled, but that the vision of the question of granting legal representation costs is being led too unilaterally in this regulation. In the end, unlike many of my previous speakers, I must say that I should make a statement on this issue that I am a lawyer, because I am also concerned with the possible legislation. On the other hand, I want to state that I have never filed any form or blanket lawsuits, and therefore I have not received any income from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u41	First of all, I would like to inform you that Mrs Pastuchová's proposal for an extension of 30 days requires the agreement of the appellant who provided it. That makes the proposal voteable, and I'm registering it. Before I give everyone the floor, I would like to inform you that this item will be the last item of today's meeting and that we will end today's meeting. I don't want to influence your willingness to report to the debate, but it's information you should know. Mr Pilný, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u42	Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, here we are adopting some laws that have a long-term impact not only because they are affected by the length of the legislative process, but because they concern the economy and their positive impact on our voters, whatever side they have voted for, will take some time. On the other hand, normal people are plagued by things like executors, petty crime, things that concern social housing. And here we are, because laws are made that are not very perfect, we sweep one law after another. In my opinion, it's wrong. Our movement came to the House with a motto that we'd be working. I understand that 30 days to correct such a serious law that is being put forward here may be little, but that is why we came here and we cannot make excuses in front of our constituents for lack of time. And that's what really bothers people. So I'm definitely going to vote against rejecting this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u43	Another factual point - Mr President of ODS Stanjura, then Mr Tejc with a factual point, then Mr Urban with a factual point. I see my announcement didn't affect you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u44	I think it's positive that we know that we can talk to this point, that you won't interrupt us. Well, first of all, just a brief response to my previous speaker, who I didn't report to, but the rejection was suggested by your secretary, no one else in the debate. So that's kind of nice. We, in the debate about the negative amounts owed, seem to be forgetting the other side. Many of you, and one of which political parties, have experience in municipal politics. We're talking about unpaid fines, unpaid rents, unpaid fees. And if there is no adjustment to how it is presented, it means that we will punish those who pay on time, even though they are often in a difficult social or economic situation, they will fulfill their obligation and pay on time. If the only threat is that, after the trial, I will pay the principal I was supposed to pay two, three, four, five years ago, what effect will it have on the fact that many of those who are really in trouble still do their duty? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And we'll pretend that we helped someone, and the problem will often be in the municipal cash registers and in the municipal budgets. Because the cost of enforcement is worth something to you, from the post office to the people who enforce it, and if the only penalty is - that's not actually a penalty - I'll pay three years later if I lose the court, but maybe the holder of the bagel debt gives up if he finds out how difficult it is to get it just to the principal. Let's respect who we support. We have to enforce the law, and debts are to be paid. Let's deal with excesses, yes, but we can't deal with this at the expense of basically stopping backpacking debts because there's no threat to those who won't pay. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u45	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Tejc, followed by Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u46	Thank you for the floor. I hope that, in the end, my belief will not be refuted that while the ANO and ODS, on the one hand, propose rejection and, on the other hand, support the proposal, which is actually not so unusual, we can all make our views on this press, which is definitely not right-wing, so I hope that the Social Democrats will vote unitedly against the rejection of this bill. I would like to reassure Mr Stanjura through the President Hamáček that there will definitely not be people who will pay in time who will be disadvantaged against those who will not pay. I'm sure that would have been wrong if it had turned out that way. We say that anyone who does not pay the debt on time should pay the cost to the creditor, that is, will be penalized. But today it is so that while in the enforcement of the thousand-corner a person will pay fifteen or sixteen thousand, in which case, if the proposal is accepted, he will pay, at least I hope, in the modified version of fifteen hundred or three thousand crowns, which we think is acceptable. And it's also sanctions, raising that particular amount. I would also like to say that we have a certain lead. Yes, if the deadline is extended by 30 days, we have 90 days. In my opinion, that's enough. We have already acted on this, as I have already announced, at the constitutional committee's meeting. We have several options, and we are not afraid that we will not be able to process it properly within the 90-day period. The only thing we can fear is that we don't agree on a solution later. However, I definitely think that we can do this legislatively, with the help of the Justice Department, which I am sure will be, I am convinced, able to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u47	Mr Urban, with a factual point. In fact, then, Mr Polčák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm watching the debate quite carefully here, and I have to say, I'm not familiar with the ANO movement's work. A colleague of mine, Pastuchová, got off and said, "I am performing for the YES movement." We fully support this proposal because we are fighting for voters and we are promoting that there is a longer time to discuss 60 days. Madam Secretary says: I do not agree with the extension of 60 days, so I prefer to propose rejection. Then the chairman of the Economic Committee will come forward and say: we are working, so we do not support rejection or extension of 60 days. We want to discuss this now. Perhaps it would be good, my friends, for you to agree to work on this, so that we can know our way around it, and maybe we can vote with you as a coalition partner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u49	In fact, Mr. Polčák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u50	Before you get this straight in the coalition, I'd like to take a few words for the opposition part. Politically, the previous speaker, Mr Urban, said this very well, but from a technical point of view, I must agree with what the Minister says. Whoever doesn't really understand it, I understand that he jumped on a certain wave, but we don't need the law at all. The law already contains authorisation for the Ministry to amend these matters by decree. I do not understand what Mr Tejc says when he says that acts should also be charged for legal representation when the law says that participants do not have the right to compensation for representation of legal representation. [[18.40 hours]] So what then? So how is this going to change? So that means that we're going to gut the legal intestine that we have here so that the change is going to be completely opposite, which means that eventually the petitioners will admit that there's going to be some reward for legal representation? And please, let's not confuse the reimbursement of the expenses - I noticed that afterwards. The flat-rate amount of compensation for completed expenses is now regulated by paragraph 13 of the Order of the Ministry of Justice, already approved and valid, and if you are actually giving legal authority there, then you are actually just doubling the part that is now in the current legal order. I'm surprised at the quality of the press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u51	I'm surprised at the number of factual remarks. There's five of them. Mr Hájek will now be a Member, Mr Komárek will be prepared. And I'm asking for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u52	Mr President, Mr Government, colleagues, I, like Mr Kalousek, am a simple man, not from South Moravia, sorry, from South Bohemia, but from North Moravia, so some things are not clear to me either, but I suppose I have common sense. We're learning here, and we're working here. I understand today that there's also a possibility to make a proposal that I don't really want. I will put forward a proposal that I do not want, and therefore I will achieve that the existing legislation applies again for six months, a year etc., so I ask the petitioner with common sense. This is where I heard it, and you're making us look like assholes, yes, we probably deserved it today, it's possible, I'm self-critically admitting that we didn't do our best here today, but we were doing our best to prove something here. And it was about the fact that the secretary, who is responsible for the secretary, said yes, there is a proposal that is not optimal, give us 60 days. So I expected the petitioners who understood this situation to say yes, we agree with the Minister and we will support her these 60 days. This is where the frogmy war was made, it was said no, it will only be 30, Madam Secretary will withdraw it, and we are where we are, you have made us assholes, so we apologize, we, Mr Urban, learn, I am the person who learns quickly, thank you for your -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u53	I ask you not to speak directly to Mr Urban, but only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u54	Thank you, Mr Urban, through Mr President, I am a quick learner. Thank you for the lesson. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u55	Yes. Mr Komárek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u56	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I may not be as funny as my colleague Hájek, but - that was funny - I'm sorry, Mr Chvojka, for the microphone and through the President, although it is already outside the Rules of Procedure. [[Mr Chvojka notes something outside the microphone]] But I'm serious. When even a translator like Mr Polčák is torn by the presentation, or the rapporteur - [[Mr Polčák cries out from his seat that he is not a petitioner]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u57	I ask the Members not to shout from the hall to the speaker. I would certainly correct Mr Komárek that Mr Polčák is not a translator of this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u58	Thank you, but very seriously. Please, I'll ask Mr. Stanjura and Mr. Chairman to measure time from now on, that time is running out there, Mr. Stanjur, you can take a look. No, I'm serious. It is no wonder that Members vote according to their consciences and do not vote in the herd. If anyone wants a single vote on a law that's controversial like that, maybe it's a little excessive. I think that if the YES movement votes everyone for itself, it's perfectly okay and there's no point making fun of it. I don't even think it's some kind of vote-by-conscience lesson. It's something we made a commitment to when we made a pledge to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u59	I have here four factual points and one statement before those factual points. If the atmosphere in the hall does not calm down and we do not approach the matter with the dignity that belongs to this congregation, I will interrupt the meeting and continue next time. I will give Mr Pilný some room for a point of fact, but if - he also gets to you, Mr Pilý. Mr Pilný now two minutes later, Mr Tejc, Mr Benda, Mr Polčák. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to amending the Rules of Procedure, we are reminded of democracy. Democracy is like a coin, it has a reverse and a cheek, it means it has rights and responsibilities. We sometimes forget that responsibility and, of course, democracy does not only work in this House, but it also works within the parliamentary clubs. We are dealing with a rather serious law that affects many people, which means that there is a democratic process going on in the middle of clubs. I would just like to point out to Mr Urban, through Mr President, that we are acting rather calmly, it does not almost come to slaps, as we did here before lunch about Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u61	Another factual point - Mr Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u62	I dare to get back to the point. Mr Polčák here said that the House is divided into those who want the law and do not understand it, and those who do not want it because they understand it and are good lawyers. I would like to reject this division because I think, after more than ten years of practice in law enforcement, I can judge what costs are, and in this case, I know very well what I am going to vote on. I will vote on whether I want to deal with a situation that is unsatisfactory as quickly as possible now, which means really high costs of proceedings, which are often in favour of some specific groups that are buying up collective claims or I want to deal with them, but it will wait a few months or I do not want to deal with them. I'm in favour of the first option of the three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u63	Mr. Benda is stahovat out. Mr Polčák - factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to apologize to Mr Komárek for yelling at him from the bench, however, if after all my speeches someone does not understand that I am not the promoter of such a proposal, I am somewhat surprised, so I apologize for my anger with this. Secondly, I must say to Margo what Mr Tejc said - the idea that the fastest way is the way of the law is completely absurd. Just if there's a decree and there's a mandate for the Ministry, you can have it, if the Minister signs it, tomorrow. The idea that we're gonna regulate ourselves by the way of the law and regulate ourselves for a better future is, I think, a completely misguided idea. One thing should be preserved. In particular, the person responsible should pay the costs. And there are institutes that I have been talking about, unfortunately, the explanatory report does not say anything about them, which is supposed to be the sieve to make unwarranted actions, or actions where the debtor is not alerted in advance to the fact that he owes something, so that legal costs do not arise, so that they are not admitted. I wouldn't really sign a bill like that, so I'm not his petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u65	Mr Kalousek with a factual remark, then Mr and President of ODS Stanjura and then Mr Tejc. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Based on the discussion that has taken place in the last tens of minutes, I would like to say that your enlightened regulation on the prohibition of drinking alcohol has proved to be completely ineffective. [[Thunderous laughter and applause from all over the hall.]] I would therefore recommend that you consult Vice-President Jermanová and suggest something more effective, or cancel it. Obviously, it doesn't have any effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u67	I fear that effective measures would be contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Another enrollment is Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u68	I don't want to have a debate about what's or what's not a dignified performance. As a programmer and a man who likes mathematics, I just want to say to my colleague Tejc that there are four options, not just two, as he said. There are those who are in favour because they don't understand it, then there are those who are in favour, although they understand it, against those who understand it and against those who just don't understand it either. It's very simple. That's a lot of things. I must say, I understand the feeling of opposition at the time when they rejoiced when they saw coalition brawls. I get it now, don't I? It doesn't feel so bad when you're sitting here with each other, who of you understands better and who is - and I'm not going to use those terms here right now. I mean, to those who are justly outraged there, either on the one hand or on the other hand, that none of you are right. It's not better that everyone is, and it's not better that someone is up for it and someone is up for it. I know you're using it as you please. Once again, when the opposition proposal comes, be calm, you'll be united again. I think you'll get it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u69	Thank you. Mr Tejc, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u70	I am glad that, unlike the previous period, this Chamber of Deputies does not approach draft laws according to a simple key: that is coalition - we will all approve this from the coalition, that is opposition - we will all reject it from the coalition. That logic no longer applies here. Maybe a little democracy doesn't hurt even in the MPs. I can say for social democracy that we will all vote against the rejection of the bill, and I would only like one argument that has been made here... [[Noise and screams in the hall.]] I don't know what's funny about voting against this bill being rejected, but it may seem ridiculous to the right. But I would like to make one crucial argument for why this matter, although I was willing to admit that it could be amended by a decree, should be amended by law. You know, ministers of justice come and go and are different qualities and some are subject to more lobby, some less. If it is only up to the Minister of Justice to decide what the costs of the proceedings will be, then citizens can be threatened here even when Minister Válková reduces the costs, for example, in the next government. I believe that changing the law is a much stronger instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u71	Mr Plzák, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u72	Thank you for the floor. I would like to lighten up this light end of our negotiations even more and especially for my colleague Kalousek, on behalf of the President, I would like to point out that the dry measure may have had some effect, because when I look behind our bench, I have never seen such a pile of bottles of all kinds of mineral and lemonade. That wasn't really there until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u73	Thank you, too. I want to ask... I know, of course, that Minister Dienstbier is registered. I just want to ask him how long he's planning his performance, if he can fit in seven minutes. If so, please, you have the floor. I'm just saying that the rapporteur is still here for you, but I don't want to limit you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u74	Mr President, I'm going to try to make this as short as I can. I originally wanted to respond with priority right about three quarters of an hour ago to Mr Polčák's proper speech. He was talking about government responsibility, and he's surprised we're breaking up our own business. I pointed out here in my previous speech that I would prefer that the government be given the opportunity to present its own bill, which will be passed through the ordinary legislative process. I am not here for any break-up of the legislative process, and even in the Government's written opinion on the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, this is clearly expressed. The fact that some here want to work beyond the coalition agreement is another fact. I would just like to stress that there are some principles of good governance that require compliance with the rules, and I hope that this will work because, even in its coalition agreement, it has committed itself to this, that it will stand for a quality legislative process which, of course, requires an impact assessment of regulation, requires standard commentary procedures so that everyone involved can apply their objections and legislation is subsequently of good quality and does not cause problems. I also wanted to comment on some of the matters in question that Mr Polčák also mentioned, which mentioned a pre-trial reminder. A pre-trial reminder does not address the situation of people who are in a difficult situation without bad intentions and who are unable to pay their obligations. I'll mention the Prague Transport Company. He sold his claims to a consortium of four companies. The rules were such that, if there were more claims, they sold each other precisely to multiply the costs of the proceedings. I know the example of a lady who took a consumer loan from a bank, lost her job, went to a bank, asked for a payment schedule. This bank laughed at her, sold her claim in two parts, advanced, and paid twice the costs of the proceedings. And it was a serious banking institution. And we can't solve this type of claim because of the immoral overpriced system, except that we will fundamentally reduce the costs of the proceedings. There'd be a lot more topics, but I promised I'd keep the time limit, so that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u75	Mr Polčák and I point out that this is the last performance. After his performance, I'm going to interrupt this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u76	I only have one sentence, I have to respond to it. Yes, you say that this is not your proposal, Minister, through Mr President. However, the factual situation will be as we understand from Mr Tejc's speech that you are thus having the rule of law broken, because Mr Tejc said that you will all vote against the rejection in Komsomolsky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-010-016.u77	Thank you. Okay, but even if I let Mr Pleticha speak, we won't be able to manage the voting process in seven hours. This means that I will interrupt this point in the general debate, with the fact that I am registering Mr Pleticha and Minister Válková's application. The item is therefore adjourned and, in accordance with the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, I am ending today's meeting and interrupting the meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you and have a good evening.
