ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 174/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I would remind you that we are in the first reading and that it is proposed to act in accordance with § 90 para. 2, that means passing the law at first reading. prosit, on behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Before she gets to the counter, I would ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Soňa Marková to take her place at the rapporteur's table. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill designed to compensate for the loss of income from hospitalization regulatory fees for contractual providers of bed-based health services, through an increase in the payment for state insured persons. As you know, the Constitutional Court annulled with effect to 1. 1. 2014 these fees, which represents an annual income loss of approximately 2.1 billion for hospital facilities. Crowns. The proposal put forward by the government is an immediate solution to the acute state of Czech health care, which aims to prevent patients from experiencing worsening of the quality or availability of health services provided. It is no longer possible for health service providers or health insurance companies to cover the loss of revenue from these charges from their reserves, since these reserves are already exhausted due to the long-term underfinancing of the public health insurance scheme. The proposed legislation consists in increasing the monthly payment for state insured persons by CZK 58 from the existing CZK 787 to CZK 845 per person per month. This increase is estimated to bring about 2.1 billion to the public health insurance scheme during 2014. Crowns. Then about 4.2 billion in the next year. Crowns. From the above increase in income, health insurance companies will compensate for the loss of income to their contractual providers in the form of advance payments, whereby the total amount of actual compensation will be realised in 2015, based on data reported to the provider for the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order for compensation to be granted under this proposal to fulfil the intended purpose, it is essential that the law becomes effective on 1 July this year. It is possible to take effect on that date if the proposal is discussed in the first reading. If the first reading of the proposal were not approved, the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the necessary time for the subsequent legislative process can be assumed that the proposal submitted will not be approved until the second half of the year. In such a case, the health services concerned would not receive any significant increase in payment in 2014 and would undoubtedly deepen their already serious economic situation. For reasons of urgency, I therefore ask you to support the procedure proposed by the Government, namely that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the bill in the first reading, as this way it is possible to achieve an increase in payments to bed service providers and to improve the economic situation of these providers already this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u3	I thank Minister Svatopluk Němeček for his opening words and ask that the rapporteur present her word for the first reading of Mrs Soňa Marková. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u4	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice day, Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me add a few details in my report on the proposal under discussion. I welcome the intention of the petitioner to partially level up the critical situation in the public health insurance and health system as a whole. This area has long been under pressure from its financial stability, and this needs to be addressed mainly by systemic changes, which, for understandable reasons, for logical reasons, we cannot look for in this material. House printing 174 is dedicated to compensation of so-called. the regulatory fees to bed care providers, which this income fell by decision of the Constitutional Court for this year. It is not my aim at the moment to repeat the positions of the KSČM and how many times we have opposed the introduction of regulatory fees as such. However, I welcome the efforts of the current government to at least partially remedy the situation. The Ministry is clearly based on the assumptions that compensation for bed care providers is necessary for 2014 and that the only relevant instrument for its financing is a form of increase in contributions for so-called "Bed Care Providers'. State insured persons. Therefore, if we remain within the scope of the material under consideration, the objectives are met. It provides additional resources and also solves the form of their transfers directly to those providers whose income from regulatory fees fell out this year. The material provided provides for the maintenance of an increase in the contribution for state insured persons up to the following years. However, it does not contain a system solution for the future, it does not address the means to compensate for the cancellation of other types of regulatory fees, it does not contain any instrument to offset the amount of the contribution for state insured persons or the amount of the automatic increase in these assessment bases. Discussions over these, but also other systemic measures must certainly be conducted, as it is necessary. The proposal is further based on the fact that the compensation will take place in monthly instalments spread out until the second half of this year related to the 2013 reference period with a factual final statement according to the care actually provided in 2014 in the first half of 2015. Like any reference period, this also hides the risk of partial and temporary disadvantages for those providers who, for example, reduced the provision of bed care in 2013, for example because they wanted to reinvest their income on charges, and also when they were doing reconstruction of their equipment, but I hope that even this objection can be dealt with by delay, that even there will be compensated for what is due to it. The second problematic circuit is the start of compensation. According to the proposal, health insurance companies are to issue 7/12 out of compensation by the end of July. However, the payment system for a state insured person is such that the payment always takes place in the previous month than it is due for. In July, therefore, public health insurance will normally be paid for state insured persons in an increased form for August. The transitional provision will also cover the payment for the month of July, so that, together with the increase in payment for August, an amount equal to the increase for the month of July will be charged to the special account of public health insurance. The entire provision aims to ensure that the increased payment for state insured persons is granted to health insurance companies at the date of the first instalment of compensation for both August and July. However, for health insurance companies, this proposal poses a risk of intervening in their cash flow, as only increased payments for two months will be available when it is required to pay 7/12 of the total amount. However, this risk is not accurately quantified by the petitioner, which makes it impossible to accurately assess its potential risk, which is not immediate, and it can be assumed that insurance companies may be able to cope with it. The last serious point on which I have to comment is the request of the petitioner to discuss a proposal pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that is to say that we agree with the bill at first reading. To this step, the petitioner provides a justification, I note the whole, and I quote precisely: "The reason for the chosen procedure must be compensated for the failure of regulatory fees by the providers of bed health services no later than 31. 7. 2014.'; Our Rules of Procedure clearly allow this procedure and the petitioner has formally complied with all the requirements laid down in the Rules of Procedure for its implementation, but this procedure is intended to be a non-standard procedure and within it the role of the legislature, namely us as the Chamber of Deputies, is still being relegated. [[16.10 hours]] On the other hand, I do not question at the moment that this bill needs this procedure, it is justified that the time frame with which we have to work is simply not possible, I do not admit. In addition, this is a comprehensive partial change which is not systemic in nature and addresses the sector's current critical impact of income loss for bed care providers. I can therefore say for myself once again that I am in favour of the adoption of the proposal under Section 90, but I assume from the petitioner and expect that it will actually complement the proposals for systemic measures in the near future and that they will be discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention. . [[Applause by Members of the KSČM]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Sona Marková, and I am opening a general debate. We will untraditionally begin with a factual remark made by Mr Jiří Štětina, who has applied for the factual comment, then with proper applications by Mr Svoboda, Heger and Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will indeed act as an opposition member this time, but nevertheless very constructive. No one doubts that the financial loss or financial loss of all medical facilities is very significant. I think it's pointless to blame why it's so, how it happened. It is right to replace this, but I would only have one question: If at this time or, respectively, at the last March, it was - and I will now read it directly - these are balances on bank accounts at the end of the current period, including other funds and including reserves of almost CZK 22 billion, I believe that by then health care facilities could have paid off simply the corresponding sums. We all know that about CZK 650 million is leaving every day, so if we count it with normal buyer numbers, I think we should have the money there while we're collecting insurance. I think that the report by Minister Babiš also spoke quite clearly about this. So just this is my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u7	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin and I am sure the Minister will respond in the final words. Now, with proper applications, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, unlike you, Mr President, I Štětina not think that we should now also talk about why this situation has arisen. The so-called hospital hospital hospital regulatory fees are not regulatory fees. It's a food payment. Payment for a diet that one must always spend, whether it's in the hospital or not. The Constitutional Court did not decide that this fee should not be levied. He decided that this must be ensured in a different legal way, and the current government and most of this Chamber of Deputies refused to do so. When we talked about it, we repeatedly said that this problem would occur, that it would be very serious especially for small hospitals, for psychiatric hospitals, for the care of handicapped children, and that it would affect the most needy in our society. Nobody heard of it. I must say that, with a distance of time, Prime Minister Babiš said that this was a mistake. But it's just a populist promise that was made in the elections, and this is an example of how the populist promises are dangerous and harmful to society - because they can't be realized, and when they do, we all lose it. That's why it needs to be said here, because there's gonna be elections again, there's gonna be somebody here who wants to get votes and promise "mountains with hooters," but that's not gonna happen. Then we'll turn out just like we did now. Unfortunately, the situation has arisen, it has occurred, and it is here, and if we do not want to deepen the crisis of the economic crisis of those hospitals - which we have actually caused ourselves - it is no one else, it is us, we sitting here - so we should be looking for a solution. The solution is very difficult, because of course the proposed solution is wrong. It is not systemic, in a way from the means of one part of the insurance company's payment, that is, from the payment of the state, it transfers funds to only one type of provider - hospitals. That's at the limit of what's an unauthorized preference for any of those who work in the health department. A number of these objections have already been said by my colleague Marková, I will not repeat them, but I say again - I am aware that this situation needs to be dealt with in some way and that it will be up to all of us to stand up to it in some way. Nevertheless, I consider this to be so serious that I agree with the proceedings under Section 90, because the application of the veto would only mean a senseless deepening of what we can do. It is not a crisis situation in which it has to be done, it is a situation that we have raised - and that is even worse than what Section 90 gives as a justification for the possibility of discussing in one reading. Thus, with this position and with a fundamental disagreement on how to solve this problem, I have introduced you and I believe that this will have to be resolved differently in the future. If we deal with every economic crisis in health care by unsystemically pouring in money, we will achieve one thing - health will not save, health will expect a hand to reach somewhere again when it gets bad, and in that hand stand or insured people will pour money into it. I would very much like, according to Section 90, to address the issue of funding health through public health insurance for the last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u9	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Now, Mr Leoš Heger, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, honourable Members, this House has heard too much about regulatory fees. So let me just very briefly review what the problem is and why today's opposition is protesting against any charges being abolished. The fees are constitutionally conformal, as the Constitutional Court confirmed with more or less its revenues, the fees regulate, as confirmed by the statistics, the fees are necessary income for health care establishments. As regards the hospitalization fee, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court for its amount, the amendment of the law was prepared and the refund of the overnight hospital fee to CZK 60, but then, after the coalition's agreement, this version was withdrawn and the fee was not renewed. Another argument, of course, is that the cost of food and energy is certainly higher than at least the 60 crowns, no one doubts that. And no one doubts that European statistics, which say that the availability of care is very high in the Czech Republic, are true. It is also true that our participation is very low. [[16.20 hours]] One example of how to make effective use of the hospital fee is that of long-term patients in hospitals. Today the accessibility of treatment beds is better and, of course, the fees partly offset the fact that patients did not lie on the wishes of families in LDN for so long and some families, those who did not want patients before, took them back home. Strangely enough, and this did not sound very much in the past, the fee of CZK 100, then the proposed and then withdrawn CZK 60, today zero - all these versions were significantly lower than the fees paid by the patient in social facilities. I am talking about hospitals, because the overlap between patients who are in long-term care hospitals and patients who are in homes for seniors with a special determination, the spectrum of patients overlaps very much, while the patient pays about CZK 300 a day on average on a social bed, because he has to receive all his pension except for what must remain of the law. The discussion on regulatory fees is difficult. It is difficult because health care, in terms of financial flows and the side of the matter, is a highly tested resort where universal solutions are very difficult to find. The reasons are quite clear and valid in all countries. Medics want to provide more for the good of the patient, patients and their loved ones want to receive care more, often more than is really needed. Things that cannot be individually restricted are unsolvable. If you want examples, for example. it is very difficult to establish a limit where care needs to be reduced, because it is absolutely necessary for patients who are dying. It is very difficult and practically impossible to reduce care in extremely expensive patients. The ranking of the most expensive patients in the Czech Republic was recently published last year and the most expensive patient in the Czech Republic was the relevant health insurance company CZK 40 million per year. Since it was haemophiliac, it is practically impossible to control the treatment of such a patient. The general health insurance budget is limited for such and for various reasons and every additional income, i.e. income from fees, is very welcome. The only solution to regulate health is to regulate it directly by law and across the board. It is known worldwide that no general insurance system is without sustainable regulation and regulation is necessary in the public interest. The most effective regulation is, of course, on the part of providers and their capacity, but regulation on the part of the care recipient, thus direct participation, or in our case regulatory fees, is also confirmed to be working. And by law, as I have already quoted here in the Constitutional Court, regulation is possible. The Constitutional Court confirmed this earlier when it addressed the issue during the period of Minister Julínek, so this was confirmed recently that participation and limitation of care were possible when he commented on the spa decree. In spite of all this, I must say that the abolition of any charge is, of course, legitimate after the elections, and anyone who democratically wins enough votes in this Chamber can take that step. The ČSSD has been preparing for this for many years and is consistent in its views, so democracy is not violated here. It must be said, however, that after many years of effort, when everyone got used to regulatory fees and when they became a strong and welcome income, the coalition insists rather stubbornly and the solution has a pretty populist character. For this reason, the TOP 09 will vote against strengthening the health budget from the state budget, because the coalition has made a mistake here - the fees have been abolished and there is no guarantee of alternative resources. Moreover, with their repeated promises to provide enough money for health care from the state budget, they unlocked the brakes and a typical mechanism of moral hazard was started, with the expectations triggered by the reins of the investigation and now everyone is desperately waiting for the money. All we can say today is that hospitals can't do without them. The TOP 09 will therefore not block the proposal for accelerated reading and will not veto it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u11	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. Now, with proper application, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. I am making new factual remarks, but I have already called on Mr Hovorka, so I apologize. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on 10 December this House refused to discuss the proposal of Minister Holcát, who proposed a regulatory fee for hospitalization of CZK 60 for adults, the exemption of the charge for children and youth under the age of 18. I think it was a fundamental mistake, because today we would only solve half the problem, i.e. missing approximately 1 billion crowns. Nevertheless, the blackout that occurs in hospitals must be replaced by CZK 2.1 billion. Therefore, KDU-ČSL will support this proposal, which is submitted. I have only noted two contradictions in studying this press, which I would like the Minister to explain. One contradiction is that the law concerns regulatory fees, compensation for hospitalization. In fact, he means that in this year about 2.1 billion crowns will be collected in 6 months and in the next year it will be double, i.e. 4.2 billion crowns. If I noticed in his appearance in the media, CZK 2.1 billion is intended to compensate for regulatory fees for outpatient specialists, in general ambulances, practitioners and pharmacies. So that's the first contradiction. Second contradiction: Regulatory fees will be compensated on the basis of the facts of 2013 according to the reported hospitalizations in 2014. In most cases, hospitals are undergoing higher hospitalizations this year. This is due to the fact that regulatory fees have been abolished. So I'm wondering what's going to be decisive, whether the patient status reported last year or this year. [[16.30 hours]] Then I would like to ask: The Minister mentioned in his speech on television that compensation should be made for practical doctors, but did not mention compensation for practical doctors for children and adolescents. And here I would like to point out that the regulatory fee for children's doctors and adolescents was abolished in 2009 and the following ministers who joined then after Minister Julínek - it was Minister Filipiová and after her Minister Jurásková, both of whom equally declared that this blackout would be compensated. I believe that this commitment should also apply to the current Minister that it is not possible to deny what was once promised from the Ministry of Health's soil. On the other hand, I would suspend over compensation for regulatory fees for pharmacies, because I have noted very well that during the years when the regulatory fee was in pharmacies, at least large chains, or even smaller chains of pharmacies did not collect this regulatory fee and, on the contrary, it was a kind of instrument of competition for people who came into these chains. At that time, the law imposed a regulatory fee under the threat of sanctions. So here I think that if these chains were to be compensated, it would be wrong. I would also like to touch on the debate that has taken place over the past two months between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health on possible resources in the health system and in the system of transparency of the system. I'd like to say that the media war that was here suddenly died down. But I think that we must at least continue to discuss increasing the transparency of the system. Because contracts have to be published. Because we know that there are significant inequalities in the contracts between health insurance companies and certain health establishments, that there are so-called. VIP contracts. We know about the back-up bonuses that mean a lot of money in health care. We know that payment mechanisms and the system for creating a list of performances with point values are not completely transparent. So what I'm saying is, in the future, we need to look for the reserves that are in that system, and we need to remove the things that mean that money doesn't go to patients' treatment, but that it disappears somewhere else. In this context, I would like to say that health care really is not a black hole. But only in the sense that at the black hole, we don't know what's going on with the material point in close proximity. He's disappearing, and we don't know what's going on with him. But in the case of health care, we know that the money will disappear from the medical system, but it ends up in private accounts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u13	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now I have two factual points. Even the rapporteur who takes precedence must wait for factual remarks. Mr Igor Nykl now, then Mr Antonín Seďa. I apologize to both of my colleagues for not giving them a chance in front of my colleague Ludvík Hovorka, but it really hit me, blinking before my list came up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u14	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, health care always has a disadvantage: when any relatively clear point is discussed, we get to the whole health system. It was evident in the speakers, when we were suddenly discussing the whole issue of health care. I would like to return it to what the Minister is proposing here today. He wants a completely trivial thing, a fair thing, and it valorizes the payment for the state insured. We know that for four years the payment was extremely low, it was 723 kroner recently. State insured persons are a population that consumes up to 80 per cent of all care. And it's a disgrace to the previous governments that they haven't dealt with this issue properly and haven't increased the payment in a long time. So let's be honest, there's nothing complicated about it, it's a perfectly fair increase in payment, regardless of whether we would change regulatory fees or not. It's basically a separate chapter, and it's nice that this proposal came along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u15	I thank Mr Nykl for his time. Now, with another factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, fellow ministers, I have only two comments. I think it is legitimate that representatives of the right-wing opposition criticize the abolition of charges. But we're discussing another point. It is also a legitimate decision by the current government coalition, which she has made, among other things. cancel these fees until the Government's programming declaration. That's the first point. Second point. You know, the health charge problem, so-called. With regulatory fees, even with the Constitutional Court's decision, you, the previous right-wing governments, have caused little listening, little response to the criticisms of the opposition, and among others. For example, you have also collected fees for children, the deceased, for socially weak. And I think it's only a good thing that these charges are canceled. On the other hand, I understand that if there are a number of problems in health care, we have to solve these problems. And I think the current Minister and the current government are ready to address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u17	Thank you, Mr Antonín Seďa, for keeping time. On the point of fact, now with the rapporteur's priority right, the Minister, too, and then duly signed up by Mr Miroslav Opálka. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u18	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to speak in the debate with a few more comments and responses to what has been said in the debate so far. Firstly, I wanted to remind you that this press is not really about abolishing health charges, but about compensating for these charges, which were abolished by the Constitutional Court. We can talk about fees at a time when we are discussing House press number 125, which proposes the KSČM, to completely abolish all medical fees. So there's certainly an opportunity for those who want to discuss it. I would also like to remind you that, when it was mentioned here about the valorisation of payments for state insured persons, that this was also a pre-election issue, that almost all political parties had long reported to it, and that in the last parliamentary term, precisely on the proposal of the KSČM, this House resolution was adopted on the fact that the then government, the right-wing, coalition ODS, the TOP 09, the Public Affairs and Humanities, was called for to increase the payment, it was accepted, but nevertheless this government did not listen to the call of the Chamber of Deputies. In addition to what has been said here, the fee is not regulatory, but it is income for food in hospitals, as Mr Svoboda has actually said here. Well, there's one thing I'd like to say. It should be noted that it was the ODS, which advocated the introduction of charges and the mouth of the then minister, Mr Julínek, during negotiations at the Constitutional Court, that these are indeed regulatory fees, that they regulate. That is why they have been approved by the Constitutional Court. Because the Constitutional Court believed that these were regulatory charges - one of the reasons why it was approved by the Constitutional Court, that they were therefore constitutional. But I believe that fees have been introduced for completely different reasons. They were introduced to get used to simply paying for health care and care. To realize that this will no longer be about caring for the health of the people, as Law No. 20, but it's about services that are, of course, charged. I think that's why they were introduced. And it really should have been about increasing income from patients because they were taken from that system. Remember that, at the same time as the introduction of fees, the fact that the payments for state insured persons froze, that the richest income had been swamped, that the money had actually been taken from the system and replaced with those fees. So it is important that we continue to realize that this is really about replacing the income of solidarity, public, income from patients' pockets. That's what I think we need to keep in mind. I think that further discussions on fees will follow in discussing our press, so thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u19	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm gonna ask the Minister to be patient because I'm gonna read two apologies first. From the next meeting, Minister Věra Jourová apologizes from 19.15 to the end of the meeting and Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek from 17.30 - both for work reasons. As for the timetable, now with the factual remark of Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then with priority rights Minister Svatopluk Němeček and then Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only touch on the decision of the Constitutional Court, but on the first one in 2008. At that time, the Constitutional Court decided and the opinion of the Constitutional Judges evolved. Although at first it seemed to drop completely, then it turned around and the decision was 8:7 in favour of the fact that the bill was basically found constitutional, but the Constitutional Court said that in the future, if it turns out that regulatory fees are a great burden for hospitalized, it will deal with it again, and that actually happened later last year. I just want to make this right. At that time, we also noted in the discussions that it was often pointed out that if the Constitutional Court canceled this part of the reform or the Act on the stabilisation of public budgets, it would drop the entire reform. This, too, has actually appeared in the discussions surrounding the Constitutional Court's decision-making. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u21	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now Minister Svatopluk Němeček. We are still in the general debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully noted all the comments, the subjects, any questions that have been raised about this debate, and I would like to answer them if I can. First, I will begin with the comments made by the rapporteur, Mrs Marková. There was a reminder that this proposal was, in a way, a solution to the acute situation. That's right. There is a lack of compensation and long-term solution for future years and possible solutions to other charges. That's right. We are the matter that we feel as urgent, which we have inherited, and here I just want to respond a little bit to what has been said here - we are not interrupting hospitalization fees now, we have not canceled them as a government coalition, the Constitutional Court has abolished them with effect to 1. 1. and we have undertaken in the coalition agreement that we will not reintroduce these charges and that we will compensate them for the health care facility. I can't bear responsibility for the fact that last year, eventually some other time, when someone has a different political view of fees, and I respect that, it's legitimate, so it was probably appropriate to resolve the situation differently in some way. Though I think it's right that there are no charges, and I don't think they had a regulatory effect. But I will return to the rapporteur's comments. It was said that there might be a problem in that the advances that will be this year are, according to the reported care for 2013 and the situation could change in 2014. Yes, it's true. However, this is no different from any other way of reporting other care. We wanted to find some relatively simple mechanism that would allow for a quick solution, and in 2015, if it was at a medical facility, and I don't expect there to be many of them, and I don't expect the differences to be fundamental, it will be resolved within a normal due account, as are the terms of the health insurance bill. Another remark that was that it was in a way uneven, that is, in July, medical devices will be given 7/12 and the rest after months. Yes, the cargo will be here, it's one-off for health insurance companies, but it'll be about one billion and something. And we think that in that amount, health insurance companies in cash flow should just deal with it. What Mr. Štětina said here that health insurance companies at some point have up to 20 billion in their accounts. Crowns. It's true. However, there are two arguments to be made here. First of all, the General Health Insurance Corporation and the others have a forward payment in terms of a balanced cash flow, and if we deduct this, they have roughly money for a monthly payment, which I don't think is a dizzy reserve. Secondly, we didn't want to do this sooner because we didn't want to risk the fact that insurance companies really got into some kind of payment problem over the long term and started extending their maturity to medical facilities. What has been said here by Mr Svoboda, I have already partly responded to the fact that we are not interrupting this, but I respect here that the political right will certainly have a different view of regulatory fees than the left. Understanding is quite simple. In the end, it's always paid by a citizen and a taxpayer. If we apply regulatory fees, it will be paid by a sick citizen. If we pay it from the state budget, that's tax, everyone pays it. And we're just keeping the principle that health should be compatible with the sick, but I understand that the opinion will be different, and I don't think I can convince you. Furthermore, it was said that this may be some kind of unauthorized preference for hospitals. I don't think so, because we're just dealing with hospitals here because the Constitutional Court canceled these charges on them, and it's the hospitals that are having income cuts today. Other providers don't have these blackouts. And if this government, this government coalition, is going to cancel these charges, as it is in the coalition agreement, the Ministry of Health is going to present a bill that cancels them in the near future, so we're going to plan to compensate these providers, because in my opinion, it's fair that if political representation makes a decision and withdraws some income, then it should compensate them. To Mr Heger, to claim that fees are regulated and necessary income. I agree with the second claim, that they regulate. When we look at the data, and I looked at the entire time series from the time when these fees were introduced until the Constitutional Court annulled them, they regulated them and had an impact on the consumption of care for the first year to two. After that, the regulatory effect basically stopped working. Although I understand the argument that even at home people have to pay the cost of food, energy and so on, but I think that the 100 crowns abolished by the Constitutional Court are a great burden for a part of people with low incomes that, for example, an older person after a stroke, who had to be in a hospital for several months, would pay 3,000 each month. CZK, for this at home he paid advances on rent, for services, so I am convinced that this was simply a problem in terms of the availability of care. However, I agree that there is a need to plan mechanisms against abuse of care, that there is a need to address the boundaries of health and social care, that rules must be laid down for long-term care. The current administration of the Ministry wants to follow up on the intentions of the previous ones as regards some changes in long-term care, and here we agree. Probably not in fees. To Mr Hovorka, this year it is 2.1 billion. and that is exactly the sum that will be missing from hospitals, and in the next year it is 2.1 plus 2.1 and it is precisely one of the resources that we are planning to use as compensation for outpatient providers if this House and the Senate decide that these charges will be abolished, and we as the Ministry of Health will present this. It was said here that in the past fees for children and adolescents were abolished and not compensated and that the existing ministry should feel bound by the promises of past ministers. In general, I will say that I do not feel bound by the promises of past ministers, because simply the promises of every minister and every government are the promises of this government, but I see with the practical doctors for children and adolescents that there has been some injustice, and within the limits of the possibilities we have, we will try to correct it, even if we have not caused it. [[16.50 hours]] Regulatory fees in pharmacies, and that is that the strings do not collect them and that it is very difficult to discern whether what is shown to be selected in pharmacies is not in real life, it is true... We haven't finished the analysis yet, we're working with the Czech Pharmacy Chamber. At the Ministry, Mr. Deputy Filip is handling this. The moment we have this information and this data, we will certainly present it to this House. I think that everyone in this country already knows that we are trying to increase the transparency of the system, because it has been one of the main media topics recently, and I think it is so good. The general health insurance company has begun to publish contracts, although this means, of course, that not everything is clear that life will show what even informed citizens will be able to obtain from these data, but I think we have gone the right way and that of course we still have a lot of work to do. On the other hand, I must say that I am now unable, even this government, to resolve all the shortcomings, errors and problems of the Czech health sector that have accumulated here over the last twenty years, but we will try to solve at least the most important ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u23	Thank you to Minister Svatopluk Němeček. And now, Mr. Miroslav Opálka. We are still in the general debate at first reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, the Minister has already concluded the discussion and answered the questions, but let me also say a few words. You know, the situation we're talking about isn't a coup. It's a return to something that was here. If so-called regulatory fees have been introduced for Minister Julínek, which are supposedly said not to regulate anything, but, of course, for some, they become a limit for the availability of health care, then I do not know why Mr Julínek was not motivated then, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, where the situation is dealt with in a completely different way by the fact that fees do not go to providers, but by health insurance companies that fees do not apply within 18 years, disability pays a maximum of 1 per cent of income and the other maximum of 2 per cent of income. So if we take it from here, the disabled, like the senior, could pay with an average pension of not more than 12 days and then end up in the hospital. But personally, of course, I think that talking about hotel services or eating was a problem already because the fees were paid for staying at the ICU and ARO, where apparently some patients were unable to even receive food. I am signing up for what has been said here that this is about valorizing the state's charges. And I'm going to give two figures for this fact, not for all health insurance companies, but at least for the General Health Insurance Company, and I hope I don't reveal any classified information. State insured persons under the age of 18 are about 25 per cent and draw 126 per cent of what the State will pay for them. State insured persons over 65 years of age who do not otherwise earn, or who do not work further or who are not self-employed, are 31 %. And from what the state pays, they collect five times - 500 percent. So here you can see, and that seems to be some argument about solidarity, when we are, of course, for income solidarity, that five times already probably exceeds a limit, and we need to settle the situation. From this point of view, I think that we do not need to talk about compensation for hospitals, but about a solid approach in ensuring that, in the context of some solidarity, the State pays at least an adequate amount for the state's insured persons, which they themselves draw from the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u25	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek. That was the last one entered into the debate. I still see Mr. Stanjura. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u26	Thank you. But the case that my previous speaker was talking about just didn't happen. It is not that the government came and said: we should valorize the contribution for state insured people. This resulted in the coalition's decision not to introduce a fee, at the same time decided to cancel other charges, and already in advance for those potentially cancelled charges increases payments in the future. Okay. I'm interested in the whole division thing. How will a particular hospital compensate for the blackout we caused? I already told you today that this is the kind of situation where somebody starts a fire, which was a government coalition, and now it's a big firefight. So first he says, "We're not going to send the money," and now he's talking wisely about compensation for the money she decided not to send. Why not? But the payment for state insurance is just a sum that goes to health insurance companies, and I'm interested in how it's gonna make a man-day out of it. And then I'll have another question. When the Minister answers, I might have a follow-up question. Thank you for your reply if the Minister considers it appropriate to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u27	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. But now I have an application from the chairman of the TOP 09 club, Miroslav Kalousek, and then I record the Minister's application that he is ready to answer. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u28	Thank you for the floor. I thank the Minister for waiting. Maybe he'll respond to my point too. I do not want to repeat the position of the TOP 09 MEP. That's what Mr. Professor Heger presented here in a perfectly competent manner. I was provoked to perform -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u29	Mr President, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u30	You have a lot of authority, Mr. Chairman. I was provoked to perform by a contribution from my colleague Opálka, who expressed the belief that it was immoral from the former coalition so that parents would pay a regulatory fee in the case of child care under the age of 18. I'm asking the question, who's going to pay for it? And I think that the position of the KSČM club is very hard on antisocial. He says: We refuse to let parents pay the child's regulatory fee. We insist those kids borrow it. If we look at the fiscal strategy of the government of the Czech Republic, there is no doubt that the structural deficit is increasing, that the deficit in the pension account is increasing, and that the pressure on the deficit of public health insurance companies is increasing, which will be your step today in a leap and for a while, by moving money from one pocket to another, because both the state budget and public health insurance are just segments of that large set of public budgets. So from the state budget, which we fund deficitly on long-term bonds, which will have to pay off those kids that are being born now, we're going to pay off those public health insurance companies. I'm just trying to figure out what you're promoting. You reject a situation where a parent responsible for his child and his health will pay a regulatory fee for him - you do not want that! - and you insist that the baby borrow it, and when he's grown up, he'll pay for it. That's the way it is, please. And if you get acquainted with the process of financing the debt service and the state cash flow, you can't blame me for that. Okay. That's legitimate, that's a legitimate political position. You don't want existing parents to pay for it, because they have the right to vote, and you prefer to borrow the newborns because they don't have the right to vote. And when the newborns have the right to vote, you won't be running again. It's legitimate, it's pragmatic political reasoning, but I think it needs to be said that way. [[17,00 hours]] And it also needs to be said that if we want to maintain the absolutely exceptional and unique public health care that the Czech Republic has, we will not be able to keep it, whether we like it or not, without gradually increasing participation. There is such statistics that the smaller the participation, for example in Romania, the smaller the public health care available to all. The higher participation, the higher and better health care - with the exception of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic has very low participation and absolutely exceptional and high public health care, because the costs and problems of financing this exceptionally high quality health care are mainly passed on to health personnel' shoulders and their miserable conditions and their miserable salaries. And that's not gonna last forever. If we insist that we continue to have the highest quality health care, and I wish we would, and at the same time we will not increase our participation, then we only have two options. Either we get into a deficit trap, or we start reducing the quality of care. Both are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u31	Now, Mr Miroslav Opálka, with a factual remark and then duly signed up with priority rights, Minister Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to tell my colleague Kalousek by your means that the 180 - well, I will say so, almost two trillion debts that our state has drawn have certainly not caused people under the age of 18 who have not been paid for. That's just the result of how the previous governments ruled for 25 years. But we're sticking to a constitutional law that says health care is covered by public health insurance. Nothing more, nothing less, and that is also a bill that we will discuss later. And as for the 18-year-olds. I don't know if you heard me well, but I was talking about an example that I don't know why Exministri Julínek didn't take an example from the Federal Republic of Germany, where nothing is paid under the age of 18, disability pays up to a maximum of 1 per cent of income and others up to a maximum of 2 per cent of income. I'm not going to go into this by segment, because the hospital pays differently, otherwise, with practical doctors - every quarter of a year, and it doesn't matter if you visit it once or twenty times. But that's not the point. The important thing is that we stick to the constitutional law, and if it worked for Julínek, it could work after Julínek. All we have to do is find out where the black holes are and the fact that we pay 70 to 80 billion thanks to previous governments. debt services per year, which is basically our deficit, and we're not even able to repay the principal. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u33	Thank you for keeping time. But I'll ask the minister to wait. I have two factual points - Mr Kalousek and Mr Svoboda. prosit, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u34	I apologise, Mr President, but now I have to look back. It's not true that I didn't blame Minister Julínek. I have always blamed Minister Julínek for not taking an example from the Federal Republic of Germany, for there the participation of patients is between 22 and 24 percent, while in our country between 17 and 18 percent - a fundamental mistake that the Minister and we, along with him, did not have the courage and to which our public health care will one day pay. Yes, I blamed him for promoting too little involvement, and thus based on a problem. If you blame previous governments for such a high debt and the deficit associated with it, why in God's name do you support the steps leading to its deepening? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u35	I thank Mr Kalousek for his time. Now, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. And another factual point by Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I would like to make a fundamental point. If we talk about the fact that there is no participation, we also need to talk about whether it has an economic impact. And he certainly has it. And I ask all the left-wing parties why they don't talk about the subject: regulatory fees, yes, but to make them socially sensitive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u37	Thank you. Now Mr. Miroslav Opálka, then finally Minister Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u38	Thank you. I think we have general health insurance here. It's done by earnings, or at least there's social welfare, and if that's not enough, let's see if we can increase the general health insurance by half a percentage point. That makes sense, of course. But the Constitution speaks the way it speaks, and we stick to it. So from this point of view, I think it's obvious. As far as the German model is concerned, of course, we would have to look at the situation in a very different way, also according to income such as these, and comparable income, etc. But what I'm saying is, we can't solve a state budget or debt service or debt here. We'll figure it out where the huge billions are coming from! If we're talking about 150 billion coming out because of corruption, it's a completely different kind of coffee that somebody has introduced here, and it's begging this state, including health care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u39	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek for his time. Now Minister Svatopluk Němeček. We are still in the general debate. That's the ambition I should have ended! I haven't done it yet. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been called upon by President Stanjura to explain the specific mechanism which the law contains, in fact, how the funds for the cancelled fees to the specific hospitals, which from 1. 1. They're losing them. Even if hospitals collected these fees from patients, they were obliged to report to health insurance companies during the previous period. This means health insurance companies have an obligation to report these insurance companies in 2013 and insurance companies have an accurate record of the amount of such fees to be paid to each health institution. We want to make use of this mechanism, and similarly as normal care is financed on the basis of the results of the previous year, so this year we want to essentially allocate by so-called advances the amount of funds they collected last year, which corresponds to roughly the number of treated patients, to individual hospitals, with hospitals continuing to report visits to hospitalized patients, and in 2015 on the basis of what they will report, insurance companies will correct it in the same way as other types of care according to actual results, actual declared beds, and either pay the hospital back or bring down the diseases when the bedding is less. I would also like to respond to the words of President Kalousek. Here you can say it's a classic left-right clash. I have already understood that I am not going to convince the President that the abolition of regulatory fees is the right thing to do, although I am deeply convinced of it, but I do have to turn against a little bit here, in my opinion, a very simplified argument that countries with good health have greater participation and vice versa. I think we could find a lot of countries that have very bad health care and very high access, and on the contrary, I don't think this line can be dragged around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u41	Thank you, Minister. And now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u42	Thank you for the floor. I thought it was like the Minister said, and I wanted it to come out of his mouth, not mine. He just forgot to mention the amount. It's a hundred crowns a day they'll be refunded. So let's describe what happened. The left-wing parties attacked that a hundred crowns a day is disproportionately high. The reality of the government coalition says it's a reasonable amount that hospitals need so much and would need even more. When you talk to hospital directors, they say that even a hundred crowns isn't enough. I don't believe it's pure coincidence that the 100 crowns. Either it's comforting that it was a hundred before the Constitutional Court broke it off, so we're going to give it another hundred, so it's just going to be replaced by a group of taxpayers who are going to pay for it. That's all that's gonna happen. And I think it is important to talk about the involvement of patients and their percentage, and it is important to say that, when the government Members are so fond of lashing out in particular with Brusel, the European Union, the Minister could tell you which position we are in in in terms of the level of participation within the European Union, whether we are not running on other continents and not examining whether health care is higher or worse on other continents where there is higher or lower participation. And then I want to make one comment. In politics, when you vote, you're either in or out. It can't be at the same time. And I went to the budget committee last week, where the finance minister, the boss and the owner of your movement, said, "I am against medical fees, but I will vote in favour." The Constitution says we can vote on our own terms. I also learned last week, the Minister of Finance said: "I am against the third rate of VAT," there were many members of the budget committee and the public there, "but I am introducing it." So I just want to remind you that everyone can vote as they please. And who's really against it can show it. He can't say "I'm against it and I'm voting for it." That doesn't really work. This applies before the vote. At the moment of the vote, the YES movement is either in favour or against. He can't say "we're against it and we voted in favour." Of course, they can say that, but the junk will make it clear whether they're for or against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u43	I thank Mr Stanjur. He made another wave of factual remarks. Before I pass the proceedings on to the meeting, I will announce the order of actual remarks. Mr Miroslav Kalousek with a factual remark, Mr Rom Kostřica with a factual remark, Mrs Marková with a factual remark and Mr Petr Bendl with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u44	Thank you. Mr Stanjur, your attack against Andrea Babiš was unfair because he never specified whether he was speaking as the owner of Agrofert or as the owner of the YES. Always ask him that. He has a permanent conflict of interest there, so he always has to say something different. However, Minister, I'm talking about the statistics. When I was talking about the amount of participation and the amount of care, I meant the countries of the European Union and I ask that we do the statistics within the European Union. I agree that Cuba needs to be different, but please don't compare us to Cuba. I might as well say that in the United States, which is certainly a civilised country, compulsory health insurance recently introduced by President Obama is perceived as a leftist, almost communist measure, while the right does not want any public compulsory health insurance, which is a mile away from European understanding. That's what I'd like to conclude. When you said it was a classic clash between the left and the right, I don't think so. This may be understood in Europe, but it is a classic clash between common sense and merchant numbers on the one hand and populism and the feeling of unlimited resources on the other. God be with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u45	Thank you. Mr. Kostřica's microphone, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u46	Thank you for the floor. I just want to go back to the need for regulatory fees. I am here building on the Minister's conviction that regulatory fees are not appropriate and I would like to say one more aspect. Regulatory fees for outpatient doctors, I submit, I don't have, and I've never had a private practice, but I know outpatients from the hospital as such, so you know there's certainly a lot of people who, if they don't have exactly what to do, say, I haven't been to the doctor in a long time, so they go there, I'll see if there's anything. There are not many such people, but of course they exist. Anyone who works in outpatient traffic will confirm it, and you certainly know it, Minister through Madam President, that on the days when they are rainy, ugly, the ambulances are much more full than when May's warm days are pleasant, when potential patients have other activities. The problem is, not only is it the 30 crowns, but the patient's doctor, I don't want to say the word "simulant," but let's say agravant, he has to examine him, and of course he's going to give the insurance company at least the code that matches the examination. And that's where I think there's quite a big financial loss, because it's not just that he's just going to get the job done as such, but he has to and will, of course, test it, which the insurance company will then pay. And I believe that then a whole range of medical resources will be drained not only to compensate for the 30 crowns per facility or other fee, but to report these points to an insurance company that would not have to be declared. And unfortunately, then there will be a reduction in funds that could be spent on a much more effective and necessary form of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to Mrs. Marková's speaking desk. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond here to what has fallen here about the involvement of patients, because as part of the gunfight that took place here, whether the left, right, social or social, I would like to point out that the patient for whom the solidarity public health here should be, that these patients and all the citizens of the Czech Republic who work pay a health tax of 13.5%, that is to say, they contribute to the public health insurance, and that the amount of the participation is also a relative number, because we have some 16,6 percent calculated here, but that is the average. It's divided between all people and there's a difference, for some it's a hundred crowns a lot, for some it's a hundred crowns something that can't be overcome. Everyone paid the same fees in the sense that it was the principle of collective guilt. All were charged, whether they were sick people, chronically ill, whether they were disabled, whether they were people with very low incomes, just fall for who. That's why you can't assume that there's an average number here. When you have an 8,000 pension, it is different from when you have many times as a Member and a Member's salary. So please don't forget, in that coalition opposition shootout, that we're talking about patients, people who need medical attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u49	Thank you, and please, to Mr Bendl's speaking desk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I originally did not want to speak on this subject at all, but I was provoked by the reply of the Minister to the President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, Mr Stanjur, who asked him what technique or how he wanted to get the funds into those health establishments. And I didn't hear the answer. I heard how that number was going to happen. He's gonna take the reference period, give them some backup, and then send money to hospitals next year against visits. But how? Docs? Like I'm gonna find out the number, send them a donation? Or do I make it a special decree that says, "How many medical devices are supposed to get?" Aren't you worried, Minister, about the so-called unauthorized support? Because the statute that you're basically going to be sending this subsidy money is going to have some of your regs. That's one point. Then there's Margo, Mrs. Marková, who was talking about how they all work and they have 13.5%. I'd just like to point out that everyone doesn't work. We don't give to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment with the facts is Mr. Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u52	Yes, that is - through you, Madam President to colleague Marková - that is what I am saying. We've already had all these things covered. There was a value that didn't pay more in that year, the volume of funds was limited in time. That's what I'm saying. Let's not talk about the fact that regulatory fees are not supposed to be that the payment per day is not supposed to be in the hospital because they have a clearly positive effect. These days, patients don't want to leave the hospital anymore. Because they don't have to pay, so they stay there. Let's talk about what other aspects will be that we will regulate these payments in the context of social sensitivity, as is the case in Germany, for example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u53	Thank you. With another de facto Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u54	I'm so sorry, but the limits that were set didn't really work when they were at 5,000. Not at all. It didn't affect almost any patients. When they were reduced, after all, a few patients were affected. However, the total amounts that will fit the limits are still falling lately. Plus, there's one more thing I'd like to point out. These limits did not include fees other than those of the 30 crowns. All other charges were not included in the limit, so they were not actually part of the limit. And on top of that -- the supplements for the drugs, too -- just for the ones -- actually, the supplement at the lowest price, that means it wasn't even the actual payments. So please, let's not lie here and say things that aren't true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u55	Thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit. I still have a factual remark from Mr Votava. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would only respond to my colleague Svoboda, who said, at least if I noted it so well, that if hospital fees are cancelled, of course the patient is very happy to stay there. I think, of course, how long he'll be hospitalized in the hospital is the doctor's decision, not the patient's.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u57	Thank you, honourable Member. Another is Mr Mackovík and then Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a rather large debate here on the subject of charges. I would like to say a few essential things. There has been overuse or abuse of care, for example, by practical doctors. Then I have to ask if the general practitioner, when a patient comes to him, whom he then calls an over-user of health care, will then give him some kind of diagnosis that he's going to give to the health insurance company. So if the error happens to be not with the practitioners, too, because I would like to see for the time when the fees were paid, how many patients were expelled from the office, that care was abused and abused. Next thing. I can't imagine that an unborn child should pay a fee or that his parents or a child should pay it in some way when the right tells us that the charges are regulatory. We regulate the unborn child against what? We're already putting him in the pre-emptive phase of abuse or overuse of health care? We can't say once they're regulatory fees, then say we're regulating them, or replace food in hospitals. Let's get this straight. The last thing I want to say: Fees should be abolished all over the country, because only early elections prevented the fees from being even higher, which means not 60 and 100 crowns, but much higher. And I can't imagine a pensioner with the income they have now would be able to pay, like, $500 for a day's stay at a medical facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u59	Thank you and please to Mr. Plzák's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u60	Good evening, Madam President, colleagues. I'd just like to correct my colleague Votava. As a doctor who actually works at that hospital, I have to say, he's really wrong. There is regulation not so much on the part of the patient, whom the doctor would possibly let into home care in the elderly, but it is a matter of background that he does not have. I can tell you that, after all, there was some regulation that worked, that if a patient or family paid his fees, it was an effort to create a background much faster than when nothing was paying now. That's one thing. The second thing is, when it was mentioned here that all charges would be abolished, so I hope that often at a time when we see the abuse of first aid medical services and constitutional emergency services, we will not cancel the charges for these services in the future. Third thing. We're talking about a fee, whether we call it a fee for hotel services, for food, or for regulation, which - and I have to tell you this, because I see these people in the hospital, in my ambulance - is perceived or was perceived as the least controversial charge. People understood this fee, they knew that at home they would also have to drown, that they also ate, that they were solidarity with people, that they were contributing to their health care, they understood that, and everyone was in agreement with it, but of course they understood that they didn't have to contribute to everyone's food and heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u61	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit. Mr Svoboda, then Mr Bendl and then Mr Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me to address a colleague of Votava through you. Every man is convinced that he understands driving, that he drives best. In the same way, everyone is convinced that they understand health care. I'd just like to point out that if the patient tells you that his heart hurts again in the morning and that he had a tremor at night, you just don't release him that day, you have to examine him, find out that nothing happened. It costs more and more money. Hospitalization he can stretch out for a whole series of days. Unfortunately, that's a fact. And I would like to thank your colleague Marková for supporting my words. Yes, I'm not resisting the fact that we can say that the limit is lower. I am not resisting the fact that we can say that only the first visit to the doctor is burdened with payment when the doctor orders him that it is not burdened with payment, but let's talk about it! Let's not empty the baby with the bathtub. Because if the possibility of regulation isn't there, it's just not gonna work. This is a wisdom that the whole world already knows with the exception of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u63	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Bendl, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u64	Thank you. I was going to add that - let's not throw the problem at the physician. They do what they're meant to do. They heal people and they can't say to them ahead of time, "Hey, go away, because you're not supposed to be here." Whoever can regulate himself a little bit, if he's going there with the fact that he wants to take two or three days off, or if he's going there with the fact that he's really hurting, he's the patient himself. Obviously, we're different from the charges in that one says, well, that one has, in a simple way, lunch, the fee, every taxpayer pays to the patient in question. We say not everyone, that whoever goes to be treated for it should pay extra for it, for the lunch, or for what is connected to the accommodation, or if you want to be hospitalized. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jakubčík's speaking desk, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u66	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, in a medium-sized hospital in 2012, the average treatment period was five and a half days; in 2013, the average treatment period was 5.4 days; this year the average treatment period is 3.2 days. Do regulatory fees affect this decline? Yes or no? I'd say so. And it affects not only regulatory fees, but also doctors' access. What Professor Svoboda said here - yes, I agree. But these are absolutely individual cases. Let's look at this systemically, let's look at it statistically. It's always the doctor who decides how long the patient will be in the hospital. It's never a patient's decision. Never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u67	Thank you, Mr Member, and please, with another Mr Janulík in fact, and then Mr Kostřica.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u68	Hello, Madam President, fellow Members. I'm just a little bit de facto. Please, all of you who feel like you can say something about it, to us who do it every day and meet it every day, don't tell us about how it is or isn't, because it's very ridiculous. We, too, as doctors, do not comment on the construction of Temelín, so please do not comment on health issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u69	I thank the honourable Member and I would like to see Mr Kostřica's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u70	Thank you for the floor. I am here to respond to Mr Plzák's speech. I am, of course, a huge fan of regulatory fees for emergency services, their abuse. But there's one thing. Please note, such a matter, that the patient whose nose is bleeding - it's not his fault if it's morning, or if it's at three o'clock at night. I am so glad that the regulatory fees will solve the fact that people used to wash their ears out at two o'clock at night because there were few people, but on the other hand, the doctor should be able to actually judge whether or not it was justified. And I think that for some retired people, maybe 90 crowns to get a treatment, I'm saying, for example, the nosebleed that happens mostly at night, it's a little unconvincing. Therefore, I think that Professor Svoboda's opinion that we should regulate those fees in a social sensible way is very appropriate and, of course, would require a longer discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u71	Thank you and I also have Mr Koskuba, Mr Svoboda, and then Mr Kalousek. Mr Koskuba to the microphone, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u72	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speaker has told you well, and I don't want to keep you here by what it really looks like in practice. Anyway, you'd be surprised where I belong. Let's not throw party stickers at each other. But at the previous point, or at the opening point, you were very attached to what this point is called. Ladies and gentlemen, this item is called the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. There's nothing about the charges being introduced, they're jamming. This is an increase in payments, and I beg you, let us close this point, and when we are finally discussing the friendly concept of Czech health, I am happy to participate in the discussion, I will be happy to show you from my point of view what it really looks like in practice, because not everyone has a patent on reason. There's been a lot of naive fantasies, there's been a lot of wise suggestions, and I'll say across the political spectrum, but we're discussing a completely, completely different point. And I would ask that we get some sense and close this point, because the debt and inflation for state insured people are such that those payments deserve the health care, no matter what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u73	I thank the honourable Member and ask whether this is a procedural proposal and wants to put to a vote on this proposal, or it was merely a challenge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u74	Madam Vice-President, thank you. I'd hate to wake up another storm and some invectors from people I didn't expect, but if you take it that way, yes, I'll allow myself to make a procedural motion for an end - but I don't think that's possible. I have only called upon the House, if you consider that this is possible, I will do so, I would like to move, but I fear that the Member has no right to terminate the House's debate. I'm sorry. But if anything's changed, I'd be happy to approach it and suggest it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u75	You're right, I agree with you, so we continue to make factual remarks. Mr. Svoboda's microphone, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u76	Maybe for the last time. First, just one funny thing. There's a lot of doctors here. The proposal to end the discussion may be put at the assembly of the medical chamber, which shall be put to the vote. Here, even though there are a lot of us here, it's not a medical chamber convention, and there's no way you can give such a suggestion. I think that although it has been said that the subject is different, the subject is exactly what we are talking about. We are talking about the insurance amendment, and therefore we are talking about how we will be able to provide this care financially. I really believe that all the words that say that regulation is useless are words that have no experience with medicine. I've been in the health care world for over 50 years since I got out of school and worked as a caretaker at the hospital. Believe me, I know what I'm saying. You're not firing a patient. You can't do this. A patient with no background is impenetrable. Operated patients who cannot be fired accumulate on orthopedics. And what we're doing right now, it's just going to reboot this situation and reboot it. Anyone who shakes their head at this point has never worked at a hospital, never did. Believe me, I really know what I'm saying. I say that with 50 years of life experience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to Mr. Kalousek's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u78	I am very sorry to delay, but I have to respond to Mr Janulík's speech, which said: we are talking about health, so who are not doctors here, don't talk about health, we are not talking about nuclear energy. I would like to remind the Chamber of Deputies that we are not talking about a cardiovascular system or an ectopic pregnancy, none of us would dare to speak of course. We're talking about public insurance systems, that's not being taught at medical schools, and the problem is a little different. Just as when we talk about nuclear energy, we won't talk about plutonium fragmentation, but about the return on such expensive investment and energy security, which is also not taught at the relevant Faculty of Nuclear Energy. I'm really asking that we be able to look at the problem with the optics that belong to us, not the optics of the profession. If doktor Janulík were right, then the greatest stallion and perhaps the good opponent of this proposal to the government was not the Minister of Finance, who I doubt would be a gynecologist or an intern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u79	I thank the honourable Member and please refer to Mr Stanjura's microphone. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u80	Thank you for the floor. First, Madam Vice-President, to you, I do not know by what means. I really don't think it's possible to be creative in managing a meeting. Trying to let you vote on ending the debate as a governing meeting, I don't know what I'd call it. We got you out of trouble last week by taking a break, but we can't do it every time, because then we'll be accused of not wanting to work. It's really not possible. But that's not why I applied. My honourable fellow Member says that we non-medical workers should not talk about it. But we're patients, right? As my friend the doctor says: there is no such thing as a healthy person, the most poorly examined patient. So we're talking about whether the $2 billion that comes into the system for six months this year, and the $4 billion next year wouldn't find a better use in health care than paying for hotel services. That is what the debate is about, and it fully corresponds to the name of this point. [[17.40 hours]] You know very well that, as opposition, we have not used our ability to block a short hearing, because we understand that the fire you have caused needs to be put out, but we think that if we want to add two or four billion a year to the system, there are simply better targets in the entire health system for us, for patients who will help us more than paying 60, 80 or 100 crowns a day for staying in a hospital. And that's it, that's what we're debating. And I apologize to all the doctors present. It wasn't us who, as opposition, dragged the debate into the one who was releasing the patient and that the doctor would release him or not. That's what some others, government MPs, are talking about. It wasn't opposition. But from the experience I have as a patient, it's just a fairy tale that a doctor decides and always leaves the hospital. It really doesn't work that way. It may work in the kitchen, but it doesn't work in normal patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u81	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Bendl's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u82	I only wanted technical support for those of you who feel that we are discussing something that is essential and regarding the future of health care, so I would like to refer you all to a seminar on the subject of the Chamber of Deputies on "Where is the Czech Health?" - or something like that - we graduated. And from the coalition MPs except for the chairman of the health committee, I believe there was one person. To see how important this is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u83	Thank you. Given that I have no one else entered into the general debate... Mr Plzák's factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u84	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I actually just remembered that when the conference was, I was in surgery. Now I don't know what was more useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u85	Thank you. Since I no longer have anyone enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I wonder if you are interested in the final words - the plaintiff? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because I think I have made most of the comments here. I want to thank the House for the immensely inspiring and, I think, a sophisticated debate. And I suppose, at the moment we submit a bill that really cancels regulatory fees, I think now in the outpatient sphere, I might already know how to respond to some of the arguments even better. However, I want to remind you of what has been said here. This bill does not interfere with regulatory fees. This draft law addresses the crisis situation in which the Czech hospital was in due to a loss of income caused by the fact that regulatory fees are no longer collected from 1 January by the Constitutional Court's decision. And I would very much like to ask this House to take this into account in its decision-making and voting, let's say the urgency of this to help Czech hospitals. I will only perhaps respond to one comment by Mr Bendl - how the revenues will arrive. In essence, this law introduces a single amendment in the transitional provisions, namely that the basically declared beds will operate in the short term as essentially a performance payment, they will be treated in the same way by insurance companies and providers and in the same way they will be declared. So this technical solution is solved and I would very much ask and strongly urge this House to approve the proposal at first reading from the point of view of the time situation in which Czech hospitals are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u87	I thank the Minister and ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the final words. This is the case, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u88	Thank you for the floor, just a brief summary. There were 14 Members and one Member in the debate, which was very stimulating. Some performed repeatedly. And I would just like to conclude by saying that, quite as an opposition Member, I was surprised by some acts of coalition Members against the meaning of this bill. Nevertheless, I personally recommend that we adopt this very necessary law, because in past years, in previous years, when those who have now called themselves a protector here have actually cost the Czech health system 30 billion. Crowns. Let's give them some of that money back to the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u89	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I shall make a motion for a resolution. Before I do, I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. Now the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 174 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' There's a check-out request, I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards again. Thank you. I am now opening the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Initiating the vote now and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is the 69-order vote, with 162 Members registered, of which 131 is against 2. The motion was accepted. That is why I am now initiating a detailed debate in which I have no applications yet, but I have here a factual remark by Mr Farský. Wrong? So he's canceling this note. Mr Kalousek. I ask whether it is a debate or a factual one. With priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u90	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, I am sorry to do so in a detailed debate, but the regime under Section 90, which we did not want to veto, leaves me no choice but to respond to the speech of the rapporteur, who has spoken here as an opposition Member, with the fact that she approached some coalition MPs with the wonder that they have doubts. Madam opposition rapporteur, you are so sharp and slutty of the opposition that I have not experienced it in the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u91	Since I have no one in the detailed debate, I conclude the detailed debate and ask the appellant and the rapporteur whether they are interested in the final words. It's not like that. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House Press 174." Initiating vote on the proposal tabled. Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 70, to which 167 Members are enrolled, of which 132 have been voted in favour, against 35. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. [[17.50 hours]] We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Health. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. Mr Stanjura. [[Big noise in the whole hall]] . I'm sorry, I take it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u92	I have a message for the Vice-President that we've already approved it, so I don't think we have to do this to the committee anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u93	I'm sorry, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u94	That's all. I just wanted to let the Vice-President know that we've already passed the law. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u95	Yes, I'm sorry. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u96	Madam Vice-President, please allow me to make a polite question to you. Would you please be willing to accept the position of Honorary Vice-President of the House with the maintenance of all pleasures, excluding the duty to manage the Chamber of Deputies meeting? . [[Laughs throughout the hall, applause for many Members]] If you were willing to accept such a function, I would very much like to process an accelerated amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which would help us all in our work. We'd really like to work. But that's not an exception, you just can't drive the House. You're repeatedly demonstrating this. I beg you to think about my proposal. It's an honor for all of us to be represented as our Vice-President, but none of us can stand it when you run the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u97	Really, Mr. Ploc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u98	Madam President, I only have a cross for the same record - I have a cross on high, and I voted yes. [[correct: screen recording]] I'm not questioning the vote, but just for the same record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u99	Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u100	I know it's not quite easy, but I wonder how Mr Ploc got the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. If you don't mind, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break, and I'm gonna make sure I don't complicate your difficult parliamentary life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats so that we can continue our negotiations. Before that, I'll read the apology from today's meeting. Mr Čihák apologizes from 18.30 to 23.00 for personal reasons, for working reasons Mr Lobkowicz apologises for today's meeting from 19.15 Mr Daniel Herman and between 19.00 and 2345 for working reasons Mr Leoš Heger apologizes. [[It's a long break. It's busy in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the negotiations, I want to thank you for your understanding, and I want to apologise and give the truth to Mr Stanjur. Mr Ploc should not have been given room, he cannot question the vote at such a time-limit, he can read into the screen record that he voted differently than he showed the voting device. I'm asking him if he wants to do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u103	Madam President, thank you for the floor. If you'd listened to me carefully, I didn't question the vote, but only for the same record when I voted yes, and I had a cross at the junk. I stressed that I am not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u104	Well, I'm sorry. In that case, we misunderstood. Please, Mr Kalousek, who is claiming the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u105	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Just for the record, you and the entire Chamber of Deputies: The Rules of Procedure Act or any custom - even I would like to honor it - neither law nor custom entitles you to declare a quarter-hour break just because you feel confused at that moment. On the contrary, the law clearly states that the moment you shut down the voting device and get out of your chair, the meeting is over. Which you did. I am telling this to the Chamber of Deputies for the sake of order. I don't insist. I'd love to keep working, but you're done with your own ignorance and incompetence. And any one of us here raises this objection will be relevant. We have no right to continue, just to agree that we haven't seen it and that we will continue and work. I just want to point out, Madam Vice-President, that this might be tolerated at the first meeting, but if after four months in your office you are unable to manage the meeting and are unable to handle the elementary axioms of the Rules of Procedure, really consider whether you want to accept my offer. I think it would be nice to have an honest president without having to run a meeting, and we'd all be rooting for you in that representation if you promised us that you wouldn't be running us anymore. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Because otherwise, it would be hard for us to understand that - see YES - you know how to do it and that it will be better. We'd like to work quite normally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-003-020.u106	With a point of fact... I'm afraid there's nothing to do at the moment, Mr. Ambassador, because we haven't opened a point. We will continue our negotiations, which is the point
