ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u1	48. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 156/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as press 156/1. On the Senate's authority, Senator Jaroslav Zeman will present the bill, whom I welcome here, and I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, let me present to you on behalf of the Senate a proposal to amend Act 111/2006 Coll., on aid in material distress concerning the public service. The proposal is submitted with the aim of adapting the Institute of Public Service in accordance with the founding of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic so that it can be used again by persons in material distress and persons kept in the register of job seekers under comparable rules that were set before the effectiveness of social reform. To this effect, that is to 1. 1. 2012, our legal order allowed the application of the Public Service Institute for three years without calling into question its constitutionality. The Institute of Public Service is still enshrined in the current legal order and its organization was evaluated very positively by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic in 2012. Therefore, there is no need to adjust anything from the point of view of its management. What is important to adjust is the re-enforcement of the motivational component of persons in material distress and the incorporation into the system of assistance in material distress by assessing the active efforts of a person to find employment and, among other things, to include the performance of the public service in the range of at least 20 or 30 hours per month, as was the case before. The principle of assessing this activity will remain preserved, as it was in the past and as it is today in connection with the application of claims and claims or the use of property. This means that the amount of living will gradually increase by a specified percentage difference between the life and the existential minimum. The adaptation of the evaluation of its own activities and the Public Service Institute will thus serve to a greater extent to motivate people in material need to find employment, to preserve it, their working skills and skills, and not just to remain passively at benefits in aid in material distress. This is directly a proposal whereby persons who receive a subsistence allowance for more than six months and are not active, i.e. they do not perform public service, volunteer service, short-term employment, and so on, will have the amount of living at the level of the existential minimum. However, this measure shall not apply to persons who have reasonable obstacles to work. These include, for example, persons over 68 years of age, old-age pensioners, disabled persons at second and third levels of invalidity, persons entitled to unemployment benefit or not qualifying for parental allowance, persons caring for dependants on care allowance and so on. This means that if a person is active after six months of receiving a living allowance, the amount of a living will be increased by 40 per cent of the difference between the life and the existential minimum. A further increase of 30 per cent in the amount of the difference between the living and the existential minimum will be obtained by a person if he does not have to apply any claims and claims or applies them, the same increase will occur again by 30 per cent in the evaluation of the assets. In sum, therefore, the amount of the person's livelihood can climb to the minimum of her life, which is one of the principles of material need since her introduction. If a person performs a public or voluntary service of 30 hours per month, the amount of his or her living may be increased by half the difference between the minimum living and the minimum existential, that is, CZK 650, which means that he or she can get the amount above the minimum living. Furthermore, in this amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, in view of the current overall situation on the labour market and taking into account the difficult employment of persons receiving pension insurance benefits, we propose to introduce measures that are already in place, for example, for sickness insurance benefits, to count pension insurance benefits only in part and 80% respectively. This measure will affect positively mostly lonely pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Basically, it can be simply said that the public service is contained in the law, but the interest is zero, since there is neither a penalty nor a reward for performing it. But the public service is one of the measures to combat social exclusion. It is based on the principle that every person who works must be better off than the person who doesn't work or avoids work. The system of assistance in material distress currently does not respond to the activity of persons, or it is completely irrelevant whether a person in material distress works or not, because the dose is provided at the same level. It can therefore be assumed that, if the proposed measures are not implemented in the amendment, there may be a further deepening of the dependence of people on benefits or a loss of ability to restore skills and social ties. Another, not entirely negligible risk, can also be a negative social attitude toward people who are passively avoiding work. Dear colleagues, I have presented the sense of the proposed proposal, which focuses on good practice, which has been positively assessed before the effectiveness of social reform, and also responds to the finding of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, and thus preserves the fundamental pillars for the activity of persons in material distress to be bonified in some way in order to preserve material security. I would like to ask you, for the petitioner, to refer this proposal to the committee, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u3	Thank you, Senator. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, a few apologies. Minister Herman from 18.45 for ministerial reasons, Minister of Transport for today's meeting from 18.30 for working reasons and for tomorrow morning also for working reasons. And Mr. Havíř for today's meeting from 7:00 p.m. for work reasons. So many more apologies. I ask Mrs Markéta Adamová, who has already taken up the position of speaker, to take up her role as rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would, therefore, briefly follow up on my colleague. As regards the amendment of Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, so it really primarily regulates the public service institute, which is underused in practice by the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, and it is therefore assumed that the main reason is that the person involved in the public service is not sufficiently motivated, which is what this regulation wants to change. It aims to modify the rest of the public service legislation in order to comply with the basic requirements of the Constitutional Court, while introducing a bonus for the performance of the public service while maintaining material security during its performance. According to the example, public service is voluntary for clients. As far as the government's position is concerned, it has taken a neutral position on him. I would say that there are some other things in the explanatory memorandum that might conflict. I am thinking, above all, that it is declared to be a budgetary neutral proposal, because, in variant two, we do not believe that this can be agreed with, because the very fact of increasing the amount of living by 40 per cent of the difference between a minimum and an existential minimum will certainly bring some increase in costs. That is why I think that, in fact, if the proposal goes to second reading, it should be dealt with in detail by the Guarantee Committee, the Social Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mrs Pastuchová's application. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u6	Good evening, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues. Let me also comment on this proposal to amend Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, which is called returning to the game the Institute of Public Service in the form of how it worked between 2009 and 2011. I come from the Liberec Region, namely Jablonec nad Nisou, once a district of thriving textiles and glass production. Times have changed, unemployment is growing, but there are also growing numbers of people who go to the office of work with their hands stretched out without trying to influence their fate. It's not a phrase. Personally, a few weeks ago, I sat next to the office of employment in Jablonec nad Nisou, and I was present at meetings with clients who were coming for these benefits. I get the impression that it doesn't matter if this person works or doesn't work, because the dosage in material distress is the same for everyone, which I think is wrong. [[18.50 hours]] We recently approved an amendment to the law on material distress, which provides and regulates housing supplements. In my opinion, it did not leave the Chamber of Deputies in an ideal form, but perhaps it will limit at least something to the abuse of this benefit. We should now focus here on a further amendment of this law and a crucial step that will motivate unemployed people in material distress, those who will be allowed to do so mentally and physically, to activities that could help them not only to improve financially, but also to maintain working habits that are slowly but certainly losing. There's no need to think of anything new. The public service with a motivational function worked successfully between 2009 and 2011. Social reform came in 2012, which turned it into a pasculi. Instead of motivating the unemployed and those in material distress, it was the Constitutional Court's decision that brought an end to the threat. However, public service remains in the law, but it is almost not used, nor has it any incentive or sanctioning character. So let us take over the good that worked and match it with the founding of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic so that no one is discriminated against. I mean seniors, disabled people, parental allowance or care allowance. The shortcomings highlighted by the Government's position on this proposal can be changed in the second reading. I therefore ask you to support and release this law into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u7	Thank you. One more apology. After 7:00 p.m., Mr. Vyzula apologizes. Let me ask you, who else is joining the general debate? I don't see anyone. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, I didn't mean to cut you short on your rights. Please, Madam Secretary of Labour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to make a very brief comment on the draft law which has already been mentioned here. I just want to say, because I am aware that a number of municipalities are calling for this institute to be renewed, so I support this bill, with the fact that, at the next stage of the legislative process, I recommend that the comments contained in the Government's opinion on this bill are essentially technical and legislative in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-011-048.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Furthermore, I have no application for the general debate, so I am ending it. The motion to return or refuse did not fall. Let me ask you about the final words. Senator? Not the final word, neither does the rapporteur. So we will vote on the commandment. There is a proposal from the Organising Committee on the Commandment of the Social Policy Committee. I'll ask if there's another proposal. It's not like that. So we will only vote on the commandment of the Social Policy Committee. I'll ring the bell. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 95. It's registered 166, for 141, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I conclude with the first reading of this proposal that it has been assigned to the Committee on Social Policy. I thank the Senator and the rapporteur. Opening point
