ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended / House print 215/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u2	Madam President, colleagues, at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the government is presenting a government proposal for an amendment to the Law on excise duties, which implements one of the priorities of the Government's programming declaration, and its adoption is important to support active farmers. In the submitted material, it is proposed to introduce measures that will enable the refund of excise duty corresponding to the advantage in 2013, i.e. 40 per cent of the excise duty on conventional diesel fuel and 57 per cent of the so-called mixed diesel. The proposed regulation complies with the European Union's public support rules. The effectiveness of the proposed amendment is proposed on the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication, with the possibility that the operators concerned will be able to apply for the refund of excise duty on mineral oils consumed from 1 July 2014. The proposed measures will also have a negative impact on public budgets of around 1.3 billion. crowns a year. The Government discussed and approved this material at its meeting on 28 May 2014. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to ask you to discuss the proposed bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Václav Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would introduce you to the news report on this government bill amending Law No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties. The government is presenting this bill, which retains tax advantages for farmers, the so-called green diesel, which is also based on the coalition agreement of social democracy, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement. The main objective is to increase the competitiveness of Czech farmers and ensure equal conditions with other Member States of the European Union. It should be said that, within the European Union, this measure is common in support of agricultural production, and tax systems are also applied by a number of countries to tax fuel relief when we talk about diesel for farmers. As far as I am aware, the tax credit for farmers of the Member States of the European Union is not limited to Austria, Bulgaria, the Netherlands and Slovakia. Historically, the excise tax has been returned since 2000 on the basis of the area of farmland and the limits according to agricultural culture. Since 2008, this method has been replaced by a return based on actual consumption. It should also be noted that the government of Petr Nečas in 2012 completely abolished the green oil under the so-called austerity measures. Following major protests, Nečasův' government changed its decision and postponed its termination by a year and only reduced the return from the original 60 per cent to 40 per cent for 2013 and from 1. 1. This tax advantage has already been fully abolished in 2014. That is why we are also discussing this proposal here today. The government proposal envisages a refund of 40 per cent of the excise duty on conventional diesel fuel and 57 per cent of the refund on excise duty on diesel with bio-property. The right shall be incurred by the person who operates agricultural primary production. At the date of filing of the tax return, the entity may not be in liquidation or bankruptcy. The law also provides for what is therefore to be understood by the agricultural primary production. The right to refund shall be demonstrated by proof of the sale of fuel and the registration of actual fuel consumption. The impact on the state budget is expected to be 1.32 billion. CZK, of which the reduction in excise income is 1.28 billion. CZK and increased costs associated with administration in customs administration in the amount of CZK 38 million. Crowns. This calculation is based on the actual drawdown of the gates in 2013. The bill is also accompanied by a draft decree on the method of calculating the right to refund excise duty. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the first day of the month following the date of the Act. Given that it is the interest of the coalition to ensure that the law is effective as soon as possible, the author of the law therefore proposes to discuss and agree at first reading, in accordance with Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. I, as rapporteur, agree with this and recommend that we approve it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u5	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u6	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to fulfil my duty and, on behalf of the two members of Parliament, to disagree with the law under Section 90.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u7	Once again, I must reiterate that it was not proposed to discuss this in an accelerated reading, so I think there has been a mistake by the rapporteur. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] But I don't have it in the president's office. According to the organizational reports, I have information that this has not been mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, and that is why it is not included in the programme in the 90th. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u8	I don't think we made this up, Madam Vice-President. As the Minister has pointed out here that he is proposing according to the '90s, so I, too, have highlighted this in my intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u9	Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u10	I think there's obviously been a technical error here somewhere on the way between the Office of the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, because if we look at the Government's resolution, we know that the government has decided and proposed it in accordance with Section 90, but there is probably an administrative error somewhere. There's no need to circle around long enough, one way or another, we blew it, so it's not going to be discussed in the '90s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u11	We take note of your veto and continue according to the classic script. Do I, Mr Kalousek, consider your application to the general debate to be exhausted? No, you will. Therefore, I am opening a general debate in which Mr Kalousek is entered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a slightly different veto of the '90s than in the case of excise duty on tobacco. Here, not only did the TOP 09 MEP join the veto on speedy negotiations, but he strongly disagrees with this proposal. In addition to the fact that they fundamentally disagree with this proposal, I will allow myself to turn to the Government and ask whether it will be completely common in the legislative process that two different partial amendments to the Consumer Tax Act will land on our table, each other, and in both cases the Government wants to discuss in accordance with Section 90. After all, I would ask, Prime Minister, for a little more standard professionalism. This is largely disrespectful to the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not saying it contradicts the Rules of Procedure, but in any case, it doesn't say anything about the Ministry of Finance's system work and it doesn't say anything about the government's system work. You just don't do that. That's a little pigsty, and try to make some peace at home, gentlemen. [[16.50 hours]] Now for this proposal. Of course, both the petitioner and the rapporteur are right that this proposal has lobbied the very strong agricultural lobby into its tax systems everywhere and that it has worked in a number of European Union countries and has been implemented in the Czech Republic for many years. The reason was the only one - every time there was a discussion in one or the other company about the level of support to be provided from public sources by agriculture of one or the other country, so that it didn't look like they got a raise, they gave them tax relief. It had the same effect in that volume, but at the moment it was better politically justified. After all, it is quite common, albeit an unfortunate trick in a number of other disciplines. For example, it is known that in American bases, shops are exempt from tax where soldiers buy. It's for the same reason. At a time when it was politically impassable to add professional soldiers, they were exempt from tax on their purchases. It was the same for their family budgets, and it was more digestible for the public. However, if, despite any criticism, this tax distortion has succeeded, and it is nothing more than a tax distortion here, to remove it from the Czech tax system, then why, for God's sake, dear colleagues, do you want to implement support for the Czech farmers by restoring the distortion and, together with it, restoring the systemic risk of tax evasion, which is immeasurable here, as every financial or customs administration will confirm to you, whether it is the tax administrator or she in the country where this excise refund exists. All of us who are from the village also remember that green oil was quite normal business and will be back in business. It's pointless. We are talking about the fact that the government is determined to improve the competitive conditions of Czech farmers in the amount of about 1.5 billion. Crowns. That's roughly the impact on the revenue, the balance that the return will have. That's 1.5 billion. Come on. For the state budget it will be fiscally neutral, it will be selected by 1.5 billion. more and 1.5 billion will go into the grant system. extra. Farmers are going to find their way, but we're not going to have a tax distortion here, it's not going to get expensive, and here I'm stressing that the tax administration is going to get considerably more expensive, it's going to be very administratively difficult to manage those refunds back, it's not going to get expensive tax management, the tax system is going to stay undamaged, the farmers get their money and everyone is going to be happy. If you push through this proposal just because it was just a symbol for someone - we're just talking about a symbol, we're not talking about money - we have no objection to getting 1.5 billion. has increased support for Czech farmers, and this has not undermined their competitiveness, as both the promoter and the rapporteur have said here. But they can be subsidized on the expense side. You don't have to destroy the tax administration because of this, you don't have to open a huge tax evasion door, which, of course, represents it. I remind you that the government, as one of the priorities, also has the fight against tax evasion and that, of course, every such distortion is open to tax evasion. If we've managed to lock her up, why in God's name do you want to open her up again? If there was no other way for farmers to help, then please, well, there's nothing we can do. But since that way exists, it's simpler, more systemic, so just because you once touched our grail, our green oil, and we want it back, we're going to make a tax distortion and open the gate with tax evasion. It's irrational, it's irrational, and I'm proposing rejection, and I'm asking you to think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u13	Thank you and now the next Minister of Finance is Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u14	Madam President, colleagues, I would first like to comment on the tobacco. I would ask through the President why Minister Kalousek did not do this in June 2013 or Mr Fischer. I asked my colleagues today why we're giving it so late that it might actually have been effective since January 1, 2014, and the answer is somewhere on the governments that were here last year. And if you threw a veto at it today, all I can say is that the proposal we have to adopt according to the EU's disposition estimated an increase in the price of three crowns for cigarettes, and if it doesn't pass, Mr Kalousek will cost six crowns, just for the information of our citizens. About green oil. I am sorry that Minister Jurečka is not here because the Ministry of Finance has the same opinion paradoxically as Mr Kalousek and we have suggested that this be done at a dose so that farmers receive compensation in a different way. It is widely known that I have a conflict of interest, so I voted against or abstained from the government, and it simply did not pass this proposal by the Ministry of Finance, and the government decided in such a way that today de facto instead of presenting it in one of the draft laws on excise duty, it was divided and should of course - paradoxically I must present it to Minister Jurečka. So in this respect, I have to be right, but I have respected the decision of the government, and that is why the situation is what it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u15	Good afternoon. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister Andrea Babiš. Now with priority rights, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and then Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, we have discussed in the Government whether we should bring those two standards together, whether there are changes in the Consumer Tax Act, where changes are being made to us, which require our commitments within the EU and on tobacco products, to include a change that is completely factually different from that and concerns the re-introduce of green diesel. And we decided at the Government's meeting to discuss these two proposals separately, because we assumed, and unfortunately, we were wrong that there is a responsible opposition here in the Chamber of Deputies, which will not block the negotiation of a bill that is already late. And the fact that the law is delayed is not the government's fault, because the government has prepared the proposal and submitted it within the framework of our mandate. It was just proper preparation, the law was properly discussed, the amendment was prepared, and the government sent it to the Chamber of Deputies meeting. And I think, in fact, it's quite all right, because it's a completely different matter. On the one hand, the increase in excise duty on tobacco products, which is basically a harmonisation regulation which was triggered by the movement of the Czech koruna exchange rate and, on the other hand, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, which addresses the return of green diesel. I was interested in listening to President Kalousek's argument about how he has the excellent road, where we will not restore green diesel and raise subsidies for farmers instead. And I would like to ask him through the President: Mr Member, and why didn't you do so when you canceled the green oil? So why didn't you put compensation into the law in the form of a subsidy, and now you're giving the new government princely advice in that sense? You guys canceled the green oil without a refund. There was no compensation from your government to farmers. That means one year down the door and the second year is cancelled completely. This means that no compensation has been paid to farmers since 1 January this year. So what you're saying here today is unfortunately, I have to call it one big hypocrisy. [[17,00 hours]] You could have done it, you had a majority here in the Chamber of Deputies, you could have said, "Yes, we're going to cancel the green oil because it's inefficient, and we're going to provide farmers with a dedicated subsidy to compensate them." But you canceled the green oil just to save money in the state budget at the expense of farmers. And you didn't care, you didn't give a damn about reducing their competitiveness, because in the surrounding countries, when I look at Poland, when I look at Germany, when I look at Austria, these states are able to provide much more funding from national sources than the Czech Republic has been able to provide in the long term. And green oil was one way to help our farmers in this situation, where those national subsidies are long-term below the national subsidies granted in Germany or Austria. So thank you, it's very nice advice, we can discuss it, but you, when you had the chance, when you had the majority here, you canceled the green oil, and you didn't provide any compensation to farmers. Then don't be surprised that we're going back to a solution that has some stability. And it has much more stability than the government's annual debate on what the state budget will look like and what the priorities in that state budget will be. For farmers, this is much more certainty in terms of the ability to save money, for those farmers who actually operate agricultural businesses. These were the reasons why the government coalition went back to re-establishing green oil and we agreed on this under the coalition agreement, and those were the reasons why we submitted two separate amendments to the Consumer Tax Act. Yes, it is an excise duty, but it concerns two different areas, and as you can see and feel, it is two different political debates that we will have here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. And before I give the floor to Mr Miroslav Kalousek, I will read the apology, or one canceled apology, by Mrs Ivana Dobešová, who is present from 16 o'clock, and from 17.30, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes for business reasons and from 18 o'clock Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. Mr Miroslav Kalousek has the floor now in his proper application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u18	Thank you. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but now you've twisted what I said. I am not suggesting and not suggesting what you call compensation, I think compensation is not the right word, but an increase of 1.5 billion money to farmers. That's not my priority, or the TOP 09. I'm just saying - I just respect the government's budget priorities. And I say, if that is your priority, then you have another mechanism to strengthen the competitiveness of Czech agriculture for the money. And I'm sure you do. Because, frankly, when you talk about a stable instrument, Prime Minister, you know as well as I do that approximately 35 billion crowns a year go into Czech agriculture in the grant way. And 35 billion crowns, it goes by the mechanism that I say would be much more appropriate for this purpose. And now, thank God, not a penny goes on that revenue side of the balance sheet today. You're not going to do anything but re-engage both sides of that balance sheet. In other words, it will be administratively demanding on the spending side, it will be administratively demanding on the income side. You won't want to tell anyone that 1.5 billion is such a crucial thing in that 35 billion volume that it is exclusively unstable given the political priorities of the government. Yes, each government will have different priorities. If any next government feels the need to reduce subsidies to the agricultural sector, it will add 1.5 billion there anyway. You don't want to say that any finance minister, any government, any Chamber of Deputies, if you count the support of Czech agriculture, will not add to that green oil. Add, of course. And he'll adjust the amount of subsidies. It's not two separate things. This is one package of money that Czech agriculture receives. Except now you're completely unnecessary to the massive instrument, the spending side of the balance sheet, where the 35 billion are flowing, you're totally adding that revenue balance, you're burdening the government and the tax administrator on the income side, instead of giving you 36,5 when you're 35, and not doing that nonsense distortion in the tax administration, on income. But above all, you have in your programming statement, Prime Minister, also the fight against tax evasion. And the most effective fight against tax evasion - the most effective fight against tax evasion is the abolition of systemic risks. And you're bringing him back. It just doesn't make any sense to us. About the tobacco, Minister of Finance, how should the public know that Kalousek is responsible for everything - I will send you such a nice shirt, made it for me by my friends, it is written there - it is - you said it, the rapporteur said it, the Prime Minister said it too, and it is also true that it is a logical intervention, a logical response to the intervention of the Czech National Bank, which has moved the course. The intervention was - the Bank Board decided to intervene in November. Minister of Finance Kalousek hasn't been in office in six months. On the other hand, take from when you were Minister and how long it took for you to present this very simple amendment. However, Minister, since I am already responsible for everything, if the amendment were presented in a way that would really respond to intervention and to our international commitments, if you did not fundamentally change the way in which the frontload is carried over all risks to the trader and took them away from the state, if you had not opened the scissors in such a way that you favored the importer compared to the domestic producers, we were willing to raise our hand for the 90th. But these two things didn't let us raise our hand for the '90s. And if any of you coalition MPs here were willing to stand up after the veto of the '90s and propose a shortening of the deadline, the deadline would have been shortened and the law could have been passed next week. Because the two problems I was talking about were discussed within five days. But it's all Kalousek's fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u19	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Now two priority rights, Mr Václav Votava, then Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, one comment on Mr Kalousek. He's here today fighting against green oil. Its argument is the fight against tax evasion. But, Mr. Vice-President, wasn't it you who made that change in 2008 as Minister of Finance for that kind of vomit? Based on actual consumption? At the time, I think you spoke differently. At the time, you justified that you were in favour of the green oil. And apparently, the tax evasion you're talking about today wasn't relevant to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u21	Now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, then Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u22	Thank you. It is not true what Kalousek says, because it was clear during the last year that we would not be able to make the 90 euros at the exchange rate. So it was known a long time ago that it needed to be changed. We have, of course, consulted the new proposal, and we think it is a fair suggestion that we are increasing it to everyone equally - percentagely. Yes. And we've consulted everyone, including our manufacturer, several meetings, all different businessmen, importers, etc., so we think that the proposal actually gives the same increase to everyone and that it's fair. So we paid a lot of attention to it, and I think last year it was clear that we needed to do the novel, and somebody overslept.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u23	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister Andrea Babiš. Now, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u24	That somebody overslept, I'd sign up for that. He overslept Minister Fischer, who had been there since June, and I think you overslept because at the time of the intervention it was clear that it was necessary to submit, and the law could be here in January or February, as we all can count, intervention was in November. I was far from blaming you, Minister. It just seemed absolutely incredible to me that you're willing to blame the situation for me, which I haven't been at the Ministry of Finance for a year, in a situation where none of your Members were able to propose or shorten the deadline, but then you're able to say here - and if it's any different, it's Kalousek's fault. That's the basically incredible argument. Mr Votav's honest reply. I didn't suggest the introduction of green oil back then, it existed. I only suggested a change of technique, which, after all, only slightly minimized the risk of tax evasion. I could not suggest the abolition of green oil, I was in a similar situation to today the coalition minister Babiš. I was a member of KDU-ČSL and I had to respect its political priorities. I do not want to say that green oil, but the way in which it was redistributed and its priorities led me to abandon the party and to pursue budgetaryly responsible policies. So you have to deal with Whitebread, not me. I couldn't have suggested that green oil be removed back then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u25	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I now see the Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek, reporting for the debate. I note that I have no written application for a debate, so I see applications from the point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would, by your means, Mr President, reply to President Kalousek. It is difficult for the Minister to deal with me, at that time I was a insignificant member of KDU-ČSL. And I think that your argument is somewhat limping, because there were cases where you acted as a member of the KDU-ČSL as Minister of Finance completely contrary to the resolutions of the institutions, and even with the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u27	Thank you. I think the discussion will be back to the bill that has been tabled. Again, I have no written application. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. Nobody's in the debate, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. The rapporteur does. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u28	Thank you for the floor. I was going to propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-006-024.u29	Okay. We'll deal with the proposals. Is the Minister of Finance interested in the final word? It's not like that. We will vote on the proposals that have been made in the debate and on the commandments of committees. First, then, the motion to reject the bill that fell in the debate. I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your registration cards. I think there is a stable number of Members. We will decide in the vote the order number 19, which I have begun. [[A larger number of Members are coming into the hall.]] Excuse me, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm still waiting because other people started coming after the gong, so I'm sorry. I can still hold... I think that there are now enough people who are interested in voting on this proposal. I have begun the vote on order number 19 and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the bill. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 19, from the Member present 161 for 29, against 123. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposals for the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no one, so we will decide on this proposal. I've started a 20-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20, 162 for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the reduction of the time limit for discussion to 30 days, in the vote on order number 21, which I have launched and I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21, from 162 in favour of 132, against 23. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Budgets and the time limit for discussion has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 24. We'll continue with point number
