ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and on Amendments to Certain Acts (Authorisation Act), as amended, and Act No. 151/1997 Coll., on property valuation and amending certain laws (Act on property valuation), as amended / House print 70/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government will be presented by the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Before taking the floor, I would ask Mr Jiří Pospíšil to take his place at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for this press. I now ask the Minister to speak his opening words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, let me briefly remind you of the reasons why the Government has tabled this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies. As I said here in my first reading speech, the aim is exclusively the transposition of two copyright directives of the European Union. It is a directive amending the directive on the period of protection of copyright and certain related rights and on the directive on certain permitted uses of orphan works. As far as the content of the amendment is concerned, the period of protection of the rights to music recordings is extended from 50 to 70 years, so that musicians and singers can benefit from their early recordings even at a late age, and yet the rights of recording companies that will have to provide these artists with additional rewards from the use of recordings during the extended period of protection. The period of protection of rights in musical works with the text will not end until 70 years after the death of the last of the authors. In the field of so-called orphaned works and orphaned sound recordings, i.e. works or records which the author or other right-holder of which is not known or invisible, an exception is introduced from exclusive copyright in favour of cultural and educational institutions and public broadcasters who will be able to digitise and make available on the Internet, subject to the conditions in question. [[15.30 hours]] Finally, I would like to reassure you once again that the Ministry of Culture is already preparing another amendment to the Copyright Act, which, in addition to the transposition of the recently adopted directive on collective management, will include other changes in order to make copyright regulation more effective and the wider use of licensing mechanisms in the interests of both rights holders and users. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u3	Thank you, Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman. We ordered this proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 70/1. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee, Mr Jiří Pospíšil, to present his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a brief report. The content of the amendment has already been mentioned in his introductory words by the Minister of Culture. So I will just stress and underline that this is a purely transpositional amendment, and this was also in line with the debate on the relevant committee on science, education, culture, youth and physical education. In other words, during the debate itself, it has been shown that at least from among the professional public, but also from among some members of the committee, there is an effort to regulate copyright in a more extensive form, in a wider version, but it is precisely on the basis of the promise of the Ministry of Culture that a more comprehensive amendment of this law will be submitted in the next few months, the committee did not discuss individual proposals, respectively. they weren't even presented at the end. That is why the resolution I will now read to you is more or less very simple. The resolution of the committee responsible recommends: The Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the Government's bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Copyright Rights and on Amendments to Certain Acts, so-called. copyright law. In other words, the Committee recommends that the proposal be adopted in the form submitted by the Government without there being any provisions governing or amending or supplementing amendments in the resolution. Just as I have already said, the reason why the committee discussed briefly, very quickly, only the text of the government draft is that the Ministry of Culture has committed itself to presenting its own, more extensive amended text of the copyright law. So much for the rapporteur's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have no written application and ask who is applying from the point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor. Mrs Zelienková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I have had an amendment marked 680 inserted into the House system, to which I hereby declare myself. Now I will allow you to briefly introduce him in a few sentences. The amendment contains four points. Its aim is at least to straighten out the situation between collective administrators and taxpayers. Collective administrators such as OSA, Integram and others apply collective protection of copyright and, in particular, property rights. Under this, we can imagine mostly the collection of fees for the use of copyright works, or rewards. In doing so, an important imbalance between the rights and obligations of collective administrators and users of the subject of protection can be observed, i.e. that collective administrators have more rights than users and, on the contrary, users, i.e. the payers of these charges, such as hotels, stores, offices alike, have only obligations towards collective administrators. The operator of the hotel, guesthouse, restaurant or any establishment in which the television or radio is located is legally obliged to pay fees to collective administrators for the possibility of public dissemination of copyright works. Although this may seem strange to us, fees to collective administrators must be drawn from the premises from each radio and every television network. If you have a hotel with 20 rooms and you have TV in your rooms, then from each TV you have to pay collective administrators a fee for the public distribution of the work. It is one example that law and logic do not always have to meet. Most legal areas do not consider the hotel room a public place. For example, criminal law considers it private space. If the police want to conduct a search of the occupied hotel room, according to Section 83 of the Criminal Code, they need either the consent of the person staying in the room or a search warrant issued by the court. Very nice and logically, the Constitutional Court published this issue in the 219/2010 finding. Moreover, the issue of the definition of a public place was dealt with very thoroughly in the past by the Constitutional Court and both our highest courts in their case-law. The most discussed caselaw is in this regard in relation to the crime of disorderly conduct. Among other things, sex in public or a public place is considered as such. However, it is clear from the case-law of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court that it cannot be disturbed if it has sex in a hotel room because it is not a public place. However, this logic does not apply in the case of copyright. In the dispute of SGAE versus Rafael Hotels SA C306/05, the European Court of Justice held that although the hotel room is not a public place, if the guest is watching television in the room, it is about public distribution of the author's work. From there comes the obligation to pay from each TV and every radio in the premises. Unfortunately, however, the law is set so that collective administrators can dictate prices and do not need to justify their increase to anyone. There's only one line in the law they can't cross. It is determined that the sum of the fees paid to collective administrators must not exceed 50 per cent of the licence fees paid from televisions and radios to the bank account of Czech Television and Czech Radio and the amount of which is determined by the Act on Radio and Television Charges. Otherwise, we can see in practice a situation where individual management unions set themselves a price or increase it year on year and do not intend to discuss it in any way. So it is a unilateral dictation of oligopoly equipped with incredible legal powers. In some ways, collective administrators have even stronger instruments than financial authorities. The berňák has to give you proper reasons for every decision they make. Each of his decisions can be challenged by an administrative action, and not even by interest, before the penalty which the tax office can charge you, is less than the penalty that threatens you if you don't pay as much as the collective administrators want. They have an instrument in the form of an action for the issue of unwarranted enrichment, on the basis of which the court will automatically grant them double the normal remuneration under the applicable copyright law. That is why collective administrators can dictate and do not necessarily have to justify anything. The proposed amendment aims at at least a little balancing the position of payers and collectors in this system. First of all, there is a proposal that would make it possible for room occupancy to be taken into account when calculating the amount of fees. I'm sure you'll recognize that it's perfectly logical. In a room where there is no one, there can be no public dissemination of the author's work. For a long time, collective administrators and relevant fees agreements with hotels, spas, etc. have accepted this. Previously, they contained a clause that takes into account occupancy. In recent years, however, collective administrators have refused to apply these provisions to contracts with reference to the fact that this possibility is not explicitly stated in the law. A moment ago, the judgment of the Court of Justice in Case C306/05, by the way. also expresses the availability and impact of this aspect on the amount of the copyright fee collected. It states that the mere physical location of such a device in a room does not constitute the provision of a signal to clients staying in a room without further communication to the public, but constitutes a communication to the public. In other words, only the accommodated client has the opportunity to use the signal sharing to watch the author's works. At the request of hotel operators, guesthouses, spas and other accommodation facilities, I therefore propose that the Act be supplemented by this amendment. At the same time, I present to you a proposal that would transform a unilateral dictation of collective administrators into a normal negotiation of two sovereign contracting parties during the negotiations on payment contracts. The point is that the taxpayer should not be forced to sign anything that is brought to him under the threat of an action for unjust enrichment with the risk of a penalty in the form of a double rate, payment of court expenses and the obligation to refrain from using the works, which in this case means not to use radio and television receivers. [[15.40 hours]] The point is that the taxpayer should be able to actually discuss the details of the contracts or the level of the rates during the negotiations and should therefore be given the opportunity to show goodwill by paying at least according to the old terms and conditions until the conclusion of the agreement. In legal practice, this is a very common institute. In other areas of law, the possibility of expressing such goodwill is enshrined. When two parties dispute the amount of payment for goods or services and pay the part which they consider to be indisputable and also communicate this fact to the other Contracting Party, civil law considers this act to be a sign of goodwill. Therefore, the debtor cannot be punished for unjust enrichment or preference of the creditor and the like. At least if, within the prescribed time limit after the dispute has been settled, he pays the difference between what he paid of his will and how much he may be ordered to pay by decision of the court. The legalization of the possibility to pay during the previously accepted conditions will improve the position of both parties. Collective administrators will receive a seamlessly indisputable portion of payments, and we will allow taxpayers to freely negotiate terms. These are the two most important aspects of the amendment that I have tabled to you. Other things are legislative technical specifications. In conclusion, I would therefore like to ask you to support this proposal, which should relieve providers of accommodation and spa services who are severely tested by the economic crisis. Thank you in advance for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u7	Thank you, Mrs Zelienková, and I am sure she will come forward for a detailed debate, because we are in a general debate. So I'm going to ask her to do it again later in a detailed debate. I ask, then, who else to the general debate? Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues. I would support the efforts of my colleague because I see a colleague, Hovorka, who is smiling. We fought here and fought for a change in the copyright law, if I vaguely remember, in 2003 or 2004, this change was valid for about two years, but after a great effort by the copyright associations it returned to the way it was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u9	I thank my colleague Seďa for his comment. Who else in the general debate? Please, my colleague, Polčák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u10	Thank you. Mr President, it must be said that the Member has presented a rather comprehensive analysis of copyright, which has also intervened in criminal law. Unfortunately, not all claims can be fully accepted. But that's not what I want to do. What Mr Seďa said in particular. It should be said that the amendment to the Copyright Act, which was adopted in the year, I believe, 2005, was subsequently paid by all the entities who were obliged to pay these rewards. Since it was found non-European, it was subsequently abolished. All those who referred to the Czech law had to pay double those rewards under European law. I would like to ask because the situation is extremely difficult under European law, too, so that such a fundamental amendment is carried out by the Ministry of Culture. I do not think that it is possible for the copyright law to be amended on this matter without the committee concerned dealing with it, because it is therefore, as an amendment... Madame, I do not want to bring this down, but I think it is really appropriate for this to go through the debate of the committee responsible. And secondly, to have a clear analysis of the Ministry of Culture, because at least once before, the House has been wrong about this matter. And those persons whose benefits were to be accepted paid for it. I repeat, it is also a matter which is regulated by European directives and regulations, and it is important that this matter be examined whether it is in accordance with European law. Otherwise, I welcome Mrs Zelienková's efforts, but it is really important to bring such a fundamental proposal forward to the committee as well. And if the committee refused to deal with it, I suppose he had some reason to, because the amendment, which is submitted by the Ministry of Culture, is a transposition amendment. It was only meant to be an amendment to what European law contained. So if the Ministry is preparing another, complex amendment to the copyright law, I think that this is exactly where all stakeholders, whether they are users on the one hand or collective administrators on the other, would be able to discuss this and not be thrown into the legislative process at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am still asking if you are proposing this formally for committee discussion as a procedural proposal for the committee to be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u12	No, I think that this is just a statement or an opinion for the Ministry of Culture, because it is the Minister who should say what to do with this, because the proposal has been declared that it is originally to be discussed in the 90s, that is, absolutely without the committee's ability to address this matter here. Finally, the standard parliamentary process in the Chamber of Deputies was carried out by the committee being able to comment on the matter, but the standard was considered as a transposition from the outset. If it becomes a different standard, which also aims to regulate what is not the subject of European directives, I think the Ministry of Culture should comment on this. But I'm not suggesting it goes back to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u13	Thank you. It's just that it was your point. The rapporteur has entered into a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u14	Thank you very much. I have one comment ad margo of what my fellow Member Polčák said. The Committee did not refuse to address this possible amendment. No amendment to the Committee has been tabled. This has to be rightly said with the fact that the debate that took place there was more or less crystallized in the plane: it is a transposition amendment, we will not discuss possible other possible changes to the copyright law, these other changes will be submitted to us by the Ministry of Culture, represented by the Deputy Minister, in any subsequent amendment, which should be here in the order of months. It's correct to specify it this way. Perhaps I have mistakenly said my introductory words that other amendments have not been proposed there. The philosophy of the debate was: this is a transposition amendment that was originally to be adopted in the 90's regime. After all, I would also like to maintain some consensus that we are discussing something that we need to adopt in relation to our obligations arising from membership of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u15	Thank you. I'm now registering two applications. With priority rights, Minister Herman and then Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u16	Thank you, Mr President. As I said, colleagues and colleagues, the Ministry of Culture is preparing a comprehensive amendment to the copyright law, where, of course, we will work on the things that have been put forward, and we will meet those who are concerned with these matters. But since the text presented is a transposition amendment, as it has already been said, I would have advocated that the Government's proposal put forward be agreed as it was said, and the things that were added in the next amendment, which the Ministry of Culture is preparing, would have been taken into account after expert discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u17	Thank you, Minister. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I know, of course, the arguments put forward by my fellow Member. These were actually presented here between 2002 and 2006. I know the case-laws in question. However, the truth is that there really was enormous pressure from collective administrators, and apparently some letters followed towards the European Commission and the European Commission, after the law had been passed, sent letters to the Ministry of Culture. These letters concerned the issue of compatibility with European law. [[15.50 hours]] So I would recommend that such complex issues, which may have implications in terms of possible sanctions of the European Union, be discussed in detail in order to give the opinion of at least the European Committee and also the opinion of the Ministry of Culture as an expert guarantor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u19	Thank you, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, for the last time entered into the general debate. I don't see anyone else. I'm done with the general debate. There was no proposal in the general debate. We will discuss the debate in detail. I beg Mrs Zelenková, who has decided to present us with a proposal which she has justified in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u20	So I would still like to table an amendment to House press number 70 in a detailed debate. The amendment is referred to as 680.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-009-003.u21	Thank you, Madame. Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the Minister's final word. He is not interested, nor is the rapporteur interested. There is no motion for a vote, which is why I am ending second reading of press number 70. We will continue with the proposal under House press 23. This is about
