ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-019-11-001-059.u1	59. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, and Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended /German press 337/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor. You are right, it is so that this item has been interrupted in the general debate. In that case, we will continue with the general debate. I say that I am noted that this point has been interrupted in the general debate on Wednesday 5. 11. So we will continue with the general debate. I have a factual point here, Mrs Nytrová. No, you don't. I am asking if anyone wants to join the general debate. It's not like that. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or the rapporteur would like to have the final word. It's not like that. Since there has been no motion for a return or rejection, we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I am asking whether there is another proposal for committees. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. First I'll read the proposal, then I'll vote on it. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 177, and I'm ending this vote. Members present are 135, for a proposal of 125 Members. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for consideration by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I conclude on this point. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. I'm opening the second item of the 19th meeting, and that's it.
