ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 239/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws /house print 258/ - second reading We dealt with this House press on Thursday, 18 September, when we interrupted it in the general debate. I ask that the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař and the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Karel Šidlo, take a seat at the rapporteur's table on behalf of the Government. I would remind you that the Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 258/1. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. At this point, I do not see any application for a general debate, so I ask who is reporting for a general debate, and I see Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u2	Thank you for the floor. I would follow up on my Thursday night performance and ask a few questions to the Minister of Transport. The explanatory memorandum says very briefly, about three lines, in simple terms, that the Ministry of Transport is not able to do it when I translate it like this, it's written in other words. And I would only turn our attention to one of those three things, and as I said on Tuesday or Thursday night, I wouldn't care about any of the requests, even if it came out of the law, it wouldn't matter at all, so there's no problem with the delay. But at the technical inspection stations, it's so glamorous that by evaluating, experience, something could cause some problems. [[unintelligible]] And now the specific questions, if the Department of Transport has the information. I think it could, because first of all, it's a regulated market. I don't know if you all know this, but setting up a tech control station isn't that easy, and I don't think everyone knows it. Rather, I think that the very proposal that wanted to tighten the conditions could, on the one hand, lead to greater market opening, because if you put stricter conditions and emphasis on quality, then you do not have to regulate it completely and the customer chooses who can or cannot provide the service. [[16.40 hours]] Today, in the first instance, the regional authorities decide. If the regional authority wisely considers that there are enough of these escorts, technical inspection stations, in the region, it simply does not give permission, and the appeal authority is the Ministry of Transport. I think the system is unnecessarily regulated, overloaded. On the contrary, if we go by the way that we prescribe what the system must contain, what safety or protective elements it must contain against the quality of the services provided and to customers, then there is nothing to prevent us from opening the market and, in principle, to do so after fulfilling the conditions that, even by law, we will strictly prescribe so that anyone who wishes and fulfils the strict conditions can do so. I am not afraid that it will grow, that garage companies will grow up, because even the necessary technology and the tools that provide security exclude hundreds and hundreds of new people interested in running this business, which in principle works very well, but, as in many other fields, honest ones pay you back for the dishonest ones. The proposed law, which has already been in force since August of last year and the part of the flows, which has been in force since last August and is due to be effective since 1 January next year, is going in exactly this direction, i.e. supports those who are honest. Many had it before the system was enacted voluntarily, because they had it as a competitive advantage to other technical control stations, and it was a competitive advantage, which was used mainly by large users. I think big carriers are very careful how well the service is provided. I spoke on Thursday that the law was originally to apply from 1 July this year and we added six months after discussions in the Economic Committee during the last parliamentary term, which I assume is sufficient time. If that were true from August to June, any minister or ministry would have less than a year to implement it. In terms of security, as I say, we've added six months. The minister joined in January. Of course, I don't know the exact state of the Ministry's preparation for the law's effectiveness, but I'm convinced... I'm really sick of talking when it's so loud... I'm sure you could have made it. So I would ask for information if the Department of Transport has it, how many technical control stations there are nowadays, how many of them have the system, how many they don't have, and who and how they failed. Because it is not a matter of particular minister, preparation of the law, virtually. implementation of the law. The law has been passed. It was published in the Collection of Laws in August 2013. I know there's been two ministers since then. But that's not the Minister's personal business. He doesn't write it, he doesn't plan it. I take it as a matter of course part of the work of civil servants at the Ministry. And if the current minister says that the ministry can't make it and doesn't make it, and he knows it quite soon before January, because the bill was in government in July or June, I think it was already in the interdepartment in June, i.e. For six more months, the Ministry had the power to do so, so I am particularly interested in what the problem is, who has failed, and how the Minister or the responsible Deputy Director or Director or Director of the Department could possibly handle this. For example, we can blame the Minister for submitting a bill too late. But not the implementation of a law that has been passed. Then my amendment is aimed at letting the three things out of the way of delaying the effectiveness of the technical inspection stations. Then, of course, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for this proposal. I also have a text for the rapporteur, I can give him the same text as the rules of the Chamber of Deputies. And I would ask the Minister for answers to my questions. Thank you. Then I will apply with additional comments or questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u3	I thank Mr Stanjur. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. I don't see anyone. So I'm ending the general debate if Mr... Sorry, I'm going back, I didn't notice Mr. Bendl, who volunteered at the last minute. Please, in the general debate, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u4	Thank you. I'm sorry. I was waving, I guess you didn't see me, Mr President, so I apologize to everyone. I would add questions to the Minister, because with the concept of registration marks that the State would not own, but owned directly by the owners of the vehicle, we once came up with it, because we consider it effective both in terms of people who own cars and in terms of the state. Because few people know it's the state who orders the registration plates and prints them. In 2009, the State spent approximately 300 million on registration marks. Crowns. I find it much more logical for every car owner to have his registration plate. Every time he bought a car, he'd only solve the problem at the DMV, but he'd have one single registration plate. The state wouldn't spend hundreds of millions of crowns buying something like this. And for all of us who own a vehicle, this situation would be easier. I want to know if the Minister has made progress on this, if this happens, i.e. that the state will no longer spend any money on registration plates, and thus the owners will become people who buy them and can own them for life, which I would consider practical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u5	I thank Mr Bendl. I'm asking the Minister if he's asking for his word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to Mr Bendl's speech. I am very pleased that a long time ago there was an interest in solving registration marks and transferring them to the ownership of citizens from the ownership of the state. The fact is that every year the state spends between 280 and 300 miles each year. for ownership of aluminium sheet metal. It's been like this since 1990. In that time, we lost financing 25 km of highways and about 40 km of first-class roads. I am just amazed at why, in the 56th Act, which we are talking about, the postponement of two paragraphs in effect, this was no longer proposed when Mr Bendl said they came forward with it in 2009. As far as further progress is concerned. We have launched a transparent tender which is being challenged by individual participants at present. Therefore, in order to abolish Hycon's monopoly, which continues to supply State registration marks on the basis of a contract concluded by my predecessors, Minister Schling. This transparent tender is currently under way. Our goal is to complete it. In the tender terms the tender is valid until the end of 2015, with the fact that we will prepare a comprehensive amendment to Act No. 56 which will address the transfer of brands into the ownership of citizens. We also propose the possibility to issue three brands including wheel carriers and duplicate the issue of the brand in case of damage, which will certainly be welcomed by all carriers, so that they do not have to go to the technical inspection station after any damage to the brand and especially businessmen thus disable the vehicle for at least a week out of power. We will present this law to the Chamber of Deputies at the beginning of next year so that its effectiveness is at 1. 1. 2016. The state saves 300 miles. and we will create space for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will be able to offer these brands to citizens based on the definition of the brand. As regards Mr Stanjura's speech. It requires me to supplement how much STK exists, how much STK has the implemented system. I don't want to say this out of my head at this point, and I don't want to lie to you here. I will prepare it and introduce the Chamber of Deputies to Mr Stanjura's demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u7	I thank the Minister for his reply. Mr Stanjura is also reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u8	I thank the Minister for providing me with the information. I figured he couldn't know from a spot, that's perfectly understandable. But you, Minister, have avoided answering my other questions, and you should know that answer by now. Why do you propose to postpone, by the way, the third brands that you said you wanted to introduce from January 1st? But I understand that. But at the STK, I asked clearly what the reason for the proposed one-year delay was, and who actually caused it if the reason was serious. And if so, if any measures have been taken against those who have caused it. Since August 2013, the Ministry had just 16 months to implement it on 1 January 2015. We can't look like nothing happened after a year and months. [[16.50 hours]] Yes, if there is a problem, then what is the problem and who has caused it and what measures have we taken against those who have caused it so that we do not have it here again in a few months, that once again the state is not ready to implement it. Those are the key questions. When we talk about the brands, and I think it's an interesting debate, but when we say they're going to save the state, we also have to say that the brands are going to buy citizens. They won't be free. The state will save money, but citizens will buy it, so it will cost every operator or car owner. So that we don't just say that we're actually transferring this obligation, and we can have a debate, I don't mean today, about what the pluses and the minuses are. This debate is not black and white. One system doesn't have all the pluses and one system doesn't have all the negatives. But we have to say it honestly, if it doesn't apply to the state, then citizens will pay it. No one else can pay for the brand. It looks nice, but we have to tell people it won't be worth paying for, but they'll pay for it themselves. That's just the way it's gonna be. Businesses won't do it for free. But I think that the debate is right and that we have enough time to take the pluses and the minuses of this system. Personally, if I had to guess, and I'm willing to take that risk, I think it's absolutely impossible for the state to run it from January 1, 2016. Among other things, because the law is not yet at all. And when it's written, and if we agree on it, it'll have to be implemented. And today is less time to implement by 1 January 2016 and it would be a fundamental and cardinal change of system. And to say today that in 15 months it can work, it's just an unreal promise! So I don't think the Minister either guessed it, or he's confusing us a little bit. It just can't work on January 1, 2016. And if so, try to tell me when you expect the law to be in the House, when it will be valid, that means it will pass through the House, the Senate, the signature of the President, and how much time will remain for implementation next year. I think if we do, we can talk about January 2017, maybe January 2018. I'd see that as a realistic date, 'cause you were right to say you put out a tender. I know it's been running for months. And for every new tender, the applicants will have the same problems. Not even that, if we were to write a contract in time, and now I'm thinking of a brand delivery, besides, you have to completely change the information system, that's another thing. So I think it's completely unrealistic to say today that in 15 months it's gonna work. It just can't work! And if you don't believe me, we can tell each other in January 2016, which one of us was right. But if we don't see the timetable for legislation, public contracts, changes to the information system, I responsibly declare that this is an unrealistic term. Then I ask you why you have not been able to secure the slight change in the eswells in the eleven months of your operation from January to December, when you say that the revolutionary change will be ready in 15 months from now, and the law, perhaps it is already in the commentary process, I do not know that I would look at the eKLEP as well as the interdepartmental commentary procedure, that is not, but I feel that it is not yet in eKLEP, that it is not yet in progress. I don't know if it's already written or working on it, but the schedule is just made up. I will use this strong word - invented! And if you don't, I'm gonna ask you to tell us the schedule today in about months, not after a day, but in months when the law will come out of the House, the Senate, when you'll compete with brand vendors and when you'll compete with an information system supplier to secure it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u9	I thank Mr Stanjur. Another party to the general debate is the Minister of Transport. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u10	Thank you. I would like to respond to Mr Stanjura. First of all, I would like to say that at the moment that the ownership of registration marks is transferred to citizens' property, the state will not issue any public tender. It will only define what the brand should look like, and the citizen will secure this mark for approved manufacturers. There's not gonna be a competition here. That's the first thing. As regards the timetable, a presentation of basic amendments to Act No. 56 and the relevant department 150 was instructed to work on this law. Thanks to the delay of some laws at the Ministry of Transport, I replaced the Director of the Department, the Head of Law and Law and strengthened this department by five new people so that the delays that were there could somehow be eliminated and prepared new laws, especially Act No. 56. As far as financial matters are concerned, Mr Stanjura here says that nothing is black and white and that in any case it will be paid by a citizen. Of course, but today the citizen pays the administrative fees for registration of the brands. Today the state spends money on ownership of aluminum sheet metal. By opening this market, which ODS and Mr Stanjura are still telling us to open, approved manufacturers, it is reasonable to believe that the price of registration marks will drop significantly. Next. These marks will be owned by a citizen and will be with him for life. This means that the citizen loses any costs when registering the vehicle and when visiting other administrative offices, including the STK. This also needs to be counted. We're probably comparing incomparable. As regards matters relating to the proposed postponement of Section 48a on STK, I would not comment there until the final speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mr Stanjura is also reporting to the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u12	I would like you to note that, in the case of the law before us, the Minister does not want to answer in the debate so that Members cannot respond. I can, I have priority rights, so I don't care if he says it now or in the final word. I asked about the schedule. I didn't question what you said. I didn't say citizens would pay a higher price. Don't start with something I didn't say! I asked about the schedule. You said it was due as of January 1, 2016. I find it completely unrealistic. It's a simple question. When we talk about a law that's not written yet, it seems almost pointless. There's gonna be some sort of central brand registration, isn't there? How will the state know that the citizen has the specific one? Is it really gonna be free at the municipal offices? Will municipalities pay officials from their own without the State's contribution or without the fee of the person handling it? I don't know what you have in mind. But instead of saying who's responsible for the delay, you've avoided that answer again, you're already planning another law. And it's good or bad, I don't know when you hired five new people. But you said it would be January 1st. And you didn't introduce us to the schedule again. I'll repeat the same question for the third time. Why do we want to postpone? Who failed the Department of Transport? And when will it actually be implemented and ready to launch? Third time. If you don't answer my question, I won't ask you again for the fourth time. I'm gonna leave it for an interpellation on Thursday, I guess. I don't want to keep other colleagues and colleagues, but notice. I thought we could have a dialogue here. Someone asks and somebody answers. He may have different arguments, but not that we have one law, and you're still talking about something that's not even here yet. Of course, this can be very difficult to lead to controversy when the bill is not written. But we can talk about general principles. From your appearance, a citizen would understand that when you change the system, and he gets a registration plate, he won't have to go to the municipal office. I don't think so. I don't think so at all. How do the state, the police and others know that 1A1 - and now I don't know, add four digits - owns a specific citizen? You described it so much, it'll buy it cheap. They're paying a fee for it today. I don't know if the fee plus the new brand will be cheaper than today. I don't think so. I think we have the same background at the Department of Transport. Petr Bendl is right that he has been considering this for years. And that's why I'm saying it's not black and white. And I didn't say it was wrong! When there's a concrete bill, we're gonna make a statement about it and see if it's going in the right or wrong direction. Now we are unable to respond to this, but we are able to respond to the problem that we are dealing with today and daily. Who actually caused the state not being able to enforce what we approved in the middle of last year from 1 January 2015 and what was published in the Collection of Laws in August 2013.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u13	I thank Mr Stanjur. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Now, really, no one, that is, I am ending the general debate. The Minister, the rapporteur, is not interested in the final word, so I will begin the debate in detail. The Minister is interested in the final word in the general debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u14	I don't want to discuss whether I'm ready to answer or not. I would just like to sum up how the security system on the S.T.K. works today. The law laid down 3. 7. 2013 new requirements for the central information system of technical inspection stations, so-called CIS STK. The Ministry of Transport has proposed a new paragraph, which completely addresses the issue of CIS STK. The text of the documentation of the vehicle presence in the STK was added to the bill on the basis of an agreement with the Ministry of Interior. The general objective is to have cameras or cameras connected to the CIS in the STK. Following the first analysis of the issue, it was clear that the CIS STK system must be completely newly linked to the Central Vehicle Register, which, however, was not secured by development support until the fifth month of 2014, and it was secured by a new contract for our management of the Ministry of Transport. The purchase of documentation must be closely linked by the amended decree, when it was clear during the preparation that the new system must have a gradual run-up, which will last up to one year in each station. That's not the idea of the Ministry of Transport, that's the opinion of the technical inspection stations. Date 1. 5. 2015 would be real only for the deployment of the central environment, not for the implementation of individual stations, the law did not lay down any transitional provisions for this. In a factual analysis, which part of the law, in addition to shifting the term of registration marks on request in connection with the prepared model of the Federal Republic of Germany, has to be postponed, was stated the inappropriate way of starting camera systems in the STK. At present, almost 50 stations already own technical control for the need of some technical documentation, however, their compatibility with CIS STK information system is not ensured at the moment. However, if they meet the connection conditions, they may subsequently be connected to the CIS STK. As part of the preparation of the implementing decree, the vehicle documentation technology has been specified and the STK station must have time to ensure the necessary technique and connection to the central system. The shift of the deadline will therefore ensure a logical start-up, where during the year 2015, stations will be equipped with appropriate technical means as from 1 January 2015 as part of the new version of the Act and the implementing decree. 1. 2016 the system could have been launched after complete testing without the risk of non-functionality and failure to comply with the law. This is not about delaying the implementation but about ensuring a real way at individual technical inspection stations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u15	Thank you, Minister. Furthermore, with priority rights, the rapporteur, after whom the President of the ODS MEP, shall give priority. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to propose, at the request of the petitioner, a reduction in the deadline between 2 and 3 reading to 48 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u17	Thank you to the rapporteur. I will now ask the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u18	The minister says he's not ready to debate, and if he's willing to answer - I'm not, either, because he's not willing to answer. There's nothing to argue with because, for example, he didn't answer the question, so I'm gonna try to respond to the text he read here. So we've heard such a fairy tale that if we put it off for a year, now everyone is going to prepare themselves honestly to make it work in a year. But the law has been since July 2013. Everyone's been getting ready for a year and a half. You said you didn't solve anything until May, but you started in January, not May. You said May 2014. That's why I'm saying that you personally had 11 months to implement. Now you're convincing us that 12 more will help. And at the same time, you say you're making a whole new law. Well, I don't know how to put it all together. But my colleagues and I acknowledge that you don't actually know who caused the delay, you don't really know what's going on at the Ministry. It's just that the officials told you it wouldn't make it. You were talking about impact analysis. I would ask if we, as Members, are able to get it available for reading. And I'm just wondering if it's the same people who wrote the bill. That's how often it is. They may be different people, but I remember who prepared the bill and who said: Minister, do not prolong it by the six months, 1 July 2014 is completely fine, we and STK will make it. If it isn't the same guys who wrote an analysis on your assignment that you can't make it. Maybe not, but I'll be very happy, and I think that even colleagues in the Economic Committee get an analysis with the date and signature of a particular responsible worker. I also heard a few months ago how intensively they work on the Railways Act. And that's kind of folklore, because I haven't breathed it to this day, how the responsible workers at the Department of Transport gave me a presentation, how they've been working on the Railway Act for two years - it's been almost two years since then - and I wouldn't be surprised if they still had 14 identical slides, where there were really only questions and no answers. And those people are still there. They're still there! Some of them you promoted, you sent them to the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways. I'm really watching this! It's from public sources, it's not classified internal information from the Ministry. And it was an unforgettable experience for me that those who worked on it for two years, so they made 14 slides of questions and actually said, we're not going to write it, so someone else should write it. We defined the problem and have someone write it down. So as we used to rapport every week, it kind of shifted slowly, and then the government fell and I stopped watching it, but it's also such a legend at the Ministry of Transport that there's a new, absolutely fundamental law on railways. Perhaps experienced parliamentary athletes, as rapporteur, also remember this from the pre-last term when it was said that a new law on runways should be prepared. And we're slow in 2015, and the law's still not, and I'm not surprised because I know who's working on it or not. I have no problem with what he's suggesting, the shortening of the deadline. There really is one amendment, so thinking about the amendment or the vote, we don't need days or weeks for that, it's really no problem, and I'm willing to support the reduction of the deadline to 48 hours. I'm just saying that it's wrong and that once again the state is punishing the honest, who have believed the law, prepared themselves, and prefers those who have relied on the state as usual to shift, postpone or change. So what I'd invest, you'll see. If there's enough of us that we don't do this, we'll call somebody at the Ministry, they'll understand and they'll put it away. And that is a principle that I generally disagree with. To be fair, it's not the only law where this happens, we do it quite often. We always hear a lot of good reasons why we have to postpone the duty. In my opinion, there are two solutions: either we are going to enforce these obligations very consistently and we are not going to change the rules, or we are not going to impose that obligation at all! Because if we set it up, the decent and honest believe it, prepare, complete their education, invest in their business, change technology, and now I can continue, and the others don't care, have a competitive advantage, they don't have to invest, they don't have to study after nights etc., and then we end up giving them the truth and I think we're gonna hurt those who believe us, the state or the laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. I draw attention to the fact that we have closed the general debate and are coming to the debate in detail. Perhaps. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u20	Thank you, Mr President. It's just a reaction to Mr. Stanjura. As far as the Railways Act is concerned, it is indeed in the process of preparing for processing. In July, the European Commission's infringement came from the European Commission to exceed the competences of rail inspection, so we also incorporated this inrringement, which came in July, into the Railway Act. That's probably why there's a delay in the tens of days, a few weeks. We have to deal with this precisely in order to meet all the conditions. However, this law is being prepared, it also deals with the area of the regulator and will be submitted to the Czech Government this year. In the first decade of October, we expect an intermediate review procedure. As for the discussed matter of the STK. I would like to say that the law which was to take effect on 1 January 2015 will be fulfilled and the Ministry of Transport is ready for its application. However, it turns out that the law does not sufficiently take into account the need for a transitional period on the part of technical inspection stations, which must ensure technical implementation and, above all, the connection to the central system. For the smooth running of stations, suitable use of current equipment and acquisition of new equipment we consider it useful and necessary to move forward the deadline of efficiency to ensure this transition. At the same time, the deadline will allow implementation of some new elements of the EU Directive 2014/45, which was published on 3 April 2014. Technically and factually, the whole matter has been consulted with representatives of technical inspection operators so that the requirement of the law is met without any problems. There is therefore no delay in the implementation of this important element, but an adjustment that will allow it to be fulfilled in real terms and without proportionate risk. I would just like to add that this proposal has been discussed in the Economic Committee. To the effectiveness of the proposed measure after the discussion, the Economic Committee adopted and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u21	I thank the Minister. In a detailed debate... I am sorry, the Minister has opened a general debate with his speech, so I will ask Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u22	Yes, that's right. Thank you. By speaking, the Minister also allowed me to speak, which I thank him for. If you say so, Minister, 18 months - I'm sorry, but 18 months, a year and a half for implementation? That's a really long time. It's every institution in the Czech Republic, and I can invent the worst, somewhere completely hidden, that has to handle this issue with its left back. You should be able to do that within six months, by implementing such things. If that's what you want. It's gonna cost a lot of money this way. There's a lot of bureaucracy about it, and believe me, you're just putting the problem away, not solving it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u23	So, for the third time today, I ask who else is joining the general debate. Thank you, so for the third time, I am ending the general debate. If there is no interest in the final words, I will begin the debate in detail. And here I will ask the rapporteur, I must base my opinion on having the proposal repeated in detail in the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u24	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I propose a reduction in the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u25	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Stanjura is also reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u26	I would like to sign up in a detailed debate to the amendment that is being held in the system under House Document No 1412. He's the one who's suggesting we step out of it. [[unintelligible]] It won't give me at least three sentences of comment. The minister actually said that the state and the ministry did everything and that they did the delay because the technical control stations didn't make it. That's what you said here. I just don't believe it. Maybe some didn't make it, but even those tech control stations certainly followed the law when he was in the legislative process that they were 18 months old. And you're saying he's gonna be totally fine in 12 years. Let's see if there's another extension proposal in a few months. However, in my opinion, it is not fair to blame the delay on those who operate technical inspection stations and to blame the failure of the Ministry of Transport on those who act under the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-002-015.u27	I thank Mr Stanjur. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no request, so I conclude a detailed debate. I ask for the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. We will therefore vote on the rapporteur's proposal to shorten the deadline to 48 hours between second and third readings. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Before they come, I will offer an apology: Mrs Olga Havlová apologizes from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting between 18 and 22.45 hours. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline for third reading to 48 hours. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 105, 148 Members registered, for 71, against 7, the proposal was not accepted. Since the proposal was not accepted, I end second reading of the bill. The next point to be addressed is point number
