ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and other related laws /German press 351/ - first reading For the record, this hearing was suspended in the general debate on Tuesday 4. 11. I ask that the rapporteur's position be taken by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, who is already standing at the speaker's counter, and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, as Madam President has already said, draft law No. 458/2000 Coll., was already once opened and interrupted in the general debate of the first reading. That's why my opening word will be very short and I won't repeat what I said at the first hearing. The Government is presenting to you, honourable Members, a proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act. It is an extensive amendment to the law, which also includes proposals to regulate other related laws. In particular, it is Act 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy, which is factually very closely linked to the Energy Act. Furthermore, we propose to amend Act No. 406/2000 Coll., on energy management, into which the relevant provisions relating to the State Energy Inspection should be newly included. It is also proposed to amend Act No. 261/2007 Coll., on the stabilisation of public budgets, from which we propose that the provisions on exemption from electricity tax be deleted. The amendment also concerns Act No. 189/1999 Coll., on the emergency stocks of oil and other laws that are now related to the said legislation. There has already been a rather detailed debate on this proposal, which I can respond to, but I will not. I just want to say two things briefly. Sometimes there have been proposals that this law should be limited only to the implementation of EU rights, including so-called. Infringements. I would like to inform the Members of Parliament what are the main causes of the changes in this law, because this can be interesting. Above all, the biggest mass of changes is the amendment to the new Civil Code and the Commercial Corporations Act, which is 27 percent of the changes. Specification of the deadline and legislative technical changes 18 percent of changes. Payment selection scheme and other experience 18 %. Consumer protection 15 per cent. Administrative offenses 9 percent. Implementation of EU law, including the opening of proceedings with the Czech Republic for breach of the Accession Treaty infringements only 8 percent. The extension of the ERO competences 3.2 % and only 1.8 % is devoted to the establishment of the ERO Board. The second point I would like to comment on. There was a debate about the needs of the ER Council. I would just like to inform that from 21 EU Member States that have something similar to the regulatory authority, 18 of them have this advice outside the Czech Republic. It is not limited to three countries - Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary. I think that's information that speaks for itself. That's all for the introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u3	Thank you. I am asking the rapporteur. Is he interested? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is quite significant from the point of view, it is complex and, of course, has a major impact not only on the energy world, but also on the world of industry and families, i.e. households in the Czech Republic. For this reason, I think it will be necessary to maintain a proper hearing, i.e. a time limit for the hearing. I've registered various inspirational ideas to shorten the discussion, but I don't think that's possible enough. As rapporteur, I will certainly propose if this amendment reaches second reading so that a timetable for discussion is laid down on the Economic Committee, i.e. for the submission of amendments that will undoubtedly be heard. At that time we will certainly organize a seminar, an open seminar in the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I would therefore like to continue to consult this amendment with the broad professional public. The Energy Sub-Committee will sit down, and we must undoubtedly also accept that we will be in 2015 and, if I am not mistaken, all the amendments that will be made to plenary at second reading will have to be renegotiated by the Economic Committee. For this reason, it is clear that the ambition to shorten the discussion of this extensive amendment is odd, and therefore we must give time for a very precise technical discussion of this amendment. Finally, I would like to ask you, even in line with what the Minister said here, that this is largely about implementing European law, to release this standard to second reading and to devote ourselves to professional work on committees, seminars and subcommittees, and then, of course, we will recommend to the Chamber of Deputies further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u5	Thank you. It is not, therefore, that we will continue the interrupted general debate. I have two factual points here - Mr Radim Fiala and then Minister Mládek. [[Member Fiala prefers the minister.]] Excellent. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u6	I would just like to confirm Mr Urban's words that we need to discuss this in due course. My office would not dare to propose a shortening, because it has already been very long and complicated in the Legislative Council. It's a heavy material, and I'm definitely not gonna propose any shortening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u7	I, too, thank you, and now I ask for a microphone with a proper application for Mr Kučera's debate. Please prepare Mrs Havlová and then Mr Černoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a document before us, which, I dare say, is quite extensive. It's a few hundred pages, and I don't know if any of you have ever been able to read it all, or willing, except for those who are quite interested in it. The bill contains almost or possibly more than 500 amendments. Five hundred amendments to this amendment! This amendment will undoubtedly have a huge impact on the environmental sustainability of energy -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u9	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but the noise here is really significant. I'll wait a little while for the House to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u10	Thus, as I said, it will have a huge impact on the environmental sustainability of energy, it will have an impact on the competitiveness of industry, it will have an impact on final energy prices, and therefore pockets and wallets of citizens of the Czech Republic. It will newly charge payments for renewable energy sources or support them. There are a number of changes and a number of amendments that are not related to each other and form a pretty explosive mixture that is being shifted, or an effort to move it forward to work on the committees. To tell you the truth, it's quite a mystery to me why this extensive, unhomogeneous and poorly negotiated amendment is presented to the House in this state. We still have vivid memories and, more or less, the case is still alive now, when a similar novel, and it is a novel called. The EIA, the effects, the impacts on the environment, was almost completed in four parliamentary committees. A similar fate awaits this amendment to the Energy Act. When I say that this amendment is unprepared, and I have already mentioned it here in my point of fact, when we started discussing this point, please look at the explanatory memorandum, which is called the Final Report on the Impact Assessment of Regulation under the RIA Guidelines on the draft amendment of the Act. If, for example, we change support for renewable resources in this amendment, change and set fees for the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities, simplify the conditions for the generation of electricity with installed power and set additional parameters, we can see here that the impact on the state budget and other public budgets does not have this amendment. He doesn't! As I said before, for example, we are changing our relationship to support renewable sources, we are abolishing the support for decentral electricity production because of the so-called. impenetrability of public interest, which will certainly also have a direct impact on both the state budget and the environment. When we look at the explanatory report I'm talking about, environmental impacts: No. I can't imagine what would have more impact on the environment than an amendment to the Energy Act. And with such a poorly processed explanatory report, the Minister of Industry Mládek comes here and says to us: honourable Members, make it your own image. I will, of course, touch on other parts of this amendment, and that is so much discussed by the controversial establishment of the Energy Regulatory Authority Board. The Council is to be five members and the term of office of the members is to be five years. Here's a quote from the novel. A member of the board must have a Master's university education and seven years' experience was energy, three of which was in the leading position. The Council shall be appointed by the Government. The Council shall approve the ERU's operational plan, the draft budget, the final account, the activity report, etc. The present President of the Energy Regulatory Office will become President of the Council, a model for the establishment of the Board is a similar arrangement in the telecommunications sector according to the explanatory report. In my opinion and text, the amendment is a model rather of the College of the Supreme Audit Office or the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank. In my opinion, this is not a systemically correct step, because the ERÚ is rather an executive body, unlike the Czech National Bank or the SAO, and the establishment of this board will have a great risk of dilution the ERÚ management responsibility. Today, the President is responsible for the work of the Energy Regulatory Office. After the proposed change, the collective body will be responsible for the ERU's activities. It's about as if the minister wasn't at the head of the ministry, but some council of the ministry that would take its decisions. I would like to point out that, even in the neighbouring states, Germany and Austria, the executive role of the President and Vice-Presidents is separate from the role of the supervisory board. [[12.00 hours]] I've talked a few times about the changes the novel brings. This means that the fee for ERU activities is increasing, that the conditions for electricity production are simplified, that the protection zones of energy equipment are being adjusted, and I will again mention the very inconsistent explanatory report. However, I would like to touch even more on the harmonisation regulation, which is a change in the way of payment to promote renewable energy sources. The existing aid method was found to be discriminatory against imported electricity from renewable sources, i.e. from other countries. Therefore, the payment will not be collected in the price of the electricity supplied, but in the price for the trailer space according to the amount of the reserved power input or the nominal value of the main circuit breaker. During the transitional period until the full introduction of the new system, the market operator will refund the amount corresponding to the payment to support renewable energy to those who demonstrate that they are withdrawing energy from renewable sources from abroad. I'd say that's pretty desperate and easily exploitable. The explanatory memorandum shall quantify the cost of the State budget related to the change in the system of selection of funds to support the production of electricity from renewable sources and other supported resources to 2,4 billion. in 2015 and to 4.8 billion. in 2016. That's what I'm quoting from the explanatory note here. Just to conclude, a little comment. The aid for decentral electricity production is hereby withdrawn due to the alleged impenetrability of the public interest. The closure of operational support to the decentralised electricity committees - there it is, I believe, and here I see it, a little over 19,000 electricity producers, who were in 2013 - should therefore be terminated. On the other hand, there is a trend that is called decentralization. I also consider this step rather unhappy. As I mentioned here at the beginning, the amendment thus prepared by the Minister of Industry, Mr Mládek, is an unprepared amendment when I say this very politely, and will actually be subjected to a literally shrink of amendments in the committees, which will, of course, come from the professional public, and as we have also witnessed in the discussion of the amendment to the Environmental Impact Act, also from the Ministry through Members. Given the very bad amendment that Minister Mládek is proposing to us here, I would suggest that we return this amendment to the government for revision. I think that's a fair decision. When the government here presents us with an amendment that is discussed, which removes the most serious errors, it will be less weight on the committees and less weight on the need for Members to redesign this amendment with their parliamentary proposals. So I repeat once again - I propose to return this amendment to the government to recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u11	I thank Mr Kučer. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the debate, allow me to state my apologies. Minister Dan Ťok apologizes from 11 to 16 o'clock, Mr Stanislav Grospič from 13 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mrs Martina Berdychová from 11 o'clock on health grounds and Mr Votava for personal reasons from 12.30 between 11 and 14.30 apologizes for the proceedings Mr Petr Kořenek. I have yet another apology - Mrs Pastuchová from 11.30 to 12.15, Mr Klaška from 11 a.m. for work reasons, Mrs Markéta Adamová from 11 a.m. to 12 a.m. extended the morning apology. And the Home Secretary apologizes for attending all day. That was an apology. We will continue with Mrs Olga Havlová's speech. President Tomio Okamura will outrun the strategist colleague with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u12	Dear ladies, gentlemen, I have been expressing myself on this a few weeks ago, I believe, but it has somehow been inappropriately interrupted not by our fault, so the arguments need to be stressed a little bit again, why we stand as Dawn on the bill a little bit, I would say - or very modestly. Basically, I agree that the existing energy law needs to be adapted, which is quite clear. But I must say that, from our point of view, this law is another legislative asshole, over which we will certainly spend longer time here, as evidenced by the interruption in the previous discussion and the huge positive or negative reactions that have already started in this discussion. Basically, the fact that this law is wrong is consistent with the entire professional public. I mean energy, entrepreneurs, and I mean the Energy Regulatory Authority. We organized because we are dealing with this topic in the Dawn, in the House seminar, which was, I would say, full to burst. It was organized by a colleague from Dawn Olga Havlová and there were really parties for and against. There was a huge number of comments. I don't want to hold off on a very long speech. If I were to name them all here from that long seminar, we would actually be here until this afternoon, so I would really pull out the essentials. From our point of view, this is another attempt by the government coalition to continue to politicize another part of the state administration or state organisations after the service law. In particular, in our view, the law seeks to politicise the management of the Energy Regulatory Authority. He's setting up a board to control him. And this advice again - this is the model that we have seen here in the pale blue of the Service Act - is to appoint a government on a proposal from the Minister of Industry and Trade. And what's remarkable about it, which wouldn't be so remarkable in some situations, but most importantly, there are no clear and concrete reasons for the appeal of the councilmen. This means, unfortunately, once again, that when the proceedings get out of hand, the councilman can basically be dismissed on the basis of some unfathomable reasons and he can continue some kind of politicization or some political pressure on the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is our original complaint, which we do not like very much. That means there's a threat of politicizing the Energy Regulatory Authority, which, as we know, is under enormous pressure. It was also about the solar business, with which, of course, we also disagree in Dawn. But we certainly refuse to continue or keep quiet about other similar trends. When politicians once failed to cope with the situation, we see it in the solar business, and basically right now, the politicians should still be in charge of the Energy Regulatory Office, which, anyway, is already being denied for various reasons. So what we're seeing here is why some political council is going to be created here, which is supposed to weaken the position of Director of the Energy Regulatory Office, we see that this is about politicizing the whole thing, and basically, when I put it bluntly, to be easy to manipulate both the board members and the work of the Energy Regulatory Office. Basically, I've already mentioned the analogy with the service law here, but all I have to say is that the government here is trying to eliminate the independence of another office and transfer another office to its jurisdiction. I understand, of course, why in quotes. There's a government political task that says we have to complete Temelín, or a block in Dukovany. In order to justify this, we need to start increasing electricity on a political command. [[12.10 hours]] It will also be necessary in the near future to reconstruct grids, which are often, in quotation marks, completely inhabited, and it will also need to be paid by consumers instead of those who are collecting profits from their use today. In other words, the government is preparing another tunnel for the citizens' wallets. But I'll get to that right away in the next one. In our opinion, the law will make electricity more expensive for those who save the most. They'll improve the terms of the big customers at the expense of the small ones. Perhaps the most serious proposed change, I will be specific, concerns the contribution to renewable resources. This contribution of approximately 44 billion. CZK per year is now paid by electricity consumers in part in the payment for the used kilowatt hour and partly from the state budget. The difference between the current calculation of the contribution and the newly proposed one appears that the contributions to subsidising renewable energy sources will not be derived from the amount of consumption but from the reserved capacity of the connection to the network. At present, all customers pay a uniform rate from the owners of the chat rooms to the steelworks. The amount of the contribution to green energy and other supported types of electricity is derived from the amount of consumption and reaches CZK 495 per megawatt hour consumed. According to the proposal, the amount of payments should be derived from the highest measured consumption in the case of large customers and from the power of the main circuit breaker for households and other small customers. The planned system thus clearly disadvantages consumers with lower energy consumption, i.e. typically few and savings households. And that's the second complaint. The first complaint is the politicalization of the office, the implementation of the political council, with which, in the light of Dawn, even after the service law has been demonstrated here, we really cannot agree with this, especially when the clear conditions for the appeal of the councilmen are not precisely to be manipulated, and the second complaint is that the planned proposal will disadvantage consumers with lower energy consumption, it is precisely a small number and savings household. Since ordinary households no longer use electricity for heating or water heating, so savings households, low budget households, can also be socially weaker fellow citizens, so they will pay between CZK 1000 and 1500 for supported energy sources. That means a thousand crowns. But next time, the situation is supposed to look something like this. Common households with a 25-amper circuit breaker will pay around 1200 CZK regardless of the amount of energy consumed. Thus, the result of the changes can be a limitation of the motivation for energy savings, which, of course, is our next complaint. We really can't agree with that. This is indeed a trend that seems quite opposite to what should be right. This is what we are doing to make this proposal more expensive to those households that are cheap, few-numbered, often socially weaker, and basically to be able to act energy-responsiblely, not only economically, but also socially. I have read somewhere that I am the only one laying down this law, since I have already listed several major negatives, the fundamental comments of the Úsvit movement, why at this stage we simply cannot support this law - and again I say, we are proposing it, and I have already suggested it here last time, but the negotiations have been suspended, we are proposing, and it is a procedural proposal, to return this law to the completion of the government. By one law, it is mentioned, is a paragraph which allows customers within fourteen days to withdraw from the contract. Unfortunately, when we thought about this, and it was discussed at our seminar, where, as I said, the parties participated in both for and against, there were, of course, representatives of the Energy Regulatory Office and many other people, so this good also shows that there is a lot of trouble. For consumers, this means signing a disadvantageous contract, but the fact that it is disadvantageous, of course, you will not know immediately, especially if you are not an informed consumer, which is the majority, but of course it will be found in practice, a few months after the consumer has already lost the opportunity to withdraw from the contract. Logically. The billing will come, etc. In addition, distributors themselves warn against confusion because one customer may have valid contracts with several suppliers at once. Then another thing that needs to be discussed and not settled. I don't think if I think a little bit about what we've been up against, I'm not sure this is going to be discussed as part of a second reading. It seems to us that these are such fundamental shortcomings that are not at all - so either there will be long-shot discussions and various interruptions and possible obstructions, I don't know who and how, but in the second reading. And I don't want to have any more service laws and stuff like that. So it would be a good idea for this to be done so that things don't rush and work out in a text that's a little more widely accepted, especially by the professional public, not just by us politicians, and it's not supposed to be here, I'd say, a legislative bastard that's gonna cause a huge amount of problems. Thanks to the resistance of the Energy Regulatory Authority, and I mean, I'm just drawing up the whole diction of the law, it's already changed in the law, for example. one passage that required the Energy Regulatory Authority to ensure that energy companies were financially stable. So again, the information I'm saying here isn't from Okamurův's head, it's from the seminar's head, the participants' heads. So translated into Czech, the Energy Regulatory Office should be concerned that private companies have profits and do not go into losses. This, of course, raises the question of what it is, then, whether they even wrote this law or did not cooperate with lobbyists on it. I think these are the opening remarks I have here. I have more, of course, but I'll save it for the next performance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u13	Thank you to Chairman Tomie Okamur. Mrs Olga Havlová will speak in the debate. Mr. Marek Černoch will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, the main problem with the amendment of the law is, in my view, that it is based on the interests of the monopoly. There is an increase in pressure on the Energy Regulatory Authority to decide in their interests. This means that profits will grow to foreign owners for the power distribution paid by our regular customer. The Energy Regulatory Authority is to defend the equal position of all participants in the market and is the guarantor of a stable investment environment. He's a price watchman who's supposed to be deboned in his powers, and he's threatening to raise prices. The government deliberately reduces the powers of this watchdog for the benefit of foreign owners of distribution networks and companies, which basically means that the priority is to make money from large monopolies. We already have the highest electricity distribution prices in Europe. The primary task of the Energy Regulatory Authority, i.e. the protection of ordinary consumers, is to get completely sidetracked. Instead of watching the dog's prices of electricity heat, gas, the ERU will be the watchdog of the profits of energy companies. The chair's personal responsibility will be replaced by collective irresponsibleness, i.e. some advice, where experts will no longer lead, but politicians, and the only criterion is higher education. I am very concerned about how the government is pushing energy law. I want to criticise not only the very nature of the law, but also the legislative process by which the law is to be approved. As has already been said, on the subject of the Energy Act, I held a seminar where the main guest of the seminar was the Chair of the Energy Regulatory Office, Alena Vitásková, who criticized the law very hard. I would like to quote her words, which said: "The proposed amendment to the Energy Act, which is presented to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, is an asshole who will have a negative impact on the energy market, the economy of the Czech Republic, and a negative impact on prices for final consumers. There was something similar here a few years ago, which was admitted by the photovoltaic boom, which probably prepared by the same group." And I would quote further: "The amendment to the Energy Act leads to a crippling of the ERU's activities, causing a legislatively unstable environment in the field of energy, causing chaos and damaging consumers." That's the end of the quote. [[12.20 hours]] Another problem is the Energy Regulatory Authority's own Council, which is designed to destabilize and disfunctionalise the Office. It is not at all stated who is in charge of the Office, and the current office of the President is cancelled. The ERU Council has unclear competence and lower professional requirements on its members, such as the ERU Council could also lead a political scientist. This is an obvious attempt to politicize the Office. The loss of the Authority's independence from political power is in sharp conflict with the European Commission's request, and the Prime Minister has also been brought to the attention of the Director of European Regulators. There is a great danger that this proposal could further increase crime into state structures. The Security Information Service report also warns against this trend. I must say that I have been suspected of preparing this law from the outset. It cannot be said that the amendment went through the standard legislative process as outlined by the Minister during the submission. Over a thousand comments from 40 different entities were made in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. The question is, what does the quality of the proposed amendment say? It is also unusual that a number of changes came into the law at the last minute and without proper discussion. It was also very surprising that the law was included in an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and is to be discussed at the legal time. In my view, on the contrary, this legislation should go through a proper discussion and be justified in detail, particularly in view of the effects on the work of the Energy Regulatory Authority, which I believe has been trying to fight for consumer rights for recent years. Energy law affects the wallet of every citizen of the Czech Republic through electricity, gas and heat prices. It is the bill for these energies that is a vital item in each family's budget. As we all know, the price of energy has often increased in our country under very strange circumstances. I can't imagine how I would explain to the citizens if the price of electricity and other energy were to rise fundamentally again in the future. Today, the Energy Regulatory Authority is headed by Mrs Vitásková's functional monitoring dog of energy prices. Unfortunately, this amendment will turn the ERU into not the watchdog's citizens' wallet, but the watchdog's energy companies' profits. For this reason, I suggest that The Chamber of Deputies did not let the material discussed into second reading and returned it to the government for revision. If this proposal is not adopted, I propose that a vote be taken on the extension of the committee procedure for a maximum period of 90 days. We'll be able to at least correct the biggest flaws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u15	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová. With a factual remark, Mr Karel Šidlo - or? With a proper application. A colleague of Marek Černoch is in front of you, so you have to wait, colleague. Mr Marek Černoch and then Mr Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Just for a very short time, because everything has already been said. For the reasons that have fallen here, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies do not release the material under discussion into second reading and return it to the Government for re-evaluation. And ideally for the government to pull it off itself and make a novel, and a big novel. I therefore propose that it be discussed in the committees and a maximum period of 90 days, as far as possible, to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u17	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Now, Mr Karel Šidlo, with a proper application for the debate. Last logged in so far. Suppose we make it to 12:30. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members of the government, esteemed colleagues, allow me, when discussing such a complex amendment to the Energy Act, I choose from my memory that whenever the Energy Act is being discussed, it has always been a complex amendment, because it interferes very significantly not only with the economy of the Czech Republic, but with a wide range of business plans in the Czech Republic. It's always complicated. It's difficult. The only thing I welcome is that this amendment is intersecting in all other laws related to energy, and at the same time we are discussing the Act on supported energy sources. This amendment may be comprehensively remembered for all the necessary changes, as there have always been the most problems. Of course, the complexity of this amendment is that it has a large number of amendment points and not all of them result from the regulation of the European Commission or the European Parliament on energy efficiency, transparency and integrity of the wholesale energy market and, where appropriate, guidelines for trans-European energy networks. It is also logical that the Ministry of Industry and Trade tried to put further knowledge into the amendment, which brought practice, and I also understand how individual entities prevent these changes from being accepted in such a wide range and draw attention to the shortcomings that may arise in practice. I took the liberty of picking only a few notes that relate to the content of this amendment, which I consider, virtually. As a KSČM club, we consider it necessary for discussion, and I welcome the rapporteur's words, because I think that this comprehensive amendment really deserves a proper process of discussion, as well as the way in which it proposed involvement in the public debate through the seminar and, of course, on the basis of these findings, which will be organised by, for example, the Economic Committee, as well as the intensive involvement of the Sub-Committee on Energy. I think that one of the important moments is protecting consumers' interests. There is a precisely defined passage that still applies today, but basically one can say that it is a big problem what intersects paragraphs 2, 19 and 50 and according to lawyers and their interpretation it can lead to all contracts between end customers and energy traders changing. Unfortunately, this is a large volume of about 5 million contracts, and I fear that, after the experience we had with market liberalisation and electricity distribution, there will be a significantly unclear situation for these contracts, especially for customers. Another thing I consider to be very hostile to customers is that the deadline for termination of the deadline for termination and termination of the contract is changing. I think this has a very negative impact on the fact that the 14-day deadline has only been reduced for a period between the signing of the contract and the entry into force of the contract. Another problem moment is the energy regulatory authority fee, although I understand that there must be some way of replacing the electricity tax, and on the other hand, I perceive that this is quite different from that of an energy market operator. The regulatory period is also one of the key moments that is there for regulated entities because the five-year period is set. Unfortunately, there is no alternative to its modification. The Energy Authority's council has been discussed here. I would perhaps draw attention to just one moment, which I consider to be very technically problematic, and that is the wording of Section 17b, where the position of President of the ERO is abolished, while in section 17f it is being worked with. I will not forgive myself, in conclusion, to be very short, the last thing I consider to be a mistake already in the previous amendment to the Energy Act, and this, in my view, is a very unsythematic take-over of responsibility by the Energy Regulatory Authority as a supervisory authority, which is the State Energy Inspection. It continues, so those three pillars, which should regulate, set rules and control the energy sector, are constantly thickening and turning towards the Energy Regulatory Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u19	I thank Mr Karel Šidl. Now with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade. After that, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u20	I would like to thank you for the discussion. Ask to be released for second reading, and I promise I will respond to all suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u21	Is this fellow Laudát reporting or is he withdrawing his application? I'm gonna have to quit in a minute, so spare me, 'cause we got another point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u22	I will not paralyze the House's negotiations, although I wanted to speak to some points and to the overall context. However, I would ask the rapporteur to register that I propose the rejection of the law at first reading, in case it fails, so an extension of the deadline to 90 days. At the commandment of the committees, I suggest that, in addition to the economics, this be dealt with constitutionally, because there is a transposition of the Civil Code, social, because I would like to see this engineering at last, this strange engineering being projected, that someone should say about the real impact on the Social Committee, even if it may seem to you that I want something to build up. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, since it is 12:30 and we have a fixed ballot, I must interrupt this point. A colleague of the committees is still reporting. But I will interrupt the item before the end of the debate so that you can make proposals. There's nothing I can do about it, because it's the House's decision. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u24	I have two working proposals: for the House to decide by vote that there have been extraordinary circumstances, and if it passes, they will move the elections after the debate has been completed and the first reading of this amendment of the law. I think it's possible to do that in a procedural way, of course, depending on the will of the House. The Vice-President can't influence this on his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u25	Thank you. At least you helped me solve the situation because I wanted to make it happen, but I couldn't. So there will now be a vote on the emergency situation and whether we can extend the negotiations on this law. First vote number 165, this is an emergency situation for which we will postpone the item by a few minutes. I've started voting 165. I'm asking who's in favour of a situation like this. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 165. Of the present 152 for 111, versus 1. The motion was accepted. So we're going to vote that before the election block starts, we're going to finish point 17, which means the amendment to the Energy Act. I have begun voting 166 and I ask who is in favour of this procedural proposal and postpone the election block. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 166. Of the present 153 for 112, against no one. Then we can continue. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. Of course, I have a specially defined window for the committees in the Rules of Procedure, or the decision on committees is a matter that will only be after the first procedural proposals. Please, rapporteur, read us the proposals that we have here to decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u26	Before I do this, Mr Vice-President, given that I thank you for creating at least a little time, allow me to comment very briefly on the debate for which I also thank you. There were many myths in it, and let's say one-sided views, to put it diplomatically. Then allow at least a very short comment. As regards payments and renewables from abroad. On the contrary, this law deals with the fact that no one can abuse the fact that it supplies energy from abroad and has been reimbursed here with a contribution to renewable resources. That's for Mr. Kučera's address. Then I want to say that it has been said many times that the law will make renewables more expensive. It's not true. We've already put CZK 495 in a megawatt hour, and this law doesn't break this line. On the contrary, it limits any additional payments for renewable resources. As far as the ERÚ are concerned, just one comment. Solar business, the share of the ERO in the fact that it fell so drastically and dramatically for the Czech Republic, is at least 20%, perhaps larger. The part about it being so wrong is given - and I'll tell you why I think so, and you can verify it. In 2006, the methodology for calculating and charging renewables changed dramatically and in 2006 there was a very significant increase in the fees for renewables. And that methodology wasn't imposed on the ERÚ, that was their job, but it's nothing. 495 kroner also applies to the ERÚ and to all. Let's make one more point. The Energy Regulatory Office, colleagues, does not determine the price, the price is composed of three components. First, power electricity, that is, the generation of the electricity that is determined by the market, that is, by the stock exchange, when we talk about electricity. This power electricity is about half of that piece of the price. Then they are renewables, i.e. renewables charges, as I said. These are covered by the amount of CZK 495 and the proposal does not break it, on the contrary. And then it's the cost of distribution, it's the only opportunity to express itself with the ERO, but in terms of control, because distributors can only include in that price what is given by the individual regulations. The ERÚ is here to control distributors, which is just to not count something else and excess. So the role of the ERO is, of course, irreplaceable. If he's in the form of one boss or a board composed of experts, that role doesn't change at all from the point of view of independence. On the contrary, I think it is moving the Energy Regulatory Authority and the Czech Republic between the more advanced countries of the European Union. I think it will be clear, and it has always been in the case of the Energy Act, that different interests will intersect here, and those interests will, of course, be interpreted by individual Members, who are reincarnated in various amendments. That's what it is and it will be. That's what I said. The Economic Committee, a seminar to which, of course, I invite all of you who are interested in dealing with the energy law. And that is what this honourable House is here to decide on the amendments. So I look forward to a professional discussion. As the Minister said, I am open to all the proposals that will be made, and I think we should address them first and foremost from a professional point of view. And, of course, they also have their political conventions, so this will then be reflected in the vote on amendments and the law as a whole. So I'm hoping we'll release the law to second reading, to the expert debate, and we can look forward to it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u27	Thank you for the rapporteur's final speech and I just ask that he check the individual voting proposals according to his remarks. The first proposal we should vote on is the motion to adjourn, which I have put forward. And in this respect, I do not insist on it, given that there was a promise from the Economic Committee about the seminar I requested. Then we would vote to reject, i.e. to return the appellants to complete the rejection, to extend the deadline by 30 days, and then I would ask which committees, apart from what Mr Laudát said in the debate, would deal with the bill. [[12.40 hours]] Mr. rapporteur, have I read all of them? Because it was an adjourned bill. Do you have the same remarks as me on the procedure for the final vote? If you do not have any other comments, then we will first consider the vote tabled by Mr Tomio Okamura and colleague Kučera, Mrs Havlová and others, to return the proposal for completion. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of Members present is settled, we will vote. First of all, the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, which was several times. We will decide in the vote the order number 167 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 167 of the 130 present for 32, against 59. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the motion to reject the proposal that has been tabled in the debate. I've started the vote on order 168 and I'm asking who's in favour. Sorry, I checked you out again. Please log in with your ID cards. So we can vote in the 168 serial number that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the proposed bill. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 168 of the present 135 for 32, against 86. The motion was not accepted. We would now vote on the extension of the 30-day time limit for discussion, in the 169-order vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of extending the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 169 of 135 present for 39, against 51. The motion was not accepted. We will consider proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee. I note the proposal made in the debate for the Committee on Budgets. Now, my colleague Radim Fiala, Mrs Havlová, Mr Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you be included in the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u29	The Agricultural Committee. Mrs Havlová and then Mr Böhnisch. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u30	A 30-day extension has been voted on, and I have proposed an extension of 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u31	That's impossible. In the vote under the Rules of Procedure Act it is possible either to shorten the period by 30 days, with the agreement of the appellant and to a shorter part, and to extend only 30 days to 90 days, no more law allows. I really can't do this. Now, then, Mr Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. It will not be surprising, I dare ask for the commandment also to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u33	Yes, the Environment Committee. Mr. Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u34	I'm just supporting my colleague, Fiala. I was going to ask the same thing to go to the agricultural committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u35	Okay, so we're going to vote gradually on the Economic Committee, the Committee on Budgets, the Agricultural Committee and the Committee on the Environment. Mr Jeroný Tejc still checking in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u36	Thank you for the floor. I have not put forward a proposal, but I will agree with it, but, if I remember correctly, there has been a proposal for a constitutional committee in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u37	Thank you. Yeah, the D.A.P. The rapporteur shall complete the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u38	I, Mr Vice-President, have recorded another committee, and this is a social one from Mr Laudát. [[Slight cheer in the hall.]] We will also have to take a vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u39	Okay, Social Policy Committee. Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u40	No offense. But since January 1st, we have the Institute of Guarantee Committee. Any committee can take what they want. Seems a little pointless to me. I think it's a good thing he's going to be a guarantee committee institute. We do not have to vote on six committees because each committee takes initiative without being ordered by the House to discuss the law. No offense. I just wanted to clarify the situation. I would still like to propose a petition committee. That's the last one we've forgotten, but I'm not suggesting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u41	Thank you. We don't need to talk about the Institute of Guarantee Committee. It is a regular proposal made in the debate on the basis of this question. My colleague, Mr Laudát, will complete the proposals that I did not notice in his rapid performance. I apologize to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u42	Mr Vice-President, not with priority rights. I don't know what you're laughing at at the Social Committee. This just suggests that someone here doesn't know what a basic social item is, the basic expenditure of a family and an individual. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u43	Of course. I think that only those who have not read Sections 11 and 17 have laughed, which, of course, concerns consumer protection. In this respect, I will repeat the committees: the Economic Committee, the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Agriculture, the Constitutional Committee, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Social Policy. Yes? No one else. We will therefore vote, in the vote order number 170 - Economic Committee, the commandment. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 170 of 136 for 134, the proposal was adopted. Now, the Committee on Budgets. Voting order number 171, which I have begun. Who's up for the budget committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 171 of 136 present for 98, against 13. The motion was accepted. Agricultural Committee. I have begun the vote by order number 172 and I ask who is for the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 172 of 135 for 113, against 56. The motion was accepted. The Constitutional Committee. Voting order number 173, which I have begun. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 173 of 136 present for 93, against 14. This proposal has also been adopted. We will continue the vote by the Committee on the Environment by order number 174, which I have begun. Who is for the commandment of the Environment Committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 174 of 136 present for 122, against 9. The motion was accepted. The final vote will be on the commandment of the Social Policy Committee. I've started the vote with order number 175, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 175 of the presence 136 for 105, against 10. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Economic, Budget, Agricultural, Constitutional Law, the Environment and Social Policy. The hearing period is 60 days under the law. Please, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u44	I want to congratulate all the committees that have acquired this material into their own agenda. Please, you have a lot to do at vánoce. I wish you a nice holiday otherwise, but it has about 600 pages, so it will be good to discuss this professionally so that you can study this material as much as possible. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-004-017.u45	Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister and finish with item 17. According to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will deal with the second round of the elections, item number
