ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u1	54. Government bill amending Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended /German press 304/ - first reading The Minister of Justice Helena Válková will also present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u2	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, this bill is, of course, much more debatable than the previous proposal, where we are merely implementing the European directive. I am aware of this by submitting a proposal which does not mean a comprehensive amendment to the Act on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons No 418/2011, but a "only" proposal which amends the regime by which a legal person can be brought before a criminal court in the sense that the law should provide, in the event of your consent, a list of acts for which a legal person is not criminally responsible cannot be prosecuted and, on the contrary, all other offences may be punishable. The current regime was the opposite. Let me think a little bit about history, because it will show us better than the arguments that might look like a purpose, a result, and at the same time the proposal I'm making here. During the adoption of the Act on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons, an option was originally chosen limiting the criminality of legal persons only to those cases where the introduction of criminal liability required international obligations of the Czech Republic or this resulted directly from Union legislation. This list gradually spread to tax offences and then to the Chamber of Deputies for three more economic crimes selected. However, the current list, which contains Section 7 of the Law on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons, is problematic because it does not contain those offences which can be assumed to be typically committed by a legal person, such as a consumer offence. We have returned here several times to the philosophy of the law that is now in force, so we have discussed why it is necessary to extend this list to certain specific offences. I have always spoken in this context, and I have said: let us wait until we have a more comprehensive amendment, so that we do not constantly deal with the sneaky amendment of the regulation, in which it will be difficult to navigate what is actually and since, at least for the layman, for example, the actress of a law firm. The absence of certain offences in the current list can therefore also lead to a problem in the qualification of negotiations. It was in response to these problems that the Ministry of Justice faced repeated demands for the expansion of the existing list contained in Section 7. The Ministry therefore proposes an existing list of criminal offences which a legal person may commit, no longer extend. And right here is the core of the proposal I'm presenting to you. We will change the approach to this issue in the sense that, in the future, legal persons should be fundamentally responsible for all crimes except those for whom this will be expressly excluded by law. Instead of a positive list of offences for which a legal person may be criminally prosecuted, the law should contain a negative list of offences that cannot be attributed to a legal person. However, it is not proposed that a radical change in the sense that a legal person should be liable for the same crimes as a natural person, because logically for certain offences of their commission by a legal person either is not at all considered in the form of participation, e.g. the murder of a newborn child by a mother, a classic case, or so closely linked to the perpetrator as a natural person, that it is difficult to construct, in which cases it would be an act in the interest or in the activity of a legal person, even if it cannot be ruled out completely or on its behalf, such as military offences. For certain offences where criminal liability is proposed to be excluded, criminal penalties do not appear appropriate or desirable in terms of the application of the ultima ratio principle. In such cases, it is fully sufficient to prosecute the natural person himself. The proposed list of offences for which a legal person cannot be prosecuted is thus an expression of a particular criminal policy. This is not a list of offences that could never be committed by a legal person as such, or a list of those offences for which it will not be possible to put a legal person before a criminal court, includes offences that could be committed by a legal person but, for criminally-political reasons, we do not think that this would be appropriate. A working group consisting of representatives of professional groups such as the Czech Bar Association, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of the Interior was created during the creation of this proposal. This group has agreed to the fundamental change in the concept. I remind you that some Western European countries have also gone through this path, from a negative list to a positive one. France is proof of this. We also dealt with the Confederation of Industry and Transport, which had some comments. As far as we can, I suppose we've dealt with them by explaining to them that it's not unnecessary criminalization of legal entities, that it's something else. The fact that we do not have to constantly amend in order to make it clear and clear legislation, as well as pointing out that legal entities are currently failing to prosecute criminally according to the list already contained in the relevant law, and thus the fact that the law is generally regarded as ineffective, formal, does not deliver a preventive role. If there is any interest, I can briefly summarize some of the arguments that led us to change the approach described, but I would like to describe, at least briefly, those offences which will be excluded from the criminal liability of a legal person. The first group represents those crimes where the offence is not committed at all, as the legal person cannot commit it in the light of the wording of the facts. I've already talked about this. It is clear that only a natural person, often one who meets a particular characteristic or ability, can commit the offences. In addition to the crime of murdering a newborn child, it is a crime of killing, a drunken crime, a crime of leaving a child or a entrusted person. The second group consists of offences where criminal liability of legal persons is excluded because the characteristics of the facts of these offences are so closely linked to the perpetrator of a natural person that it would be really difficult to construct in which cases the conduct would be in the interest or within the activities of or on behalf of the legal person. We also propose to exclude the criminal liability of legal entities for selected groups of offences with a specific or special entity. While the fact that the perpetrator of certain offences must have a particular character or special status does not generally preclude anyone else as an organizer, guide or helper from participating in such offences, it is sufficient, in the view of the petitioner, to apply criminal repression only to specific natural persons. It is not appropriate to attribute these acts to legal persons themselves because they are rather excesses, not to acts which were in the interest or within the scope of the legal person's activities or which would have been done on its behalf. As an example, I will mention the crime of abuse of state representation and international organisation or the crime of treason. [[16.10 hours]] Moreover, with regard to the perpetrator's person, it is proposed to exclude the criminal liability of legal persons for crimes against the defence of the State referred to in Section 3 of Title IX. special parts of the Criminal Code, with the exception of the offence of violation of personal and substantive jurisdiction for the defence of the State pursuant to Section 322 of the Criminal Code. After all, a certain duty here in defending the state can also be imposed on a legal person. It is then a criminal offence against the liability referred to in the specific part of Title XI. the criminal code, in the case of military offences referred to in the special section in Title XII. The penal code is the same thing. Although a lawyer may theoretically participate in these offences, it is sufficient, in these cases from the point of view of the social need, to draw criminal responsibility for specific natural persons, as is the case so far. Finally, for some crimes, criminal liability is proposed to be excluded because criminal sanctions in terms of the application of the ultima ratio principle mean criminal repression only in the extreme case where other means of law cannot ensure effective protection, so we recommend that these acts committed by legal persons cannot be criminalised. An example is participation in suicide or a crime of slander. In this crime of slander, let me stop by. Again, it is a foreign experience where we know that in some countries where the crime of slander has also been allowed to prosecute legal persons, there has been an escalation of criminal charges against competitors, various publishing companies, for example, which has paralyzed this business environment so much that these countries, some of them, have decided once again to exclude criminal liability of legal persons for the criminal offence of slander and to leave only the criminal liability of a natural person. koneckonců all, there has already been a discussion about the controversial crime of defamation in the Chamber of Deputies in past periods. Otherwise, of course, I have an overview of the individual offences where we propose the exclusion of criminal liability of legal persons, including argumentation, and if necessary, I will be happy to give you a more detailed introduction to the reasons. As a general rule, this proposal would, in the event of its approval, entail the introduction of criminal liability, or the extension of the criminal liability of legal persons for all criminal acts enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the exception of those which will be listed and which can be broken down into those groups that I have appointed. For your information, I have instructed the prosecutors, the courts have given us an overview of the applicability, the application in practice of the law on criminal liability of legal persons, and the preliminary results that I have at my disposal do indeed document the very small, low effectiveness of the law. Either this could mean a speculative conclusion that legal entities in the Czech Republic do not commit crime, or it is one of the arguments for extending the scope of criminal proceedings to those that are most frequently committed. And they're obviously not the ones we have in the current list in Section 7 of Law No. 418/2011 Sb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Marie Benešová, to take the floor. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has made a thorough presentation of this government proposal. It must be recalled once again that the philosophy of the original law is changing here so that instead of a positive list of crimes, there is a negative list, which is a bit of a revolutionary solution. I'm just gonna remember that there was a parliamentary motion here, and we've been supplementing some of the crimes. The Minister has promised to prepare a government proposal, which she has fulfilled, and we expect a huge debate on this government proposal. I cannot fail to recall that we have a number of reservations from the various authorities on this government solution. Critical voices are still echoing from the Confederation of Industry and Transport, which I received last week. Then there is a critical voice from the Office for the Protection of Competition, by the Czech Bar Association, and I have recorded a very sharp article by Professor Jelínek from the Prague Law Faculty in bulletin number 9, which I have here, so anyone who is interested can see. I myself have had Professor Jelínek's analysis processed, because I am not a specialist on this issue, and I expect that there will be a rich discussion on this issue in the constitutional committee, where the matter should be presented and discussed. What we need to add here is that the impact on the state budget will essentially not be great. Madam Secretary didn't quote it here. There's an estimate of 120,000. Basically, it's just gonna be a modification of the information system, so it shouldn't be expensive. But the philosophy of reverse thinking in that law is probably going to be a problem. I myself suggest that this government proposal be released for second reading and directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee, where we have to deal with the objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening up a general debate, and before I give the floor, I will read one note. Mrs Nováková apologizes from 16 to 19 o'clock for work reasons. I'm registering two applications for the debate. Mr Blažek and Mr Chvojka are with the first. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u6	Thank you for the floor. You know, as you don't get any younger, but you get older, so it gets more and more sensitive to change. I guess that has something to do with age. I am not as radical as the old Jewish proverb that says: Every change is for the worse. I don't think so. However, when some changes are happening, I do not like - she said it actually, my colleague Benešová - revolutionary changes, because what is being presented is, to some extent, a revolution. And it's a certain leap, and it's a leap into the unknown. I would just point out that history, as the Minister said, and point out that we didn't go through decades without prosecuting legal entities, not for hundreds of years, that would probably be inaccurate, but they did. Okay, it's a trend, that's how it's introduced. I don't want to say it's a pretty pointless thing to say, but what's being brought up by this government proposal right now actually means an incredible extension of the list of what business people might be for, for example, for example, and now I'm going to say the word - being investigated. This means that today some business entity, apart from the many different controls it has already had today, from various tax and other bodies, so we are adding police and prosecutors for further crimes, without the police and prosecutors at this point in time actually knowing how they will apply criminal activity. [[16.20 hours]] That has many risks. One of them is, of course, that these provisions, if they are approved in this way, will be abused in the business struggle, as it is customary for us, where private disputes are often replaced by the fact that the other one is driven before some state authorities. The second thing is that basically everything that can happen today, not only in terms of business entities, but I will talk mainly about them, what all kinds of materials, documents and everything that is happening in these companies, what they can demand, we add other bodies that can demand everything, but this time often with police and state representative powers. You know, I often hear and defend here, I don't like these flat-rate judgments like the work of the police or the prosecutor's office. However, it is true that in a few cases the other party, which we do not talk about so often, is more of an abuse of state power, and we are putting another instrument in the hands of the police and prosecutors who can, and now I will not say that deliberately, but out of ignorance of the matter, of trying the terrain to apply the right to living beings - now please, I do not think that the company is a living being, but on entities that really exist, without any analysis of how the law works up to now, with just a small list of crimes that exist. Madam Secretary said she'd bring in some kind of analysis. That's okay, but I think we should only deal with this law when the analysis is on the table and it's here, because during the process, the analyses may be made, but I think it should be clear from the start. And the fact that, for example, some prosecutors who may be on a committee, Madam Secretary, are in favour, I understand. They'll be for spreading anything where state power expands. There's probably nothing new about that or anything surprising. I'm a little surprised, I didn't see the comments that the Bar Association agreed, but that's for a different discussion. So I don't talk too long. I don't think we're going anywhere without some analysis. I'll ask the House for a deeper thought about sending it back to the realm where it hasn't been. I think that our general problem is not so much that the state is weak, or - for God's sake, I don't want to talk to the YES movement now, I don't want to be so understood that the state doesn't work as it should. But he's sometimes weak where he's supposed to be strong, and strong is where he's supposed to be weak. And I think that we are now talking about the parts where the state can bother over the peace that is needed and necessary in the state in which we live, and that is the institutions that are completely unprepared to do so on behalf of the state, but with the authority of the state. That's why I'm making one proposal that I'm assuming won't pass, but I'll give it to you. So I'm making a motion to return the petitioner or the petitioner for revision. If this proposal fails, because it is a very important law, I would suggest at least extending the deadline by 30 days for committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u7	Thank you and we will continue the debate. Mr Chvojka and Mr Schwarz are now registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would follow up on the ministerial series when the Minister and the former two ministers, Mrs Ex-minister Benešová and Mr Ex-minister Blažek, spoke. I remember when today's present law, virtually. The amendment we are discussing was adopted in the previous term of office of this House, I believe, in 2011. At that time, this law was a child of the then Minister of Justice, Mr Pospíšil. At the time, the government, virtually. Members who have approved this law have chosen a solution to determine the extent of criminalisation of legal persons' actions, according to which they have set out in Section 7 (1) of the Act. 1 so-called an exhaustive list of offences for which a legal person may be held liable. This list includes a total of 84 crimes or crimes in the version adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, and I am not sure if the number is valid, but it is over 80 for which criminal liability of legal persons is taken into account. This catalogue of offences is final and cannot be interpreted in any way. Now the Justice Department comes up with a different concept. She indicated it to my honored colleague, Mrs. Benešová. It's a concept called. General criminal liability of corporations. It is proposed that the criminal liability of legal persons should be determined in principle for all offences other than those referred to tax. In principle, I agree that the criminal liability of legal persons should be extended so that legal persons are under greater supervision, and I agree that this law has been opened. However, and once again I follow up on my honored colleague Benešová, it should be said that I have read a lot of different analyses and expert articles. Of course, I have also received various letters, expertly conceived, from different groups and those in a certain way against this reverse principle, as they warn today, or offer us to think about it. I would not say that I agree with them 100%, but I do think it is necessary to at least introduce you to some of the reservations. For example, an interesting article by Professor Jelínek was published in the September issue of the Advocacy Bulletin. He is a person who is, of course, an authority in criminal law, because he is the head of the Department of Criminal Law here at the Faculty of Law in Prague, and he is also a person who has experience in creating criminal law. He, of course, describes the genesis in this article, as I described it, of the law, how the principle of what is proposed arose, and he here, for example, has this reservation: "The proposal envisages legal persons being responsible for all crimes against life and health, with the exception of the murder of a newborn child by a mother, participation in suicide, failure to provide assistance to a driver of a means of transport and crimes against a woman's pregnancy. It would mean that a legal person could be responsible, for example, for the crime of manslaughter in accordance with Section 141 of the Criminal Code, for the deliberate killing of another person in a severe upset, fear, shock, confusion, or other excusable movement of mind, or for the crime of a fight under Section 158 of the Criminal Code - who intentionally endangers life or health by participating in a fight. It is only a pity that the explanatory memorandum on the proposal for a new regulation does not specify how often, for example, it is often. These two offences occur in the practice of the conduct of legal persons so that we can at least have an idea of the degree of latency in the activities of legal persons. In its essence, therefore, the adoption of the proposed legislation will mean the extensive criminalisation of legal entities' actions and the practical introduction of the general criminal liability of legal entities. I believe," and I quote Professor Jelínek, "I consider that the proposed legislation is not correct and sufficiently thought out, because it will tend in application practice to prosecute legal persons for all crimes not listed in the exceptions, regardless of whether or not a legal person can commit them, which may be an actual question for a long series of offences, as I have pointed out in the above two anti-life and health offences." End of quote. I think that this amendment of the law should be released for second reading, and in the constitutional law committee we should be very detailed and widely concerned with this amendment, because as I have already shot before, e.g. On the basis of this article from the Journal of Advocates from a respected authority in the field of criminal law, I think there are a lot of questions about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u9	Thank you. The rapporteur Mrs Benešová and then Mr Schwarz came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u10	I didn't want to speak on this subject at first, but it won't, because I know the implications of the practice and I'm really afraid that the voices that are now sounding, the critical voices, are right, and that is that there will be criminalisation of legal entities and the purpose of liquidation of competing companies. And I already see it in one case. It is a case that resulted from David Rath's case, where legal persons are prosecuted, and I ask why there is a selection. Someone's forgiven, somebody's not. So far, I haven't looked into why the D.A. is prosecuting some legal persons and others who, as they say, paddle the same way, just can't keep up. It's also about people and the D.A.'s work, and I'm afraid we'd be creating a pretty dangerous weapon here if there's a selection. I myself would probably be in favour of supplementing the existing law on some of the crimes I missed there, that's embezzlement, fraud, and certainly not spreading it anymore. That is, of course, my personal opinion, and I expect all of this to be the subject of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u11	Thank you. I just need to ask if Mr Blažek has the right of priority. You report properly to the debate. Okay. Now, Mr Schwarz, then Mr Blažek and then Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u12	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. It all fell down here, it has been said, but I would like to point out that legal persons and investigations, especially investigations into possible crimes, Mr. ex-minister Blažek spoke of it, are also important for the police, because it really is a big step into the unknown. I worked there myself, and I know that when some of these things changed, I think Minister Chovanec would have something to say in the future, because I don't know if the police are ready to take this step into the unknown. It's gonna take a long time. I know what Mrs. Exministra Benešová was talking about, about companies, about their liquidation. Unfortunately, I've experienced it all in practice. This can be arranged. But, of course, in the past, we have committed ourselves to something, so I welcome legal persons and their criminal responsibility. And I would also like to say here that I would support, personally for myself, the 30-day extension to the committee of the proposal by Mr. ex-minister Blažek, because we will have something to talk about and talk about, what to discuss so that it is properly discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u13	I will only add to your proposal that an extension of more than 20 days may be granted only with the agreement of the appellant. Thank you. Mr Blažek is now joining the debate. Madam Secretary checked in? I'm so sorry. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u14	Thank you. I just wanted to give a brief response so that it would not come to pass in the heat of the debate, what Mr Chvojka, a fellow Member, was talking about here, through you. So, of course, the provision of Section 141 of manslaughter as a privileged crime of murder is among those crimes that are excluded, that is to say, there will be no criminal liability for legal persons. First of all. If we were to go after the individual crimes in this particular way, I think it's better to have a debate on another ground. But I'm ready for the debate here, of course. Thank you for supplementing the economic analysis, because it really won't require any costs. Finally, I just point out once again, my dear colleagues, that this is also a certain position of our government and the Chamber of Deputies on the strong and consistent penalty of criminal acts, regardless of whether they are committed by a natural or legal person, except for the exceptions I have mentioned. I'd hate for two things to be mixed up here. On the one hand, poor judicial practice, fear that the police will not make it, prosecutors will abuse their powers and competences and initiate criminal prosecutions, which will then lead to the liquidation of some companies. Courts will be poorly qualified, there will be innocently convicted legal persons. However, we are talking about a completely different level from that of criminal law, which we should discuss in particular. And I don't want to admit that all the countries that have gone through similar developments as we have and have refused to constantly amend their special laws and extend the list and turn the negative into positive, or eliminate certain crimes, and otherwise for all the others, a legal person can be put before a criminal court that they have gone the wrong way. Well, if we admit it, we also admit that the Czech Republic is a very specific country, that we cannot rely on criminal justice in the broad sense of the word, and if this is a consensus and if we come to that during the negotiations, I will, of course, take note of it and we will constantly expand the list of offences and we will deal with this issue repeatedly. I'm just pointing it out here. It is precisely to give, as an applicant, room for an exchange of views of a professional nature, I hope, more than that of a political nature, that I agree with what Mr Blažek, Mr Vice-President, has proposed here - to extend the 30-day time limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u15	I thank you and register your consent to extend the time limit for the hearing. Before we go any further, I'll read one apology. Today, 5. 11, from the meeting of the Parliament of the Czech Republic from 17.45 until the end of the meeting day, the engineer Václav Klučka, Mr. Next for the debate is Mr Blažek. - I'm sorry, Mr Kalousek is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u16	I am very sorry to enter this point, but I feel obliged to inform the Chamber of Deputies that I have reached out to the State Department, Deputy Drulák, who has assured me that through the Deputy Office in Moscow, he will inform our partners about our resolution. For the sake of calmness of conscience, I have also reached out to Vice-President Filip, who I have also informed about our resolution. He told me that I was an asshole, which I accepted with satisfaction as a confirmation that he understood our resolution and that he understood it. [[Laughter from the right side of the courtroom.]] So please, this information has been passed on everywhere it was supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u17	We thank the President for informing us about the development of the situation, and I will now ask Mr Blažek to speak in the debate. Mr Laudát will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u18	Well, I'll get back to the discussion. Madam Secretary, thank you for your helpfulness with regard to the extension of the hearing period, because I think it is necessary. And maybe I'll just say that it's really a dispute, not a battle or a war, about criminal policy, actually. I'm gonna make this very simple. Either we think we're going to expand and expand the paragraphs that we can prosecute, and it will lead to better, or we think that the authorities just need to get used to it, now I think active in criminal proceedings, so that they can even apply this type to these people, that is, legal, and we're going to go one step at a time, which I think is better. I don't think the results that the secretary here said are general yet. They have a lot to do with the fact that neither the police nor the prosecutor's office, and I don't know now, the courts, they just haven't gotten used to applying this thing at all. And now, essentially, we're going to put a huge expansion of the facts on them. I don't think it'll lead to anything better. I think that the situation will lead to worse in the sense that they will - that's just the case - now I don't want to say the word of the employees, I'll say the workers, or if you want the police, they'd rather avoid it if they don't know how to do it. And I would like to see the state authorities first get used to the way in which to prosecute, even the narrow part of the crime, and then expand, if necessary. They haven't gotten used to anything yet, they don't have the results, and now we're gonna give them some other big options. The other possibility of abuse, that's what I've been talking about, that's not what I'm saying. But I also want to look at it with the view of those law enforcement agencies where I fear that it is very simple, and I think the government has made it a little easier for itself to just say "well, so everything except..." rather than thinking that it really will lead to an improvement in some real state, that means that there will be no criminal activity. And I think that by doing it in the horizon, and I'm willing to say, for a few years, nothing's gonna get better, because the app is gonna be behind, well, I'd say really years, and I'd rather go one step at a time than put it all on top of them, because there's a risk that nothing will apply at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u19	Thank you. Mr Laudát and Mr Vondráček are also in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm afraid this could be a bigger bomb to our not-so-fair social and economic environment than we think. I welcome the sympathy of the Minister that she is willing to discuss it, to discuss it, and if I understand it well, or to change philosophy. I would argue too much, even though it does not seem so at first sight, that in the list of committees to which this will be ordered, the economic committee should find itself, even though I know how burdened and overloaded it is. We have not been presented with any analysis of the detailed state of what is going on with paying taxes, what is going on with the economic activity of companies in the Czech Republic. There are always some rough estimates, rather we learn it from the media, how many companies have registered differently, how many companies have gone somewhere else. In an environment where we have one deterrent example so far, and this is the UOHS, which is already provenly abused in the fight for public procurement today, we can get into a situation where we can involve both police and justice in this competitive fight. Of course, in the economy, and in the Czech environment, especially when after the approval of any law, the spotted goose always hears, or she doesn't hear, she starts to figure out how to bypass the standard, so what happens in the world rarely, so here we are witnessing annual to bizarre structures, how to avoid paying taxes, there get some advantage, so someone is registering from pension security for a week, a day, a month - I don't know exactly, I don't remember how the case was - to get a different advantage and so on. Of course, business is starting to happen more and more in the virtual world. New technologies are coming in. So I would rather argue that it should always be consistently assessed when someone invents a model that is immoral in terms of general social morality, and the Minister or the Minister of Justice, who will be at that time, would come and actually add a crime to the amendment of the law, but on a flat-rate basis expose business entities to or assess whether police or prosecutors, what is and what is not a crime - we are commuting to it today and daily in the Czech Republic. It's not only about the legal uncertainty of companies, it's about the insecurity of people. I don't know if we want to build a country of fear, where everyone will be countervailable, because who knows the mile of legal standards today, and now we're going to add to that to a much larger extent of company, or whether to give certainty and be strictly defined: if you break this, you're going to pay for it. So I am a representative and a supporter of the second journey. And we're enjoying it here and in the House of Publishing. Then take how many cases would be over, but they don't quit. Here were dramatic situations, huge emotions, passions around buying overpriced or overpriced Casa aircraft. Today, two or three years have passed since then, and the only person it has served was maybe a few days that have become visible, for another medium that may have had six months, or at least two or three months, I don't remember exactly what to write about, and over and over and over again. I see those unhappy people who have to pay for lawyers who don't know if they go to court, then experts pick up on it, because every side starts to get expert opinions, and that's just a fraction of what can happen now. Of course we will support the extension of the deadline. And I really don't think it's just legislative. If we want a competitive republic, we want to invent new products, take risks in the economy, risk uncertain products, and projects mean having legal cover. Unfortunately, in our country, the atmosphere has been created that whatever fails is automatically behind it, there is an automatic tunnel behind it, and we have completely suppressed the constitutional principle that no one can be punished for business failure if then he is unable to fulfil his financial obligations. The other thing is, he's gonna take the money, he's gonna use it for something else, and he's gonna sneak it somewhere, so I'm not defending it, but I'm defending the fact that you don't have to do business. If that were not the case, then we would all prosper, all companies would be great, we would not need a bankruptcy law etc. etc. Always the firm's stability was paramount to have the economic security of the company, that is, financial collateral, etc. It's been an expensive year since another parameter has been promoted to the stability of the company, and that's legal security. We have such a complex right, and it's not just our problem, it's the problem of the whole developed world, that how many companies can be sure that they follow the law when they interpret a number of things in the law until the trial? Projects that would serve and calm down the business environment have not been implemented, so that when someone has uncertainty, for example, the competent ministry should give him an explanation of whether or not he is violating. Of course, the court has the last word, but when a person asks for a binding interpretation, and then even if it were wrong, at least he shouldn't be prosecuted anymore, or the relevant legal person. I'm not really sure here. It will certainly have significant economic implications. The government coalition has to change its mind. Absurdly out of the opposition position, if we abandon our ideology, that means freedom, security of citizens, their legal certainty, so the more you build fear, become insecurity, the sooner the economy loses more and companies go away or many companies don't come here. They won't go into an uncertain legal environment. When talking about the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, and it should definitely be dealt with by the Constitutional Legal Committee, one of the increasingly frequent objections that falls is prematurely initiated criminal proceedings. With this in mind, I would also like the standard to be considered. I have nothing against it and we will support it when the Ministry of Justice, based on the Ministry of Finance, Industry and Trade and others, or from the general social sphere, gets and knows that there is some new type of fraud going on here, so the minister or minister concerned would come, the amendment will be made, the list will be added. But having cops or judges interpret in business what is and what is not a crime is a very risky and tricky matter. You know how the various cases of tunneled funds end now - in a volatile world, when one day you have some value of shares, you build a plan for that, and in a week, a month it may not be true, because there is a detachment of value, such as the price of shares or various financial products of the company from actual property, actual performance. For this reason, I would like to see it from an economic point of view, especially when there are risks of different business unions, industrial chambers and so on, the Chamber of Commerce, to be assessed or that the Ministry of Justice should give an economic analysis to the constitutional committee as well. Madam Secretary, it would really be good if someone had done this if it didn't exist, and I believe that there are analyses as has been and was not, and how fair it was and was not, and with what result the existing law has applied in relation to the criminal liability of companies. Here it fell that it did not, but perhaps it would be good to get some qualitative and quantitative listings. And I say we have too many laws. If less would ever mean more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm registering your motion for discussion with the Economic Committee. I have here a factual remark from Mr Pavel Plzák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u22	Thank you, Mr President. From the government, there is a Minister - a respected member of the government, esteemed colleagues, colleagues. I'm not a lawyer, I tried to listen carefully and get to the point. And my contribution isn't as much a contribution as a question. Because where the discussions slipped, I realized that there was a concern that somebody was gonna go after businessmen and so on. But I'm asking if I got it right, and maybe I didn't. So if I'm doing business here as a natural person, I'm covered by some kind of criminal and legal responsibility. And if I set up a limited liability company for a crown, do I have another criminal responsibility? And what's wrong with the fact that these two people who do exactly the same things, except that under another legal personality, they don't equalize them? I just don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u23	Thank you and other participants in the debate is Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u24	Madam Secretary, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I think the debate has been quite long. We've already discussed this at the beginning of the year. If you recall, we were trying to bring new crimes into the current law on criminal liability of legal persons. Madam Secretary has promised to process a complex novel. She did, she put forward a new bill, and we're happy for that. The fact that we are hearing a debate here, whether it is a positive list or a negative list, is, of course, correct, and such a debate should be conducted. So far, we've been leading her mostly by members of the Constitutional Legal Committee. So let's move this debate to where it belongs, probably the Constitutional Committee, possibly. to some other committee that we are voting on, and let's talk about whether we want to remain conservative and stay on the current situation, or try to move forward and have the criminal responsibility of the reverse guard legal entities before we had it so far. Of course, we can also discuss the crimes that should be there and which are not there. For example, the slander was mentioned here. On the contrary, unlike the secretary, I think the rumor should be there. And, of course, we will have such a discussion on the Constitutional Legal Committee afterwards. I am glad that the Minister agrees to extend the deadline, because I think it will certainly be fruitful. And whether the police can do it or not, I don't think there's a need to worry about it. The police are already doing criminal liability for legal persons today, in a limited number. I'm sure the Secretary of State will present us with some statistics. But the fact that he will prosecute or prosecute a larger number of people is nothing new or is nothing burdensome to them, because the facts of the criminal offences that are in the Code of Criminal Procedure remain the same. It is only about whether a person's criminal liability is to be assessed physically or legally. So if I could put in a good word, let's move the debate to the vote, move it to the committees, and let's work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote for sure, but I have two more applications for the debate. The first is Mr Chvojka and then Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna add to my performance. I certainly didn't take my act as a criticism of this law. On the contrary, I wanted to introduce the honourable auditorium and the Minister to the fact that there are other views of the law. That even the views of some criminal authorities, such as Professor Jelínek, are different from that of the Ministry. But that is a completely relevant and legitimate procedure. I'm looking forward to the debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think that's where we're going to talk about these things. I am glad that the deadline has been extended because the Constitutional Committee is a committee of expertise, where expert debates are really taking place. I think this law deserves not only a debate, but a debate that awaits it. I think that many and different institutions will have the right to express their views on the law and that representatives of these institutions will come there. I forgot about that, and I would like to thank the Minister for keeping her promise. Because when a small amendment to the Law on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons was discussed here, she said she was going to submit a comprehensive amendment in autumn. We have it here in place and I am glad that Madam Secretary, respectively. government, it keeps its promises, because that was not always the case in previous times during the previous term of office. It was said that the law would be passed, and then it was submitted in two years. So I appreciate the fact that the Justice Department has fulfilled what it promised and that we have a more complex novel here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u27	I thank you and ask Mr Blažek for his contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u28	Thank you. I may, in response to my colleague Ondráček, make it a little easier, but the first reading in the House is basically about when someone brings a bill for certain reasons and let's say with a certain philosophy or policy, as has been said. The moment it goes from first reading to second reading, this philosophy is essentially preserved. The philosophy is then subverted in committees and beyond, so it actually means that the plaintiff comes here with something, we remake it for him, and that's the end of it. So that's why I'm conducting the debate, that's why I suggested it. I know I can talk about this on the Constitutional Legal Committee, but at a different stage, and that's important. And I don't think we're ready to let go of that philosophy change. That's all. That's why I suggested returning the plaintiff, I'm sorry, plaintiff, I mean the government, now so it's not personal, to return, to have analyses, how it works so far, why it doesn't work. I don't think it works because there's a small list of crimes. I think it doesn't work because the authorities, in principle, approved it by the House ceremonially and the Senate, but they're just avoiding the app because it's something new. And I think that the authorities themselves active in criminal proceedings, and that is important, and the answer to the colleague who spoke before, through you, they do not see the sense that we do. We're going to pass a law here, it's going to be a huge amount of facts, and my concern is that nothing will change with this approach in practice. So I'd rather, and that's why I made the suggestion that the plaintiff think again, why not, if this approach is right and if it's well thought out. I said in advance, I suppose I'll lose this decision or this proposal, and that leaves me with nothing but to have fun but in the debate moved forward, in the next phase of lawmaking on the committee. But that's why I propose what I propose, and that's why I'm saying what I'm saying here that the debate on the committee will be of a different nature, of course. By going through this law at first reading. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u29	Thank you. Mr Ondráček, Mr Chvojka, wants to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u30	So I, Mr President, through you, Mr Blažek. Of course, I know what the purpose of first reading is, and what we can do at second reading within committees. But I also know that there are many things possible in this Chamber of Deputies. Let us remember what has been done with the amendment in the framework of the Service Act and what has finally come out of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u31	Thank you. Now I'll read the note. Today, Mr Adolf Beznoska apologizes from 17.45 to 21:00 for business reasons. Furthermore, from 5 p.m. for personal reasons, Mr Adámek apologizes for today's meeting. Furthermore, from today's meeting between 16 and 23 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Koubek apologizes. Mr Blažek is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u32	Thank you for the floor. This time really briefly, even if the one who says it will be brief, and then here is an hour... But to Mr Ondráček by your means. I didn't mean to lecture, absolutely not. The first reading can be interpreted in different ways. I only took a certain aspect of explaining why. And the other thing you said -- I'm in agreement with you, by your means, I don't want the plaintiff to bring anything, and then it's being redesigned. So I'm already protesting "something" or something, or how it bends down. You see, the Czech one, sometimes a bitch, that's what I have to think about, and that's my mom's Czech. I hope she doesn't... but she sleeps at night and doesn't watch TV, so it'll pass. So I'm trying to stop the plaintiff from thinking about it so we don't have to overstep it on those points. We're in agreement on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u33	Thank you. Given that no one is going forward with the debate or with a factual point of view. That's right. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor. Madam Secretary? The plaintiff does. You have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u34	I would just like to point out briefly, my fellow Members, I think that the proposal which went through the detailed commentary procedure where we have made a number of changes, after all, you have seen that the published article by Professor Jelínek, that one of the critical comments about the crime of killing has already been taken into account. Finally, the majority consensus was obtained by representatives of legal professions. That is why I have presented it to the government, and I have now submitted it to you for assessment. So it is not what it might look like after the discussion, the subject or the proposal of the representative of the academic area - one, two or three who think that we should go the revolutionary way and copy developments in other European countries, because it is the right thing to do. I am convinced that this would be a positive shift and that it would enable us to better comply with legislation, even those protected by criminal law, especially those protected by criminal law, and that means the fundamental values, because criminal law is intended to protect the most important legal goods that we have enshrined in the legal order of the Czech Republic. So I do not think that this law would lead to unnecessary criminalization, on the contrary, I think it would be a kind of symbolism that the Czech Republic is not afraid to go the way that other European countries have already gone and successfully use it. I would really rather bring other issues into the court of constitutional law as well. Thank you for what's gone. I will certainly have the opportunity to comment on this, provided that this proposal is forwarded to you for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u35	Thank you. Mr Laudát is a member of the Parliament with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u36	Thank you. After all, I have to respond and exercise priority rights. I'm so sorry about that. I hate to comment, but there's no other way. You know, I would like, Madam Secretary, that, in this case, those who do business who meet everyday practice should have a significant say, because I would have warned against this, if the academic community understood lawyers, that lawyers should determine how to do business in the Czech Republic. After all, they have this practical life - and God forbid that this country's economy should really be run by lawyers. Of course, for them, it will probably be a huge engraving in the criminalization of companies to represent and sue them, so I understand that they are looking for more and more jobs to make a living and to make a living. There is no comparison between the law and the developed countries in our country. I customary law or business ethics. Definitely different in Germany. I think that there will be a lot of power for any police officer or judge to watch out for what is and is not a criminal offence, because there is an engraving under the skin, in Switzerland too, simply a business failure. It even has its mark. Intelligent or constructive failure. I've said it here a couple of times. The social atmosphere in the Czech Republic is quite different at the moment. And I think that the social atmosphere, and I'm sure you'll give me credit for it, is reflected in the decision-making of the courts, which are very often under the giant pressure of the media. How many times even the criminal lynch is almost organized from the position of the media that need blood, they need negative news. I don't really know if this philosophy at this time and in the Czech Republic... When we have German business ethics or Swiss business ethics, I won't say a word. But we just don't have this ethics in society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-004-054.u37	Thank you. I'll read another note. Today, at 6:30 p.m., Mr Antonín Pavel apologizes for personal reasons. In the course of the debate, a proposal was made to return the proposal to the appellant from Mr Blažek. This is the first proposal we will vote on. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you all out and ask you to come forward again. I'm putting it to a vote... [[There is a noise in the hall among the members of the YES.]] I'm putting it to a vote. Is it working? Okay, thank you. I am putting to the vote who is in favour of returning the proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 166, Members of Parliament and Members 121, on proposal 28. [[versus 73]] The proposal was rejected and the bill was passed for second reading. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee, on the one hand, proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Constitutional Legal Committee and then Mr Laudát made the request to the Economic Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I ask who agrees to submit the proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee for discussion. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 167, Members present 124, in favour of proposal 124. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. I will therefore now vote on who is in favour of the proposal being tabled to be discussed in the Economic Committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? It is voting number 168, Members of Parliament and Members 124, in favour of proposal 99. [[versus 2]] The motion was accepted. There was another proposal during the debate, namely a request for an extension of 30 days. Since the deadline is longer than 20 days, the appellant agreed to this proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of extending the 30-day time limit. Who's against it? It is voting number 169, Members of Parliament and Members 125, in favour of proposal 125. [[against no one]] I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Economic Committee and the time limit for the hearing has been extended by 30 days. That concludes the discussion of this point. [[17.10 hours]] I'm opening another point, and that's it.
