ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 260/ - second reading Until the third time, the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow up on the current process of negotiating the bill, which, in accordance with the Government's programming declaration, cancels the regulatory fee for the recipe and treatment in the outpatient sector, with effect from 1 January 2015. In short, it can be pointed out that these charges were originally enshrined in the rule of law with the intention of preventing the waste of funds for so-called unnecessary care. The related administrative and financial burden affecting both doctors and patients does not correspond to their benefits and ultimately does not meet the objectives for which they were introduced. The proposed legislation therefore aims to abolish regulatory fees in the health sector. Only the regulatory fee for the use of medical emergency services or dental emergency services, which I consider to be justified, will be maintained. The emergency charge is intended primarily to ensure that emergency services, which by their very nature are intended for exceptional use, do not serve as a convenient substitute for the use of the services of practitioners and specialists outside normal office hours. In this case, the regulatory effect is clear and verifiable and ensures that the alert is not abused and that it has sufficient capacity to deal with acute situations. I consider it necessary to clarify in particular the question of how to compensate for the loss of income by health service providers, including pharmacies. As I have previously submitted, in the case of outpatient specialists and practices, compensation will be dealt with by means of a payment decree. Each performance will be assigned a signal code of the clinical examination performed, for which the provider will be 30 CZK, but not more than the amount of the regulatory fees selected in 2013. Similarly in bed care, the failure of regulatory fees will be addressed in the basic remuneration. As regards compensation for the failure of regulatory fees for the prescription in pharmacies, it is intended to address it through the introduction of a special performance to be paid by health insurance companies. When the appropriate performance is added to the list of health performances, the publication of the medicinal product for the prescription will be evaluated at a flat rate. However, as has also been pointed out, in this case, we must consider how high the level of compensation should be and which providers should be entitled to it. While chain and large pharmacies have so called for regulatory fees and, above all, have shown, but have subsequently replaced the amount paid with a discount and have no income from regulatory fees, whose failure should be compensated. At this point, I assume that the total amount that should be compensated for the regulatory fee for the recipe will be a maximum of 800 million. Crowns. As part of the discussion of the proposal in the Committee on Health, an amendment dealing with two areas was adopted. Firstly, it is proposed to supplement the list of health professionals who report health insurance performed under the relevant decree on pharmaceuticals, which can be accepted. Secondly, sanctions are proposed against certain marketing practices in the field of public health insurance medicines, and this idea can also be supported. [[19.30 hours]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal tabled removes the legislation which, in relation to insured people seeking the necessary health services, constitutes an unfair social burden, and I am therefore addressing you with a request for its support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Health. The committee resolution was delivered as a House press 260/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u4	Let me introduce you to resolution 45 of the 9th meeting held on 4 September 2014 on the Government Bill amending Act 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. After the opening words of the Minister of Health doktor Svatopluk Němeček, MBA, the grounds for Deputy Minister for Health doktor Tom Philipp, MBA, the report by doktor Svoboda and after the debate by the Committee on Health first recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, the Committee's rapporteur hereby authorises the Committee's opinion to inform the Chamber of Deputies meeting - which I am doing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have signed up as the first Mrs Marková, please prepare Mr Heger. Before I give the floor to Mrs Marková, there is one more factual point to be dealt with, and that is Mr Štětina's factual point. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. I think that the Minister has satisfied everyone within the scope of his proposal, and I really do not think that an emergency charge can be abolished because this emergency is being abused everywhere in the whole Republic. I know one particular case, it doesn't involve a very well-known insurance company, I'm not going to name it, when one sick person in a year only in emergency rooms, when she got to be brought to the hospital, treated, escaped, etc., is paid 200 grand for it. Nobody cares. The second thing concerns pharmacies. I am also glad that the problem that I have been discussing has been resolved, and others have also said that the loss of those who are dispensing drugs will be compensated. That's a brief thing to say. And I believe that the discussion will, of course, be the same as I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now, please, to Mrs. Marková's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say very briefly about the two amendments that I have tabled and which we have in the House system. Before I begin to justify my proposals, I would just like to remind my predecessor that the emergency room may be abused, but I think that public money has been much more abused, for example. in the case of IZIP, which cost us CZK 1.8 billion. For the E.R., as far as I know, it's going to be a lot less. Now, about the amendment. The government's bill, which we now have before us, is now being abolished, albeit with one exception, all so-called. regulatory fees. I welcome this fact, of course, because KSČM has always encouraged health charges to be abolished. Unfortunately, the only exception to which the appellant insists is the existence of a regulatory emergency service fee. Let me just remind you that the KSČM, and by my mouth, has been fighting against so-called so-called since 2008. regulatory fees. We consider them pointless because patients pay for health care. I would remind you that the complete abolition of regulatory charges is a House press 126, which has been unnegotiated since February of this year in the Chamber of Deputies, is constantly being pushed aside by government bills. Anyway, fees have been introduced as collective blame in the spirit of password patients abuse health care, must be punished, and have been introduced so-called. regulatory fees, they need to pay for this. In the long term, therefore, we propose a complete abolition of regulatory fees, because these unjustifiedly in some patients, especially those who are socially weaker, chronically ill and disabled, are actually aggravating the social situation, and this is also true for those who need health care most of the time. Moreover, practice has clearly shown that regulatory fees did not contribute to the health system in the sense that health would have sufficient funds after the introduction of the fees at once. Leaving a single so-called We consider the regulatory fee to be non-systemic. Moreover, in cases that are most complicated, i.e. when the patient feels the need for health care to draw even outside the so-called. Standard hours. Take the practice hours of some practical doctors. This view is also confirmed in the proposal for the extensive conditions for exemptions from this obligation, which are not yet complete. They don't affect situations at all, e.g. the patient's condition is severe, but cannot be prescribed hospitalization or hospitalization is no longer necessary following an emergency procedure. Similarly, the petitioner does not reflect the situation where maintaining the regulatory fee for emergency services may result in greater abuse of the medical emergency service when the insured person or patient is not to go to the emergency room and pay 90 CZK of the regulatory fee, calls a medical emergency service whose costs are much higher for the public health insurance system, but not only for the public health insurance system, but also for the founders, especially the regions, so that the abuse can already be demonstrated here, but much worse than in other cases. For these reasons, I have taken the liberty of submitting an amendment, alternatively, as Amendment No 1, which completely abolishes the fees, including the emergency charge. The second part of my amendment is optional. It rests on what has been said, namely that the only exception where the appellant insists on further existence is the emergency service fee. It is not conceptually appropriate that, if this regulatory fee remains and only this regulatory fee, its remuneration should be excluded from accounting for the limits, i.e. that this regulatory fee does not, in principle, fulfil any function other than regulatory fees, which will already be abolished by this law, not only by this, but also by the previous ones, and it is only about its use under different conditions. Strictly speaking, it is only a time point which can mean a difference of CZK 60 in the payment of regulatory fees. [[19.40 hours]] In the second part of my amendment, I therefore propose that this regulatory fee, if it remains, should it be added to the limit and the limits be reduced to half. Of course, in this amendment it is also treated in laws that are affected, that means Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll. about resort, branch, corporate and other health insurance companies. For the reasons set out above, which I have really shortened very much, because there has been a lot of talk here in this Chamber of Deputies, I would like to ask you for any support from the first part or the second part of my amendment. Perhaps it would be good if at least some of you remembered their pre-election vows, the promises made by your political parties, and even some of them were winning elections, when you were judging variant A or B of my amendment. Thank you for your attention and I will report to this amendment later in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u9	I thank the lady. I have here an application with the rapporteur's priority right. But before I invite him to the microphone, I still have some factual notes. With the first to the microphone of Mr Kostřica and then please prepare Mr Kasal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to comment on Mrs Marková's speech. I can see a little bit from this when it comes to her attitude that she never really served an emergency where we actually witnessed many, many abuses of this care, whether it were the matrons, who walked at two o'clock in the morning after the shift on ear lavage and so on. Those are all real facts. But what I would be willing to accept and support is that, in certain cases, the doctor who serves on that ER has the possibility not to collect these charges. Because when you think that services are being lost at the time of the flu epidemics in Brno around five or eight people at night with a nosebleed, I would understand that this regulatory fee would certainly not have to be levied, because the patient who bleeds from the nose is certainly not going to come for nothing. The same would mean when it comes to some acute inflammatory disease. There I think there would be an option, and I would be in favour if a doctor on duty had the opportunity to decide that the fee would not be levied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u11	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit. And now I beg you, Mr Kasal, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I only have a brief comment on the performance of my colleague Soňa Marková, which I appreciate, but I just have one thing to say. It was mentioned here that it didn't bring any money, the fees. I would just like to say that for the Pardubice Region in a year for five hospitals it was CZK 50 million. And second point. If someone goes to the ER and calls an RZP ambulance, they'll end up in the hospital anyway, and we're still collecting the 90 crowns. So it's only a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u13	Thank you. And with a factual request to Mrs Marková's microphone. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to lead a controversy here, I just want to make it right that I said it didn't bring money into the system. Not to individual hospitals or doctors, because the medical fee, as we know, is not explicitly written in the law that it returns to the public health insurance system, but remains to those who collect it. So that's a little different. I'm not saying it didn't bring the money, but it didn't bring the money into the public health insurance system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u15	I thank the Member and now, with priority right, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u16	First of all, I would like to say with regret that Mr Komárek is not present, because today I first use the right of priority for my work in the Chamber of Deputies, that is, what he has spoken so against. This is the first time, but the reason is absolutely crucial. I have presented here a report on the health committee's deliberations, and I feel it is my duty to say my own personal report and to say the ODS's position so that I can answer that everyone should look at what they have said in their electoral programmes. We said the same thing all the time. We believe that regulatory fees were meaningful. It is always mentioned only about the money itself, but for example in the field of gynecology the regulatory fee was not burdened with preventive examination. That was free. And the care of women has shifted significantly to preventive examinations, because before they go in there a month earlier just because they have some infinite trouble, they went to a preventive examination, where a whole range of those examinations that are needed were perfectly performed. And if you know that, you know that the prevention of cervical cancer is one of the three preventions that really work and result in a reduction in mortality to this disease. From this point of view, and I could say a whole range of other reasons why those fees were meaningful, I have to say that our position on the fact that the abolition of regulatory fees is wrong, that health will regret it once, as the Minister of Finance has already regretted that hospital fees have been abolished, that it was a mistake. I must state that the ODS will not support this version of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. And I have a de facto Mrs Marková here. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to point out to my previous speaker that, indeed, from the perspective of the ODS, the fees were meaningful, because they should have taught patients that it is common service, not care, but service, that this is common goods for which they have to pay. And whoever just doesn't have the money is unlucky. Yes, from the perspective of ODS, which introduced medical fees, it was very meaningful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u19	Thank you. And now, please, duly signed up for Mr Heger's debate. Please prepare Mr Vyzula. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I must begin by saying that there is only one thing where I agree with Mrs Marková. Too much has been said about regulatory fees in this House. I will not expand it, I just wanted to mention and recall that TOP 09 and STAN were always in favour of maintaining regulatory fees. We have also said that we respect the electoral programme of social democracy, which has long declared this abolition, which is now presented here in the government section of the law, and that we accept it as a legitimate thing, even though we think it is wrong. As regards the amendments tabled in two variants by Mrs Marková, our club will, of course, not agree with them either, because we believe that if somewhere the regulatory effect was quite extraordinary, it was precisely in the area that KSČM wants to completely abolish. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u21	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Vyzula's microphone. Please prepare Mr Koskuba. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will not, of course, discuss whether or not regulatory fees have been in place for a long time. But I quite acknowledge that the discussion has so far been very sophisticated, and I think that since this morning - if it's because we talked about political culture in the morning, I don't know. But anyway, I'm sure I like this discussion better than what was before. I'd just like to point out some facts to the Ministry, but they probably know about it. Anyway, for everyone. The facts are in the numbers. So when we look at how much money goes out of the system because of the abolition of regulatory fees and recipe fees, it's 3.37 billion. A year's worth of crowns. If we look at how much money it's worth to cancel the hospital fee, it's 2.1 billion. Crowns. And together this amount is 5.47 billion. Crowns. If we take that as compensation, we're talking about so-called. Valorisation of the payment for the state insured who has been made is expected to be an annual benefit to the system of 4.2 billion. Crowns. I just want to point out that there's still 1.27 billion left. The crowns that will probably still be mentioned in this House. Since first of all pharmacists report and this is a very sensitive topic, because we know well that large chains of pharmacies did not collect any fees, and yet they survived. On the contrary, small pharmacies could be affected by a blackout. And there's no way we want small pharmacies to end, and at the same time we don't want to put big chains in our pockets. What are our options here? I'll just give you a shortcut. The possibilities are that we're going to talk about either so-called. Dispensation fee, which is basically the same thing as the recipe fee. Any pharmacist takes the box off the shelf, hands it over to the patient and gets a certain fee, which will not be needed in the amount of 30 crowns, will be 10 crowns or 50 crowns, so far nobody knows, or it will be a margin increase, or it could be a performance payment. And here again it is necessary to warn the Ministry that it is necessary to define exactly what the performance will be, how the performance will be defined and how it will be evaluated. And just for that reason, I repeat, so that large chains don't get more and small pharmacies don't lose. Then one more comment. Basically, the limit has already been mentioned by Mrs Marková, but let us also note that if 90 crowns remain as a certain health care fee in standby mode, it is good to define precisely from when until when this obligation will apply. That's one thing. And the second thing is that we are growing abuse of RZP, rapid health assistance, which is much, much more expensive than any other care that burdens the system, maybe even overloads, and it will be good to work on it and then evaluate it properly and also realize it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, please, to Mr Koskuba's microphone. Please prepare Mr. Hovorka. Mr. Ambassador, before I give you my word, I'm going to ask my colleagues to keep their voices down if possible. It's an advanced hour so we don't have to yell at each other here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u24	Thank you, too, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for delaying you at this very late hour, but it is a subject that is very close to me, and I did not have the opportunity to speak to him as it would be in the first hearing, because I was not present in the House on this day. First of all. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I do not represent the official opinion of the ČSSD here, but it is my own opinion, which I have never hidden. It is somewhat different from which direction we are going, and I think it is, and that was the morning debate that the Member has the right to say his opinion, perhaps somewhere the seed will fit in, grow up, and in time we will return to the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not doubt that fees are now being abolished because our party had it as a pre-election promise and promises should be fulfilled. Then, even in this sense, a coalition treaty was signed. So it is understandable again that the charges simply cancel partially and thus must. On the other hand, let's not argue that the charges were not beneficial to the system. I'm sorry, it was from a colleague, but the money went into the system. They went specifically to the person who made the effort. On the other hand, I want colleagues from the right side who say correctly, it's a mistake, because I partly think so too, and they've introduced them. But my colleagues, quite frankly, they weren't so much regulatory fees, I'm sorry, because I've been working in that system for years. We actually subsidized a system that didn't have enough money, and the costs were increasing. And a lot of these charges didn't regulate much, only they helped us survive. Why am I even talking about this? I felt sorry for you from the very beginning, and I think I'm going to surprise the Minister here, because I need to stand up for him here a little bit, because from the very beginning, he was attacked within the coalition that he wasn't handling it very well, that we still couldn't find the reserves there. I personally didn't talk to him about what he, as the former director of the big hospital, thought of his experience, but I understood that he was fulfilling the assignment he was given. And it didn't seem fair to me. And now he's running the system at a time when everything's in crisis. We are committed to this decision, and we are already at second reading, as Professor Vyzula here rightly said, so the system is losing about 5.5 billion. Don't grab me for a million, I'm not an economist. And yes, the professor here also calculated that no matter how much the settlement that has to be paid, the system is going to lose a little bit again, and we're going to look for how we're going to put the money back there. But this money will then go into the system, but they will disappear there like all others, because they will not even be targeted to whoever did it, but they will go there from everyone and everyone, and most importantly, they will not really go there for those who draw on the service. And now we're getting to a sensitive topic where the level of solidarity goes. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to all decent patients in the Czech Republic, but let's face it, the poor people must be strict, as he used to say, I suspect, Švejk. And the people, when they have something free, I'm sorry, a certain part of it takes advantage of it. Yes. The beats are the honest ones. They're always beaten by the honest ones. But you have repeatedly heard from many mouths that certain services are being abused and overused. And it would be fake to admit that this isn't happening. [[20.00 hours]] In one of the institutions in which we represent you and whose materials are not yet public and for which the Minister was often criticized by one of our partners, we have requested, as has been said, that we are not doing anything there, so we are discussing it there and that materials have been requested, where I can tell you, apart from that, that statistics have shown that some 40 percent of the performance of the practitioners has decreased, I think, in the reporting, but 40 percent of the use of what you have been talking about has increased. Ambulance. And ladies and gentlemen, when we're talking about fees, notice that we've canceled them, maybe even the ones that shouldn't have been, but we've left only one. And don't be offended - in this regard I say for myself, I don't think it's systemic, and of course the money will be missing and it will manifest itself. Now you're wondering how we're gonna set the time. Yes, that's a more specific discussion, so I'll allow you to learn from my work because I haven't completely abandoned my work, you know, and I can only speak for Prague. For us, from Friday afternoon to Sunday, hell happens. Total hell! Because they drive one ambulance after another and they drive nonsense. But a while ago, we were discussing whether I wasn't here at all, the ambulance was supposed to have a doctor. Then they said they'd save the paramedics to save us. Well, we've got paramedics there, and it turns out that when the paramedics come to someone who tells them he's sick, they don't have a legislative right to say sir, you're just hysterical, you stay home, and leave. He's just covering up for the... what do you call "politely"? [[Trouble tells Mr. Jandak.]] Before trouble, yes, not to use a crude word. They'll load up and drive away. We have statistics. It increased regardless of the fact that there were regulatory fees. That's it, everyone, we're up 200 percent! I'm not even kidding! 200 percent! That's where I said it. But I have already understood that when someone here speaks from practice and there are political assignments, no one, of course, listens to him. I think we have to regulate this in some way! And you know what it looks like? Large hospitals in Prague, and outside it will probably be similar, the first aid medical service has always volunteered. Whoever is honest and comes to the first aid medical service will, oddly enough, pay 90 crowns. What's the emergency gonna do? If she doesn't get in trouble, she's gonna send him to that hospital. But that's where he doesn't pay any more. You're surprised that the tests are increasing, that costs are increasing. Well, because at night, you do everything static. For you who are laymen, so all the examinations, we have to do something, because otherwise someone will judge us again, accuse us, so that's all the extra costs. But I'm sorry if anyone decides to use this service, and here you clearly have evidence that this is happening, so I think it's our duty to regulate its abuse. That means it's a question if one fee is CZK 90. Plus, it's kind of a practical administrative thing. Why was he even set at 90 crowns? I guess three times thirty is ninety. But not only do we have a lot of work to do with these people, but we still have to return the ten crowns. Like, with all due respect, for ten crowns, and the urinal's always there, even the toilet. Guys, I'm not denouncing it right now, but here, 10 crowns are normally paid for peeing, and then we're discussing ten crowns. I'm sorry, that seems a little funny to me. And I waited for a change to be discussed, that maybe someone would say at least, "It's gonna be a hundred." And now I apologize again to all decent patients, but I would expect, for example, to pay an increased tax from Friday, 3:00 p.m. to Monday morning! Because all the staff we keep in hospitals is paid according to completely different salary tables. I'm sure the Minister as Director knows that. Those people are hard to find, they're in limited numbers. And, folks, they have a lot more people there than they do at normal hours. Because they're doing emergency services. They don't take people there to hospitalize. The services are there because if someone gets really sick, they bring him in and the hospital takes him in. But we don't accept 10 percent of these people. So let's say 10 percent, 20 was wrong - but what's the 70 doing there? You've already answered the question! It's very simple. You call an ambulance, you don't have to worry about traffic. He'll take you there. Now, what I'm about to say is ugly, but I want to talk from practice. And to get rid of you, we'll even take you home free of charge, because the distances and the night traffic are not ideal - and the costs are rising again! And hold on to that: there's no one here to discuss, since the patients suffered so much, that there's a paid entry to most hospitals. So whoever's fair and comes to pick up his own relative pays for entering and parking in the hospital. Whoever's smart, gets there with an ambulance and gets taken away by the DMV. Ladies and gentlemen, I could go on like this. I really feel that now is not a good time to change. It was just decided, so people were promised, so they had to happen. However, I hope that in the cultural way that it looks so far, we will return to this issue and instead of such a general one that it destroys someone and so on - so if it really destroys someone, then damn well, it is from this that we have the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which should take care of these poor people who are no longer in hospital! Let's not kid ourselves! We just need to find a way to deal with the abuse, overuse of health care. And we also have to say, whenever I hear here that health care needs to be spared, remember that almost few dare say that the health coin has two sides. That's health, and on the other hand, he's a former patient, now legally a client who's using him. And I think that under certain conditions it really is necessary for the client to feel that he is also using the services that someone is providing for him and that those services are worth something. So I beg you, let's get back to this discussion. And what I said at the beginning: It is sad that then there is talk that the minister simply doesn't have the money, he didn't find it anywhere when we actually took it away from him with this decision. He's got to stuff them from somewhere. Not to mention that then something will cost us more, then that the Governor of the Czech National Bank may devalue us the crown again, which actually costs nothing, but I don't know, we in the hospital, I'm not sure that we buy the wooden spatulas in our necks for the crowns, that it would be from SOLO Sušice, or maybe it failed. It's all just bought for the value, and it all costs more and more! And it's logical that the insurance company pays more and more, and it's all more demanding and demanding. Look only at the equipment of the paramedics! A lot of colleagues here are working on them. I mean, the paramedics that drive, and I'm sorry to those people, they can't know it as laymen, but they're also carrying unnecessary things, they're equipped as a slow, small intensive care unit. That, ladies and gentlemen, costs too! Just don't close your eyes! I don't want to be the one who promises people "all free." I've come to understand that what's totally free isn't much to appreciate. And the sadder it gets when he's taking advantage of it. And here I guarantee you, all you have to do is see who comes to see, and you see what kind of horror starts when an ambulance is behind an ambulance and a nurse drives a person to a person, and they're responsible 24 hours a day for making the right decision. It's just our duty to deal with this. [[20.10 hours]] So I do not just intercede for us to realize that our Minister of Health is not doing anything. Unfortunately, I am also saying this under the pressure of reading today's newspaper and speculating. But that this point will fulfil the coalition agreement, but I am not convinced that we have chosen the right path, and I think we should have changed something there so that it really is regulatory fees and that it will have a different effect than that we have to pour money from somewhere again, and then we are desperately going to ask where to take them. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I have spoken this long and that I have spoken this way as a Social Democrat, but I have spoken this way mainly as a doctor and I apologize to my orange colleagues - it was not against them. They know I've always talked like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u25	Thank you, too. Now we have to deal with four factual points. I will first ask Mr Kostřica for a microphone, then Mr Korte will be prepared, then Mr Nykl and Mrs Černochová as the last one so far. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u26	Thank you. I'll be really short. I really liked my previous speaker's speech. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, not only to the regulatory fees at the time of emergency service. But remember one more impact - that there is always a percentage of people who abuse this advantage free of charge. If it's 10, 15, 20 or 30 percent, it's hard to say. But remember, it's not just a question of the regulatory fee that's not paid, but it's also that the doctor who examines the patient will, of course, charge the insurance company at least the rate of first contact with the patient. So there's a significant increase in public funds. Besides, I don't think any of the doctors would have treated the patient just because he might not have paid him 30 crowns. I don't think anyone would have done this because it would have been a suicide issue for the doctor if he hadn't treated someone just because he hadn't paid him a regulatory fee of CZK 30. Moreover, I believe that at present there is no hospital or institution which, in a legal way, would enforce the unpaid 30 Crown fee, whether it is the assistance of executors or anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u27	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Korte's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u28	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll be even more brief. My field of health is not my field of study, which is why I listened to my colleague Koskuba only in the periphery here in the House. And all of a sudden, when I found out he was quoting from the TOP 09 electoral program. [[Laughter from the right.]] I'm very interested. And I have to say that I agree with absolutely everything he said here, except for one single sentence: we canceled the charges. I reject the inclusion of us. It wasn't us, it was you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u29	Thank you. I'm registering your factual remark, however, you are the fourth in order at this time. So please get to Mr. Nykl's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u30	Thank you for the floor. I've recently declared that I won't talk about regulatory fees, and I'll keep it that way. I would like to ask the Minister, through Madam President, to tell us in the final words how he looks at the so-called. hospitalization fees, because that's what's bothering me and what I think is more important. Because we have developed countries like Austria, Germany, which have 20 billion in their accounts. EUR, and yet they have a hospitalization fee of EUR 10 per day of 28 days per month. And that's definitely the topic that - and I'm behind the coalition - I think we should open up, and really let go of the evergreen of the classic regulatory fees. I was also curious about doktor Koskuba's speech, I wondered where he was going to sit after his speech, whether he was going to sit on the right or left - he went back to his seat. But I think that the topic of hospitalization fees, which are not regulatory, is much, much more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u31	Thank you, and now, please, with the de facto Mrs Černochová. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues, have a nice evening. I think that the debate that is going on both from the left side of the spectrum and from the right side of the spectrum is very interesting, very informative. We learn a lot about what part of social democracy thinks. [[The O.R.'s quieted down.]] Thank you very much for that. I totally agree with what doktor Koskuba said here. And for that reason, I think we should get back to what he said here now! Don't wait. For this reason, I propose that this bill be returned to the committee for further consideration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u33	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. We will vote on it at the end of the general debate. I now ask for a microphone with Mr Kolovratník in fact and then Mr Jandák will be prepared, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u34	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. My domain is the media and traffic, so I won't be talking to health for too long. But through Madam President, Dr Koskuba, I want to thank you for your courage and for your bold words. I am glad that in social democracy Members are, in my opinion, sensible. At the same time, I want to sigh a little bit that it's Thursday at quarter past nine, so the attention of journalists is probably not too big anymore. It's a shame. I want to assure you that there are equally reasonable Members in the ANO movement. And as I hear this debate, it's starting to make sense for us not only to look at this thing politically but also with sound common sense. So I call on other members of social democracy, if they see it the same way, do not be afraid to respond sooner or later. It'll make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u35	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Jandák, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u36	You're good. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I came forward impulsively when I heard from my colleague Korte. Why? The whole health-care problem started with this little weird thing. There's always been a doctor and a patient. And he was a doctor-patient relationship. And then came I don't know who, and said, "No, that's different. He's a patient and a health insurance company. And he's not a patient, he's a client. And the health insurance company is hiring the doctor to do some services for the client. And the patient's relationship, the patient's patient, has disappeared. But maybe it's the beginning of an end or another state of health. But I was gonna say one more thing. I'm sorry about this. That what Koskuba here said as a doctor, his experience, was immediately used for political struggle, because to hell, we have an election again! And that's wrong. [[Quiet in the hall.]] By saying that you praise him, that he quotes from the TOP 09 program - that's seemingly funny, but it's stupid. Don't say it and don't do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u37	I thank you, and now I beg you, Mr Kalousek, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u38	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'd just point out that we were joking around in the machine. We certainly wouldn't have thought of saying that on a microphone. That's what MP Jandák did. But okay. [[Mr Jandak off the microphone: Kort said so.]] But I volunteered for another reason. I'm sorry, colleagues, I'm a simpler man. And I'd like to be clear about that. I consider the abolition of regulatory fees to be completely unfortunate. They're jamming the government coalition's charges. Experts, whom I particularly appreciate as top doctors in social democracy, have come out of YES, considering this to be unfortunate. [[Quiet in the hall.]] So, it's that the regulatory fees cancel the people's, because the coalitions are just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u39	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Koskuba, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for disturbing the House's negotiations this late in the evening, but when we were discussing amendments to the Rules of Procedure, you realize that I actually exceeded the time, exceeded the customs - and you see that you were intrigued. [[Glee in the hall.]] So really consider what we've been saying here and what we've been doing in the morning. First of all. Two. I really assure my colleagues from the TOP 09 that I do not have the need to copy from their electoral program, but that I have even said, in the spirit of democracy, and for that I have apologized to my party, even what I think. That's what parliament is all about. That's how it should work, and I'm glad someone joined me. However, there is a legislative process set up here. Of course, I cannot defend anyone, and it is up to the opposition to vote whether we do not interrupt, but political culture tells me that I cannot raise my hand for this because I have never stood up to this view of my own, and I did not stand up to it in the last parliamentary term, when we also talked about it and we had another government, but even she was not willing to discuss how to change it, of course there were other changes. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't write, I don't want to break the House meeting, and I promise I won't even sink what we promised in the election. On the other hand, I just took the liberty of expressing my opinion, and I think we have other ways to make things right quite quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two further factual points - Mr Kaňkovský and Mr Nykl. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u42	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, only through Madam President would I like to report to the President of the TOP 09, Mr Kalousek, that the coalition negotiations on regulatory fees and their abolition have been very difficult. But certainly KDU-ČSL was not the flagship in this process. However, the coalition agreement is a coalition agreement and we respect it. However, we are certainly open to discuss at least hospitalization fees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u43	Thank you. Now with Mr Nykl in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would like to draw the attention of Mr Kalousek through the President. He looked at me like we're in some kind of trouble with regulatory fees. No, regulatory fees - at this point in time, the YES movement is clearly saying cancel and it was from the beginning. I was talking about hospitalization fees, so his view of me looked like I was in favour of maintaining regulation. I'm an opponent, too. That's because all the countries around here, I said it at first reading, they don't. Nobody has regulatory fees when we go around all the countries and, on the contrary, with hospitalization, we need to start thinking about them. Because what just happened. They're overcrowded with long-term hospitals, rehab units. There's a huge problem moving people around. This is a subject that can be opened to a reasonable degree. Regulatory fees as such - I am clearly saying no for the YES movement, so the view was so useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u45	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Kováčik, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u46	Thank you, Madam President. The serious residues of the government and colleagues, the KSČM MEP, are known among other things, that it has always and has always been strongly opposed to any form of medical fees paid by the patient, inter alia, because it is unconstitutional, inter alia, because it does not regulate anything. And I'm going to keep these specifics now. This is simply to point out that not only the people's vessels hold the flagship to abolish the charges, as Kalousek said, but that we were clear before the people's in this regard, and we are now. We have a bill tabled to completely abolish medical fees, but now we're a little bit after a meeting at the club on the fence. We welcomed the fact that the government coalition has put in the coalition agreement the abolition of at least a large part of the fees, and now I see that the coalition agreement and the positions of individual members of the coalition parties are in some contradiction. I'm considering and I'm going to consider a little bit longer if it doesn't move forward a little bit, if I don't take a break for an hour, maybe, to make room for a relationship in the government coalition, to refine opinions, as with the charges in mind. Don't worry, I'll wait a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u47	Thank you. Now with the de facto Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u48	Thank you for the floor. Through Madam President, I apologise, Mr Nykl. I'm not looking at you anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u49	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Sklenák's mic with de facto effect. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u50	Thank you for the floor. I would like to assure President Kováčik, like all others, that, of course, the coalition's position in this is absolutely uniform. [[Cheer from the right.]] Cancellation of health fees is negotiated in the coalition agreement, it is part of the government's programming declaration. The Government has approved this proposal, which we are discussing here, and will be supported by coalition Members, without a doubt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u51	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Stanjura, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u52	Thank you. We will not whistle a duel of left-wing government, but even more left-wing opposition, who is more in favour of abolishing charges. Please tell me about it. I have two specific questions for the Minister. We've talked about LDN many times. This problem has really arisen. I want to ask if the government wants to deal with this or the Department of Health? Or they just said, we've got them full and those who aren't there today are just unlucky. And the second question. I noticed a speech from the Minister who said that if we cancel the pharmacy fee, we have to compensate for it somehow. In the past few days I have noticed some information that insurance companies should perhaps pay CZK 12 for about one fee. That's what I'd like to say. Who's gonna pay for the money? Those 12 kroner times the number of recipes. I believe the taxpayers. Not as personally as it has been, but simply through the state budget, or through public health insurance. Just to know if this is going to work and if it's going to work from January 1st, because I'm assuming that in some way this measure is going to work. And remember. We've talked about other things here. We pretend that the fees and the money that are missing will be saved. But I think we've already discussed hospital compensation at least twice - 4.5 billion. per year. Now, compensation to pharmacies, now we say we have a full LDN. It means that the real state of affairs is showing that money isn't going to be saved. Some taxpayers will be spared and paid by other taxpayers. So it is simply that the state logically has no money other than taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u53	Thank you, honourable Member. I do not see any facts, so we can continue the proper debate. Mr. Hovorka's microphone, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u54	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fight for health fees seems to be over after seven years. And for those of you who remember these fights in the summer of 2007, just remember that the regulatory fees in the range of 5 billion. became a carrier for the amendment, which completely changed the pricing and payment of medicines in the range of about 70 billion. But now I would like to say what the subject of this amendment is. The amendment is not entirely fair. It does not address the compensation of regulatory fees for children's and adolescents' practitioners, because the compensation was applied to them from about one third of 2009 onwards. And the other way around. As far as compensation for pharmacies is concerned, there is another injustice here, because pharmacies of chains that did not collect fees will also receive compensation. Although fees were not actually collected, they were compensated, they were bonused, and people were counted against the limit of 30 crowns, so unfortunately today there is no mechanism thanks to one official at the Ministry of Health, how to actually germinate, who collected the fees and who did not collect the fees. [[20.30 hours]] But then, in 2007, there was another amendment to Act No. 48, which too many Members have not noticed, was such a minor change, but this allowed insurance undertakings to conclude amendments to contracts by way of derogation from the payment order. On that point, I have decided to table an amendment that I have put into the system under No. 1355, and I'll give him a brief explanation. I'm presenting it for the reason that when it was being introduced so-called. Health reform, although health insurance companies remained fully dependent on public funds that were required by the insured, on the other hand, they were actually fully free to spend the funds. The current situation is as follows: Health insurance companies, including employees, manage almost exclusively with the compulsory funds of their insured persons, when setting annual payments are no longer bound by the regulations of the Ministry of Health, unless otherwise agreed with the provider. In the view of the Competition Authority, health insurance companies are not subject to competition law which would otherwise prevent a market dominant undertaking or more undertakings acting in conformity with selective and discriminatory access to contractual partners. However, when concluding contracts and setting up payments, they are not bound by public procurement law which would otherwise ensure a transparent selection of contractual partners, and health insurance companies do not publish contracts with providers and do not, in practice, provide them with a reference to commercial secrecy to regulatory authorities, which would otherwise allow at least the worst excesses in the exercise of public funds. After the 2005-6 amendments, citizens-insurers no longer have the right to vote directly or to run for office in employees' health insurance companies, which would allow for some democratic control over the behaviour of insurance officials. Therefore, the existing legal situation directly encourages health insurance companies to selectively favour the public money of selected health entrepreneurs, as a general rule with links to the decisive functionaries of insurance companies or to influential policies. The nature of this private enterprise with public money is extremely prone to corruption and there is no public control over the conclusion of individual contracts with healthcare providers. The proposed proposal addresses this unsustainable situation when it gives competence to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance to control these amendments, these treaties. For the sake of completeness, I have tabled this amendment in the Committee on Health, that it was not then approved, and the Minister disagreed with it that his ministry is preparing an amendment that will be transparent and will solve all these problems. I also learned that this interferes with the private relationship between insurance companies and providers and that the Ministry does not have enough people - both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance - to control these contracts and contractual additions. But this is not an argument for such a change not to be made. I can believe that the Ministry will present such an amendment, but I would still like to see the amendment so that I can see whether all the things I propose in this amendment are contained in this amendment and, therefore, whether what I wanted to resolve with this amendment will be dealt with satisfactorily. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize for keeping you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now, please, to Mr. Heger's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the second time I have spoken on this point, but at least accept the apology that this is an expression on a completely different subject, namely the amendment by Mr Hovorka. I respect the Member very much for his diligence and stamina with which he can promote his affairs and sometimes successfully, but in this case I must very much disagree with him and warn all the clubs in this Chamber of Deputies that if this amendment goes through, there will be a huge disaster. I'm not usually used to overreacting, and I don't want to paint the devil on the wall here, really the institute of contractual freedom, which takes precedence over the Ministry of Health's payment decree, is certainly abused in some cases. Historically contractual freedom was used for various ad hoc settlements of shortcomings that were at the start of the system when hospitals did not show - some and giant hospitals were in a huge slump and insurance companies quietly compared them by improving their remuneration compared to the formal situation. Today, this is no longer necessary, but there is still a large number of contractual amendments, which are not only working beyond the framework of the payment decree, but also under the framework that the payment decree provides for. Insurance companies, for example, in the form of package prices for some procedures, try to find providers who are of good quality and provide the service cheaper. The second example on the committee today is certainly the capitalization of practical doctors, which, if any quality criteria are met by insurance companies, are bonified. So variable contractual additions are used to a large extent in the sense of positive and not negative in terms of impacts on the system, but really the possibility of abuse is, and pricing is so complex that it is not entirely possible to get it under control. Now, let me move on to what's at stake on that payment amendment of my own. It is not the ban - the Ministry of Health has repeatedly discussed in the past how to solve the problem and, if necessary, to release this whole passage of contractual freedom, but it always comes across some pros and cons. But this isn't some ideology or some macro-view of the system, this is a brutal administrative risk, which, in the event that the amendment is fulfilled, will mean that tens of thousands of contractual additions per year will have to be at the Ministry of Health and Event. The Ministry of Finance checked and then published. This is generally agreed today, and the publication is also prepared in the amendment of the law that was mentioned here, and we were planning it, and I fully agree with that, but the assessment of individual contracts is administratively unmanageable and all the activities of the Ministry of Health would have collapsed, and yet the requirement of the law would not have succeeded if it had passed as it is. I therefore very much ask you to pay attention to this amendment in order to accept the promise of the Minister of Health, who, if he puts on a microphone here, will be better, as he did today on the Health Committee, that he will solve the problem, but must be dealt with differently than this amendment. And I apologize once again to my colleague Hovorka for being so dramatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u57	Thank you, honourable Member. Now I have two factual points. Mr Vyzula comes with the first and Mr Hovorka with the second. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and co-workers, I'm just gonna cut to the chase. I took a factual note not to delay, so I have to do everything in less than two minutes. What Mr Hovorka has proposed is a matter that we will have to deal with. It's a very serious thing called. vertical chaining, where the insurance undertaking has close contractual relationships, whether it is a medical facility or a pharmacy. And hundreds of millions of crowns are being lost in this system. That's the charge money, and not just that. They're in the electronic precipice and in the next one. The method of getting money for abolishing regulatory fees is several and certainly several of you already have it right in your head. So I believe we're going to deal with this, and the Minister has promised something like that. Unfortunately, I believe that the debate will be much wider than in the abolition of regulatory fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u59	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Hovorka's de facto opinion. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u60	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I also respect the former Minister and colleagues of Professor Heger very much, but he obviously did not have time to study in detail the amendment introduced in the system. It would read there - through, of course, Madam President - that it would not concern practical doctors at all, and so on, because there is a limit of two million crowns. Furthermore, there is a matter or provision that only if the Ministry finds that the supplement is contrary to the payment decree, i.e. it is beyond the payment decree, so then it can actually treat the insurance undertaking with a contractual supplement. So it is not so much an extreme burden that they would have to deal with all the contractual relationships of all practitioners and all outpatient specialists. It's definitely not like that. So from that perspective, I don't think it's a disaster. It may be administratively difficult, but not as my colleague Heger said. And also to Mr Stanjur, through Madam President. The amount we're talking about in compensation is 4.2 billion in summary. And that actually comes from the approved press that we approved at the beginning of the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u61	Thank you, honourable Member. I do not see any further application or factual comment in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and then the rapporteur whether they are interested in the final word. The plaintiff? [[No.]] So, Mr. Rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u62	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank all those present for the debate that took place in the general debate. It was a very correct, serious, problem-solving, except for one small extempore discussion. And she even opened the door for someone to say something, even though it's not an opinion that his club would agree to. I feel it very strongly, because she medicine, healing people just sometimes makes you not fall under the general opinion, because you have to solve a specific case on your own responsibility, on your own conscience. The discussion in the House was now what I would have imagined it to be. To make things clear, understandable, seriously, ethically correct, and I like that very much. On the other hand, a number of things have fallen, including Mr Hovorka's proposal, which shows that the problem is still alive and that it is not possible to sweep it under the carpet and say "we have many hours and it has taken a long time" and therefore I join Mrs Černochová's proposal for this material to be returned for further discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u63	Yes, thank you. Therefore, we will now consider Mrs Černochová's proposal and Mr Svoboda to return the draft law to the committee for renegotiation. Before we vote, I will sign you all out and ask you to re-registered with your cards. I see the number of entries has stabilized. Initiating vote on the proposal tabled. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 49, to which 122 are registered, for 21, against 94. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. Therefore, we will discuss the detailed debate which I am initiating. Mrs Marková and Mr Hovorka are enrolled in a detailed debate. Madame to the microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would merely apply to my amendment, which you will find in the House system under number 1346. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u65	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u66	Thank you for the floor. I also apply to my amendment, which I have read into the system under number 1355. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u67	Thank you. As I do not register any applications for a detailed debate, I conclude a detailed debate and ask whether there is an interest in the final words. The plaintiff is interested, so please. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank you for a very sophisticated debate. I will no longer return to the point, because I believe that all those who have spoken here are clearly presenting their political views on their fees. I think that this topic has simply been decided by the parliamentary elections. I would like, through Madam President, to answer two questions from President Stanjura now. The first was full of LDNs, which was also commented by Mr Nykl. I have to say, I don't have any convincing information that we have a full LDN. I have to say, not everything our totally independent media writes, I consider it true. However, I consider this to be important. We'll communicate with care providers. The moment we encounter this problem, we will try to solve it in some way. As regards the compensation for the cancellation of recipe fees, I said so in the introductory words - I must admit here that there is no miraculously fair way to distinguish pharmacies that have been selected and which have not been selected. We simply cannot do this from the point of view of applicable legislation and law. Finally, even after the debate in the Health Committee, after the debate with the representatives of the pharmacy public, we voted for a compromise with regard to the small pharmacies, when we decided on the estimate of about 800 million. And so, as was said, for about one recipe at 60 million, it's going to be about 12 crowns, and we're going to do that. I would also like to comment here on the amendments that have been made. As far as Mrs Marková's proposal is concerned, I respect that she and her political party have a different view of the emergency charge, and I must insist for the plaintiff that the fee makes sense. As far as Mr Hovorka's proposal is concerned, I would like to appeal very much here to all Members present and to warn of this. I very much warn the petitioner that this is a major intervention in a system that threatens to cause the collapse of health care. When I quickly read the proposal, I must say that the Member said that it does not concern the practice of up to 2 million. From the way I read it, and maybe I read it wrong, it's not just about publishing until $2 million. [[20.50 hours]] But even if that were the case, according to the data we have, if it were all additions, it's only 120 grand behind the RZP. Appendices. If it were up to 2 million, and I do not know if the Member has estimates about how outpatient practices are moving, perhaps I do not know the gynecological practice, which would be up to 2 million a year, so it is only for VZP 10,000 additions over the 2 million crowns, if we add other insurance companies, so we are somewhere at 15 to 20,000. According to the proposal, the administrative rules are to apply to this, so the Ministry of Health, after consulting the Ministry of Finance, is to give consent to 10 - 15 - 20 thousand amendments within 30 days. We really can't do that, and I'm here to confirm what was said. This threatens to completely paralyze the health system. Besides, there's no way we're gonna judge if Frant does, not Pep. I think this proposal is really threatening not only by crippling the operation of the Ministry of Health, but also by thousands of health facilities. Except that there's retroactivity, etc. I want to say here that I understand that the idea of giving some limits to the ability of insurance companies to negotiate with providers is good, but what is presented here threatens to collapse health care. I think that such a material cannot simply be dealt with by a parliamentary proposal that this needs to be dealt with by a government proposal with a very detailed and responsible reminder procedure and with some boundaries, but not to paralyze the health sector. I want to announce to this House that The Ministry of Health has a amendment to Act No. 48, so-called transparent, which introduces, inter alia, compulsory publication of contracts and such additions. I think that's the first very consistent control. And we are ready, as I said, in cooperation with the Members to prepare a government proposal. But I would like to warn you very much about going this way, and as the petitioner here, I give a very fundamental disapproval, and I appeal to this House not to experiment with Czech health care in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u69	Thank you, Minister. I end with this second reading of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-011-010.u70	Good evening, honourable Members. We will continue with another firmly placed point for tonight's meeting, and that is
