ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 83 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Tuesday, December 9th. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards. Before we go any further, I'm saying that the apology from today's meeting of the 24th meeting is as it was read in the morning at the 23rd meeting. I'm still extending a few more apologies that have arrived. Today, from two o'clock to the end of the day, Minister Helena Válková apologizes. Today, from 14.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes. Today, as of 14 October, Mrs Tomášová apologises for reasons of work. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr František Laudát. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal against the way I made it. It's not like that. In that case, I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the proposal, as it was put forward, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 1, Members of Parliament and Members 115, in favour of proposal 106, against 1. I note that we have designated Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr František Laudát as verifiers of the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 24th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme, but it is also not possible to extend the approved programme. I'm filing a first priority application, which is Vice-President Gazdík. I'm asking him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-000-000.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. I have one procedural proposal before we discuss the agenda for this meeting. I would like to ask you politely if Mr. Mayor Vlachovice-Vrbětice and also Deputy Governor of Zlínský kraj Jaroslav Drozd could be present at our meeting here in the hall. I ask for a vote on this proposal of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-000-000.u3	We will vote on this proposal immediately. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. I wonder if I can put a vote on the presence of both guests at the same time, or whether you want to put a vote on an individual basis. There is no objection, in which case I will vote on both present at once. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it was put forward, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 2, the Members present and the Members present are 133, 121 for the proposal, against none. I'll ask the Deputy Governor of the Zlín Region, Mr. . Jaroslav Drozd and Mayor Vlachovic-Vrbětic Mr. Zdeněk Hověžák, to come to the hall and sit here among us. So welcome. I'm sure the second guest will be here soon. We'll continue the negotiations. So I'm asking if anyone has a change or addition to the agenda for today's meeting. I'm gonna read the draft for the clarification program. It is the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation regarding the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice. If no one has a proposal or comment on the proposed program... [[Voice: No comments on the programme can be made.]] In that case, I am opening the vote on the agenda for today's meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the draft programme, as presented. I'm asking who's against the proposal. I shall end the vote with order number 3, the Members present shall be 140, in favour of proposal 116, against 2. I am of the opinion that the draft programme has been approved. So we're going to approach the only item on the show that's
