ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u1	11. Government bill on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws /house print 82/ - first reading I ask, under the authority of the Government, for this press to be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to present here the Government's bill on child care in the children's group and on the amendment of related laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u3	I'm sorry. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u4	Thank you. In fact, this proposed law introduces a new type of service, which consists in babysitting and caring for the child in so-called. a children's group. The aim is to extend the existing spectrum of childcare services to other options. It's no competition for kindergartens, it's kind of an alternative, some kind of supplement in the current situation where every year...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u5	I am really sorry, and please all those who do not want to follow this point in order to bring their debate into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u6	... here we have among fifty, sixty thousand rejected applications for admission to kindergarten. This regulation is intended to enable employers, municipalities, regions and non-state non-profit organisations to be involved in child care and to define in some way the legal framework for these activities. Since such a form of childcare is already in place in many places, one of these places is even the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself, the other is, for example, this place. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we're still missing some kind of administrative framework. The child care service in the children's group consists of a kind of care outside the child's household in the group of children, from one year to the start of compulsory schooling. [[9.30 hours]] Here I would remind you that not only is there no place in kindergarten, but long-term - for which we are also criticized by international organisations - there are almost absolutely no places in the nursery, i.e. care of children under three years of age. So this proposal somehow defines the specific conditions. As regards the amount of remuneration for this care, for this service, the amount will be determined by the provider, but the maximum amount can be up to the amount of setting-up and operating costs. This means that this service must be operated non-commercially, which is also very important. And she's expected to be paid for by her parents. Furthermore, this law is accompanied by tax measures, where, first, the Income Tax Act introduces a tax deduction on the income of individuals for a taxpayer who uses pre-school care services, whether it is a kindergarten or a child group. The second tax measure concerns who sets up this establishment, i.e. that it will be able to recognise the costs of operating this facility. Otherwise, the history of this bill has been quite long. After a few years, it was finally submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a year ago in May 2013, but since the Chamber of Deputies was then dissolved, the legislative process was not completed. Compared to last year's press, various legislative technical modifications were added. The proposed legislation is to take effect on 1 September 2014. I would also like to point out that an integral part of this is the decree of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs concerning sanitary requirements for the premises and operation of the children's group up to 12 children. Thank you for your attention, albeit limited, and I hope that you will put this proposal into second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u7	Madam Secretary, I tried, but I couldn't have done better. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, as the Minister has already said in his explanatory report, the draft law on the provision of child care services in the children's group, House press 82, has been prepared on the basis of resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic No. 607 of 22 August 2012. The draft law is based on the government's programming declaration, in which the government has committed itself to creating conditions for further development of family policy and childcare in order to increase the social prestige of the family, strengthen the involvement of both parents in the care and support the development of childcare services, create conditions for the faster return of caring parents to earning activity, and, inter alia, support the development of family care alternatives in the pre-primary education phase. The bill introduces a child care service in a children's group. According to the proposed proposal, the aim of this adjustment is to extend the range of pre-school childcare services and other options and to increase local and price availability of childcare services. Another objective is to facilitate the parent's contact with child care and gradual return to the labour market, taking into account their strategy for aligning professional and family life without the need to resign from the parent's role. The age category, as the Minister has already said, is from one year to the start of compulsory schooling. Caregivers must meet the professional qualifications and education in the field of general nurse, medical assistant, nurse, midwife or medical paramedic, social worker, social services worker, kindergarten teacher, nanny professional for children until the start of compulsory schooling, doctor, health psychologist, clinical psychologist and tutor. The child group may be operated by an employer, both natural and legal person, municipalities, regions, non-state non-profit organisations. As a related tax measure, the amendment to the Income Tax Act provides for the possibility of tax recognition of the costs of providing these services by employers and the income tax relief for earning parents in the provision of childcare services. I thank you for hearing my news report and allow myself to join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u9	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I have three apologies. Mr Urban apologizes for the rest of the days of this meeting for health reasons. Mr Koskuba apologises within 10 o'clock for personal reasons and Mr Vyzula apologises from 10 to 11.30 o'clock. So many apologies. I'm opening the debate. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I have here a factual remark from Mr Chalupa. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u10	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I beg you, I have a subject here for the law. I propose that we consider a certain circumstance that I have encountered in practice. This republic has built x preschools and these preschool facilities. When I dealt with the mayor at the place of residence using these objects after 5:00 p.m., the mayor told me that legislation does not allow the use of these objects after this time. I would like to discuss it here afterwards, in order for someone to explain it in some way, and if no one is dealing with it, so that these objects can still be used after this time, because mothers in the housing estates need to go to the theatre, sometimes some culture, shopping, and they have no place to put and these objects remain unused, and there is just a lot of economic resources in it. Seems like an inefficient use to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u11	Yes. Thank you for your point of view. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, the Children's Group Act introduces a completely new child care service in the children's group. The aim of this law, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is not to educate children, as is the case in kindergarten schools, but to focus on babysitting and regular care outside the child's household in the group of children with a focus on ensuring the needs of the child, education, the development of abilities, cultural and hygienic habits. It also determines operational requirements based on the size chosen by the founder, determines the founder, the possibility of obtaining funding and the possibility of deduction from taxes. But nowhere in this bill is solved the view of the child and his rights. The starting point for setting the objectives of pre-school education has become a personality-oriented model that respects the natural needs of children and creates optimal conditions for their development. As a basic conceptual material, the framework education programme for pre-school education was successfully implemented. The Czech Republic has a high-level education system in contrast to the surrounding, as well as highly advanced, countries. Why, then, are we considering taking a big step backwards? Children's education is a matter of course included in child care in the children's group, which is not the case. Child care in a children's group does not ensure the right of a child to education. The European Union stressed the need for alternatives to child care at pre-school age towards the Czech Republic. But he certainly doesn't urge to run away from education. Providing parents' needs should communicate with children's needs. The European Union calls for a solution on the basis of the exercise of the rights of all stakeholders - parents, employers and children. Suggests a choice of alternatives. It does not, however, urge to reduce the standards achieved in education and thus actually restrict the rights of the child. The law reduces the standard of child care, does not provide education, does not provide a level of diet, releases the expertise of teaching activities on the child and the control system is based on non-educational institutions. Where's the child's rights gone? We shouldn't let a child become a hostage of the present time. Why does a lack of finance have an impact on the education of our children? Unfortunately, the economic and organizational problems of our society are attacking the needs, interests of advanced pedagogy and the natural needs of children. [[9.40 hours]] The solution should be to expand the capacity of public pre-school childcare facilities and follow up on the long tradition and high level of this care from previous years. If the Act on Children's Groups were adopted in this text, we are going to meet the gradual liquidation of the network of kindergartens and the whole high level of preschool education in the Czech Republic. Therefore, in accordance with the Act on Rules of Procedure No 90/1995 Coll., as amended by § 90 para. 7, I propose to return the bill to the plaintiff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u13	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mrs Maxová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Children's Group Act could be subtitled: Children grow up, there's nothing to wait for. For the following reason: What troubles 50,000 parents? Maybe 100,000, because 50,000 children were rejected for admission to kindergarten. This issue bothers not only parents, but also municipalities that suffer from insufficient capacity and have spent significant funds in recent years to build and expand their capacities. However, they must think of sustainable capacity, not population wave, and it is the Children's Group Act that could solve this problem, because a number of municipalities are facing another problem, and that is the construction of primary schools. Also for municipalities up to 500 inhabitants, this law could help. In addition to the municipalities, this issue has already proved successful in companies that make contact with mothers with the working environment and at the same time try to maintain a good and experienced employee. They also combine it with a short-time job or work from home. We mustn't forget college either. Children's groups already work at universities, where they have the opportunity of studying mothers to complete their studies, and of course there is room for teachers. The second point, which is very important, is that there will be a choice for parents and their children who have specific needs and the environment of kindergarten schools is not entirely appropriate. A third point that is very important and would help with equal opportunities for women with young children. The career of men and women develops the same way until the mother leaves for parental leave. We must also not forget the positive effects on the Czech economy, namely increasing the number of insurance and tax payers. I heard here in the rapporteur's speech that these are the interests of the child. Yes. In fact, there is often a great deal of quarreling in the family when the family does not have sufficient funds. If Mommy can get into work, she could solve the problem. Because we know if Mommy is happy, the baby will be happy and, of course, Daddy and the whole family will be happy. For the reasons set out above, TOP 09 and the starosta will support this proposal at first reading, but we will propose amendments resulting from the discussion at the seminar, which we organised together with Mrs Putnová, with the participation of some Members and under the auspices of the Minister. We will propose that the providers also be associations, because a number of parent centres, which, in quotation marks, have pulled thorns out of their heels and bailed out care and insufficient capacity in kindergartens. Furthermore, we will propose to remove the tax deductions of parents and to remove the forest kindergartens from the group that would fall under this law, on the grounds that forest kindergartens operate under the kindergarten regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you too will support this law at first reading, because family is the foundation of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u15	Thank you. Now there are two factual points. The first is Mrs Putnová and then Mr Opálka. Please, Madame, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u16	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to the rapporteur's remark, which said that children's groups are a substitute for kindergarten schools. No, it's not like that. It is an additional device and we are not talking about a virtual solution, because, as Mrs Kovářová has already said, we have experience and good practice. Let me give you an example of Brno's Edison. It is a children's group that works at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Communication Technology in Brno. Maybe it's a coincidence that the dean of this faculty is a woman. Anyway, I want to share some basic statistics that will help you make decisions. It is a children's group that has 8 places that share 67 children. There is an electronic registration that allows parents to order a babysitter in advance at a time when they need to. It's being used by both students, so it's being used by our university teachers, and I have to say, they're just the best experience with it. Let us take a look at what has worked, and let us allow new, modern, progressive forms to be created as part of the preschool education offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u17	Another factual point is for Mr Opálka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I just want us not to live in some idealistic notion that it will address the employment of mothers. You know, there's 3/4 million people looking for a job or less, and I'm sure every mom doesn't have an employer waiting for her. Rather, they deal with their situation by being on parental leave. The problem I understand is that it is advantageous for those employers who need qualified labour, and this is a very narrow sector. Let us not think that we will address the economic situation of families across borders. It is indeed a narrower group of qualified or inadequate workers, and this certainly does not solve everyone's problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u19	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Maxová, who has been duly applied for, has the floor. Mrs Hnyková will speak after her. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u20	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President. I must first respond to Mr Opálka, because I think that even if it addresses only a small number of jobs, every idea should be accepted positively. Today, the government is proposing to provide child care services in a children's group. The law aims to extend the existing range of pre-school childcare services, while creating conditions for the possible early return of parents of young children to the labour process and the labour market. In my opinion, this is a positive step, which was also necessary and inevitable in view of the current situation. I see the necessity and inevitability especially in insufficient capacities in childcare facilities, especially in nursery and nursery schools, as already mentioned. This is confirmed by the 2012/2013 data, when kindergarten schools rejected less than 59,000 requests from parents to place their child in kindergarten. [[9.50 hours]] The Government's proposal to provide child care services in a children's group in its explanatory report represents a number of reasons to support children's groups. Therefore, my ambition is not to repeat these reasons here, but I would like to highlight and further analyse in more detail the most compelling arguments that have led me to express my support for this law. One. The bill can react flexibly and quickly to the current situation where children's parents throughout the country are facing a shortage of places in kindergartens, possibly. The nursery. In the opinion of some colleagues, support for the construction of kindergarten schools could be a starting point, but I do not see this as an appropriate solution for the future, especially in view of the variable state of birth. Kindergartens would also not solve a problem with children under three years of age whose parents would like to rejoin the work process. The school law talks about pre-school education in children usually from the age of three. I personally support these children's groups as an alternative and relatively quickly feasible way of dealing with an adverse situation. In particular, lower costs will contribute to the establishment of children's groups. Another positive can be seen in the possibility of placing children in children's groups from one year of age. In particular, opponents of children's groups argue that the aim of children's groups is merely babysitting and caring against the aim of kindergartens, which is to provide preschool education, which means the creation of basic prerequisites for continuing education, especially the development of the child's personality, healthy emotional, intellectual and physical development, the adoption of basic rules on behavior, fundamental values of life and interpersonal relations. They believe that children's groups will be resigned to the education of our children, who may then have significant problems with entering the first years of primary schools. However, these ideas are odd, in my opinion, because children's groups are also required to develop and comply with a training and care plan that regulates the basic content of activities in the children's group. The above plan of education and care is intended to focus on the development of the capacity of the child's cultural and hygienic habits and on shaping his personality, on his physical and psychological development. Following the repeated complaints of some colleagues on the topic of the missing children's training plan, I visited the children's group at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and asked for the submission of two plans of children's groups involved in the work and family reconciliation project, inspired by examples of good practice in Europe, which takes place in cooperation with the Ministry. As part of the project, there is currently cooperation with the primary school Prague 3, Havlíčkovo náměstí, and the Ombudsman's Office, which conducts pilot checks on childcare facilities by a children's group. The planned cooperation is for example with ČSOB, the Ministry of Health, the towns of Dobříš, Svitavy, the network of parent centres, Gender Studies, the National Institute for Children and Family, the Room for Family and others. One of them is Žižkovská školička in Prague 3. Its plan is entitled School Education Programme for pre-school education. This plan is based on the framework education programme for pre-school education, taking into account also the specifics of children who usually attend this school and, last but not least, several years of experience in pre-school work. The group has a maximum of 12 children aged three to five years, because only in this way, according to experience, it is possible to develop and subsequently strengthen knowledge, connect individual skills and abilities in the context of real situations. The plan is divided into five thematic blocks: me and my surroundings, the world around us, I care about my health, what we celebrate and sing, dance, practice. Each thematic block has its objective, thematic units. Me and my neighborhood have units: me and my family, my body, getting to know the school and the people in it that surrounds me, my relationship with others, myself. Educational offer, activities focused on communication rules, games, activities focused on healthy social climate classes and last but not least expected outputs. This means that a child should cope with basic social habits, greet, thank, whether a child knows his classmates, can address them by name, is considerate, creates friendly relationships. During the school year - at the beginning, in the semester and at the end - pupils are evaluated. The second children's group, which works at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, also has a care and education plan divided into thematic units for January to December. For example, I will mention the names of some units: winter, color and transport, film, theatre, books, occupation. And here is also a description of the activities that the child should know after the end of the whole. This means, if I have a whole winter, a child should know the types of winter sports I wear in winter for clothes like winter weather, etc. Thus, it is clear to me that parents will know before placing the child in the group, how the child will at least spend time in the group, and it will depend only on them whether they consider such a program appropriate and place the child in the group or not and look for a group that is better suited to their ideas. I consider this very important - freedom of choice. Children in children's groups will be taken care of so-called. professionally qualified carers, coupon. a kindergarten teacher or social worker who will deal with children in a variety of movement or e.g. artistic activities. It will also benefit the child to be in constant contact with his peers from an early age, thus being more quickly integrated into the collective and socializing. It is possible that, exceptionally, a child group may not provide child training in a particular direction for further education. In this case, however, the important role of the family in pre-school education cannot be ignored, as the family should also have a positive effect on the child and not rely solely on pre-school facilities. Last year, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports published a manual entitled "Desatero for Parents," which summarizes the basic skills that a child should master before entering primary school. Thus, parents can check whether their children's skills correspond to the prerequisites for entry into the first classes and, where appropriate, to eliminate their shortcomings. In connection with this problem, it is also necessary to mention that the Czech Republic does not introduce compulsory school attendance into kindergarten schools, even for the last year before entering primary schools. Thus, there are many parents who do not place their children in kindergartens for even one year, and yet such children do not have more significant problems with elementary school entries. I see no reason why children visiting children's groups should then have difficulty entering school. They are used to contacting other children, handling separation from parents, being separate in basic actions, etc., as it results from the statements of opponents of this law. The fact that pre-school education is primarily accepted by children in the last year before compulsory schooling begins cannot be forgotten either. The second reason I want to support is the possibility, not the obligation, of placing a child in a children's group. It will make it easier for parents to return to the labour market and make a significant contribution to the reconciliation of family and working life. According to the bill, children's groups are not in any way trying to compete with kindergarten schools. Rather, their purpose is to oblige parents to get back to work even if their child is not accepted for capacitive reasons or if they have a child under three years of age. Some parents have not yet been able to choose whether to take full parental leave with the child, i.e. up to three years of age, or to place him in a pre-school child care facility and return to work early. This impossibility of choice was due to the already mentioned lack of vacancies for children in nursery and nursery schools, when parents did not have the funds to pay for private kindergartens or nanny schools. Children's groups thus allow parents to return to work early, if they are interested, of course. A more frequent return to the labour market will then bring parents, respectively. the whole family, not only a better financial situation, but also eliminates obstacles that occur after a long absence in the work process. For example, loss of qualifications, skills of work or contact with collaborators may be indicated. I believe that the legalisation of children's groups will make a significant contribution to the harmonisation of the family and professional life of parents of young children. This will eliminate the need to choose between career or parenthood and parents in caring for their children and help them to stay in touch with their jobs. Last but not least, the fact that the law itself supports a number of non-state non-profit organizations cannot be forgotten. I can mention for example. The Union of Employment Unions, the Women's Forum or the Moravian Union of Women and the Network of Kindergarten Centres. [[10.00 hours]] Other arguments for supporting the law are: The purpose of setting up children's groups is not to achieve profit. The establishment of child groups will create new jobs for carers. Children's groups will provide meals only if they agree with their parents. In other cases, parents will provide food for their children. Therefore, the possible and currently quite common problem with the impossibility of preparing meals for allergies and otherwise handicapped children will disappear. Working parents whose children will visit children's groups will be able to apply tax relief in the form of income tax discounts. Employers will be able to have tax recognition of the costs of providing services for children. The State will also not lose a new adjustment because the return of employees to employment will also increase the revenue of the state budget, especially from income taxes. For a better combination of professional and family life, various institutions and benefits from employers, especially part-time work, flexible working hours, work from home or business facilities for young children could also serve. This, however, is another issue which concerns the reconciliation of professional and family life, not immediately children's groups. Finally, I would also like to mention the fact that at the turn of 2012 and 2013 and in the spring of last year there were 38 entities requesting support directly for the establishment of a children's group from the FKSP. Based on your own experience with the problem of finding equipment to place a child under the age of three, if you decide to go to work early, and it may not be the past time, but also the current, I want to support this proposal, I have asked my colleagues to do so too, and I will vote clearly in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u21	Thank you, Mrs Maxová. Before we proceed to another debate, ladies and gentlemen, from 10 to 11.30 today, Mr Rom Kostřica apologizes and from 12.30 to 14.30 Mr Jaroslav Lobkowicz. We will continue the debate. Now Mrs Jana Hnyková will take the floor, Mrs Zuzana Kailová will prepare herself. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u22	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on the Government's draft law on the provision of child care services in the children's group, House press number 82. In the introduction, I would like to say that Members of the Úsvit movement will release this proposal for second reading, but let me also give my opinion from another perspective on this bill and point out some things in it. The draft law states that the child care service in a child group is for the purposes of this Act, an activity consisting of babysitting and regular care of a child from one year of age to the start of compulsory schooling, which is provided outside the child's household in the group of children, which is aimed at ensuring the needs of the child and the education, the development of abilities, cultural and hygienic habits of the child. Paragraph 21 of this Law, on control, states that the State Labour Inspection Authority and the Regional Labour Inspectorates and the sanitary requirements for premises and operations are controlled by the sanitation station. But I'm asking, who's gonna control the education plan, developing the ability to shape the child's personality? After all, it is a highly professional activity and especially in children under six years of age. The draft law introduces a new type of childcare service, and the aim of the new legislation is to extend the range of pre-school childcare services to other options - to increase local and price availability of childcare services and to lay down conditions for the legal field of childcare services from one year of age to the start of compulsory schooling, not yet legally regulated. The specific conditions are designed to ensure the quality of care while being achievable for a wide range of providers. This will also enable employers, in particular as providers of child care services in the children's group, to provide care for the children of employees, municipalities, regions and family, non-state, non-profit organisations. Everything would be okay if these alternatives arose especially where there is a shortage of places in kindergartens, but this does not restrict the law. And here I am expressing my concern - stressing concern - with the introduction of alternative childcare, which the petitioners want to address the lack of capacity of current childcare services, that is the lack of places in kindergarten. We all know how strict criteria must meet kindergarten. Clearly, meeting all conditions is difficult not only financially but also professionally. But it's the right thing to do. Teachers have personalities in their hands that shape and raise. And once again I express my concern that alternative care for children should not become a constant and prevailing care in the Czech Republic and in places where there are plenty of places in kindergarten. I have nothing against parents returning to the work process earlier and thus reducing the risk of risk of poverty for lack of income in order to take care of children. And I believe that the petitioners really mean it, that this is just a transitional alternative to caring for the child, because we know for ourselves how demography will develop in our country. We should all work hard to get enough places in kindergarten and devote enough money to our children's education. I would even like to propose that the last year before entering primary school, attendance at kindergarten is compulsory and within the primary school. Why am I expressing my concern here? After experience in work in social services and some aspects of solutions, I am really concerned that alternative care should not be replaced by what has been being built here for years, and I am thinking of kindergartens that prepare children to enter school and teach them much important things. I will not be here to remind you how important the development of a child under six years of age is and how consistent pedagogical guidance of these children is needed. Many of them are given quality basics in kindergartens. It is no secret how many children have different developmental disorders, speech disorders that occur in children more and more frequently in recent years. And here, parents and teachers in kindergartens, who help the child to demolish these disorders, play an irreplaceable role. The Dawn Movement of Direct Democracy promotes and promotes a traditional family. We have to say that the last articles in the press about women staying on maternity leave for just one year and then raising and caring for the child into someone else's hands seem completely misguided in our circumstances. In conclusion, I would like to say that I would hate for us to be reminded, after a while, of one famous replica of Mrs. Stela Zázvorková from the film Pelišky about the fact that glassmakers will have nothing to eat. In our case, the glassmakers would be teaching workers in kindergarten. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to respond from this point of view to Mr Kalousek's complaint last week and, through Mr President, I would like to tell Mr Kalousek that I prepared this contribution myself. Furthermore, I would like to tell him that I will probably never achieve his rhetorical qualities, but I will work hard on it. And as a person, I admit that sometimes I get the stage fright that I represent here. And in full conclusion, through Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Kalousek that I am very pleased that he is here. All the more I appreciate the kind, pleasant and respectable people I meet here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u23	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Before we go any further, Mrs Radka Maxová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I have three factual points. Education control. I am quite interested in who currently controls mothers who do not send children to school at all, preschool education, and these are not just families of socially weak people. Second point. Why should we apply this proposal only to areas, cities, municipalities or regions that have a problem with lack of space? On the contrary, we will open it to the general public, the whole Republic, it is an alternative and freedom of choice. And three. The obligation to introduce the last year in kindergarten as compulsory does not support any study that would clearly show that the visit to the last year of kindergarten has a favourable development for further education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Let's keep going. Now, Mrs Zuzana Kailová. Mr. František Vácha will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u26	Dear colleagues, the Government's proposal for a child group law responds to the difficulties encountered in practical implementation of the pro-family policy in practice. First of all, allow me to respond briefly to some arguments put forward by the opponents of this proposal, or, in short, those who merely doubt the need to put this proposal into practice. I find it very unfortunate not to make responsible decisions with an excuse for the argument arising from long-term statistical projections. First, because long-term forecasts, for example, do not logically incorporate the effects of effective pro-family policy measures in terms of demographic fertility development. Therefore, we cannot consider these forecasts relevant to the argument in the search for an answer why not do something. Rather, let us find reasons for the solutions we are facing now. We can date limited availability of pre-school facilities since 2005. If, at the birth rate of over 100,000 children per year, the lack of pre-school facilities is evident, then it is even more trivial in the area of child care under the age of three. In the context of care for children under the age of three, opponents may be based on the knowledge of some child psychologists who do not consider child care services to be the most appropriate within three years of age. However, this inappropriateness must be measured with other, at least as serious conditions as, for example, the deepening absence of women with children on the labour market, in which we are deeply below the European Union average. Further with the use of pro-growth economic resources that we would achieve in case of active involvement of parents in the working environment. Further, with substantial changes in the natural education of children in families, where it is no longer possible to talk about the education that was different in our time. Last but not least, the increasing inability of children's social competences. As can be seen from the content of professional publications issued by, for example, the Ministry of Education or the National Economic Council of the Government or the non-profit sector or the OECD, the effectiveness of pre-school care is proportional to its quality, time and intensity. It is proportional to the ability to cope with inequalities in education, but also with success in the labour market. We are now dealing with situations where children who have the full right to pre-school education and the group of children to develop their social skills and communication are deprived of this pre-school education. We're talking about three to three-and-a-half-year-olds not getting into kindergartens right now. In addition, families with young children who are raising and caring for the next generation are exposed to economic uncertainties, which only amplify the fact that one parent does not have a real chance to return to the labour market. Social democracy sees children's groups as a necessary response to the long-term inaction of previous right-wing governments, cynically following the problems of young families, hoping that their children will grow old. In no way does the support of children's groups at the moment mean that social democracy will resign from the basic solution to support and funding kindergarten schools. If we do not do so, we are exposed to a risk that can be likened to not providing assistance to, for example, a pensioner for the assumption that he will die anyway according to statistical forecasts. Dear colleagues, on the basis of these facts, I ask for your support in discussing the bill on the provision of childcare services in the children's group at first reading, as I believe that it will contribute not only to the culture of the current stress of pre-school education, but also to the benefit of the children themselves, namely our future generation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u27	Thank you, Mrs Zuzana Kailová. I will ask my colleague Vácha to wait a little longer because his party colleague Věra Kovářová beat him to it with a factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u28	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Mrs Kailová, for her speech and speech. I agree with what she said, except for one thing, and that is the inaction of right-wing governments in the field of children's groups. Just a reminder that this law has already been prepared by the government of Petr Nečas. It took quite a while. It is clear from the number of speakers who have applied here, from how many people have applied for the seminar and what were the discussions there, that this is a really hot topic. Right-wing governments have acted and I hope that the Chamber of Deputies will also act in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u29	Thank you, Mrs Věra Kovářová, for the point of fact and for keeping time. Mr. František Vácha, who is now duly applied for. Mr Zdeněk Soukup will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u30	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to support from this point the proposed law on the provision of childcare services in children's groups, especially as an employer who has practical experience with the organisation and use of the Institute for Children's Group, the employer of men. I can assure you that most of the negative attitudes we hear about these devices are given by the simple ignorance of the problem. Children's groups do not compete with nursery or nursery schools, they become an effective and flexible tool for employment in the employer's hands. All the more surprising is the attitude of the Communist Party. It is an instrument, especially in sectors where young mothers need employment as soon as possible for various reasons. Science and research are such sectors. In November 2013, the Biological Centre of the Academy of Sciences opened a children's group Butterfly in cooperation with the University of South Bohemia in České Budějovice. This is a facility intended for children of employees of both institutions, in which a total of 12 children can be placed between the ages of half a year and the beginning of schooling. For these purposes, we have reconstructed campus spaces, so the children's group is well accessible to all parents during working hours. Part of the children occur only a few days a week, part of the children only half a day, so in total our children group is able to accommodate up to 19 children. The main reasons that led us to the establishment of a children's group were keeping in touch with qualified employees with the development of the profession, faster return of female researchers to the work process after the birth of the child and, of course, the lack of nursery and kindergartens in České Budějovice. I don't know if you realize this, but the price of one month in a private kindergarten is at least in our city somewhere from six to seven thousand a month, a private babysitter about six months old costs mommy up to eighteen thousand crowns a month. That means mommy's gonna give the whole paycheck just for babysitting her six-month-old. And that's the real case that I, as dean of my institution, have encountered. This mom now has her baby in our children's group, she's happy, she can go see him whenever there's a problem. [[10.20 hours]] We have children in our group from seven months to three years. The most numerous group are children aged between one and two and a half years, the youngest was seven months at the time of the start - that was the case I was talking about. Of course, meals are owned by children within one year; children over one year of age can receive meals directly from the Menza of South Bohemia University. We have three children from our parents, where they're both strangers, three more children have one parent from a stranger. Our tutors have practice and education in the required field and we have a compulsory knowledge of the English language. We have already set the conditions and parameters in advance according to this law. This means, if you are interested and in doubt, you can come to us and see how it works just under this proposed law. Among our employees, the equipment of the children's group is perceived extremely positively and as a significant benefit. That is why there is a great deal of interest in services. The capacity of the facility is fully occupied. We even have waiting lists for pregnant moms to report to. Among moms are also a scientific community awarded by scientists, which thanks to our facilities can focus on both their family and children as well as their demanding work and development of Czech science. The greatest reward for us, for employers, but perhaps mainly the argument for you Members when voting should be those happy children and satisfied mothers who can work in literally close proximity to their children. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u31	I thank Mr František Vách. I have two more factual points to make, so I'm going to ask my colleague Soukup to be patient. First Mrs Zuzana Kailová, then Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, madam, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond to Mrs Kovářová, who spoke here about the fact that Minister Nečas has already prepared this proposal. Yes, I did, in a slightly different form. There was also incorporated so called. Neighborhood babysitter, with whom there was a big problem. Finally, he was dismissed from this law. But I would like to say to the TOP 09 that when Minister Müllerová got the courage to submit this bill to the government. Until then, right-wing governments have done absolutely nothing to develop pre-school education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Miroslav Opálka now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want Members behind the KSČM not to be put on a dog's head that is against the wrong proposal. You know, we weren't the ones who were jamming business crap and business kindergartens, and now who knows what they all are. This created a shortage of kindergarten schools and we barely have a nursery at all. I would even be willing to discuss these groups for a transitional period before we lose the baby boom, which, fortunately for a while, hit the Czech Republic, though it is gone again. The problem is what was here, and maybe it will be outlined by my colleagues, but above all, that in the future kindergarten schools should be replaced by these children's groups, that the school system will weaken. If there is a proposal for these children's groups to set up municipalities, tell me what reason they will have to hold kindergartens when this child's group is much cheaper for them and from the point of view of hygienic and qualification parameters significantly easier. So that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. One more point in fact, Mrs Věra Kovářová... I've already got two, Mrs. Putnová, too. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u36	Thank you. I would have responded to the previous speaker's statement in the sense that it would not be advantageous for municipalities to build kindergartens. The municipalities receive contributions from the budgetary determination of taxes on pupils in kindergartens. This does not concern children's groups. So the municipality has the opportunity to decide whether to build a kindergarten, have children there to receive a contribution, or set up a children's group for which it will not receive a contribution. It's the same choice that parents have in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u37	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mrs Anna Putnová, also with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u38	Good morning again. I would just like to remind you that this bill actually arose in the workshop of Members and, above all, the right-wing government and on 27 May last year we received it electronically for discussion. It was the press, I think, 1084. So it's just a remark on history. And then I would like to comment on the comments that are constantly repeated, that we want to replace the children's group with kindergarten schools. It's not like that. It's another alternative, the possibility of taking care of pre-school children. We shouldn't be closing our eyes to how society changes. With later retirement, grandmothers, seniors, who can take care of their children. All the forms that we as our generation have been used to are dwindling. The transformation of society is significant. We want women, especially women in creative roles, to be more involved in working life. We want more babies to be born. And what are we doing for these women? What do we do for families who would like to have more children and also need some tools to provide for pre-school care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u39	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Now two more factual points, Mr Soukup will wait. Now, Mrs Černochová, the colleague Kořenek will prepare for a factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u40	Good morning. You know, ladies and gentlemen, if I wasn't in 1973, I might have believed my colleagues on the left that they were serious about our education and our preschool education. But because I'm a vintage so-called. Husákův's children, so I know how much evil they've done to our education. The fact that there were 40 of us in the same class. There were 40 of us in one class! And that went from daycare to kindergarten to high school to college! In fact, as my previous speakers said, there was a proposal that came from Mr Nečas when he was Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The ODS is behind this proposal because this proposal also allows tax advantages for parents who decide to give their children to these alternative pre-school facilities. And as mayor in Prague 2 - and Michaela Marksová is my colleague from the council - I can really confirm to you that the right-wing town hall in Prague 2, which has 20 years of age, has established a nursery, several kindergartens, and even now we have the biggest demand for "mother's kindergartens" for pensioners. Because, please, let us not forget that generations of people who are getting into retirement age are actually getting older, and even for these elderly people, we need to find some facilities where they can spend their free time meaningfully. [[Noise in the hall.]] So please stop insulting the right-wing government that supported this bill. We're behind this proposal. The proposal is good and will solve a problem that unfortunately could not be solved by the left in past years and - Thank you. [[The President is speaking.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u41	Thank you for keeping time. I really ask my colleague Soukup to wait, because the factual remarks have multiplied. Now, Mr Kořenek, then Mrs Marta Semelová, then Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u42	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I've only had a short time. The children's group, as proposed, is a problem for me because I work in education or work, and I know the problem. And I worked at City Hall. The problem of child placement is the problem of satellites of large cities and large cities themselves. We do not have this problem because we were able to calculate the demographic curve. However, when you look at the conditions, it follows exactly the kindergarten or kindergarten class, but it softens the conditions for the educational programme and hygiene at the same time. We've had control at kindergarten now, and I can tell you that one administrative fine basically takes over for nonsense. This means that eliminating the shortcomings in us last year - the small ones when they touched the towel, when we didn't have the beds as we should have stored, so basically the removal of these shortcomings cost us two million last year. Now we're planning more budget measures in the community. Tell me why the mayors would risk these measures in the future, these fines, this confrontation with the state and with the supervisory authorities, if they have a different, much cheaper way. On the contrary. Feel free to have children's groups, but let's talk about restrictions up to four years of age. Feel free to free kindergarten, for example, by allowing the preparatory classes and moving in the system. But let's not take non-systemic measures. In this Republic, non-systemic measures or breaking into the existing system have always meant abuse in the future. If everything worked out the way it should, and we should be the guarantor, it would be fine. But as they say, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, especially for keeping time. Now another factual point by Mrs Marta Semelová, will be prepared by colleague Antonín Seďa. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u44	Yes, thank you, I'll keep up the time. I just wanted to remind my colleagues on the right that before November 1989 there were over a thousand crèches, now there are only 40. You guys canceled kindergarten, so now there's nowhere to put the kids. The number of children in the class, if Mrs. Černochová mentioned here, yes, was over 30. Now there's over 30 of them, too, because the directors are forced to merge classes to feed the cantors and even run the school, so now there's up to 34 of them in the classroom. And behavior then and today can't be compared. When it comes to the population wave of Husákův's children, it was simply a pro-population policy at the time, so young families were interested in having enough children. Well, what the right-wing coalition did for the family, we've all been there for ourselves. Unemployment, reduction of birth, respectively. cancellation of births, reduction of allowances, reduction of benefits, privatisation of services. And as far as the quality of education is concerned, international surveys show this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u45	Thank you, Madame. So far, the final point of fact, Mr. colleague Seďa, and then perhaps a colleague of Soukup will get to the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would tell your colleague Černochová that they may have such experience in Prague. As a citizen and a longtime representative of the city of Uherské Hradiště, I must say that it was a right-wing coalition that abolished two nursery schools and one nursery between 1998 and 2000 without compensation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u47	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Now, Mr Zdeněk Soukup for a proper application. And then Mrs... [[Mrs Cernochová warns from the area near the rhetorical site that she is reporting.]] Okay, I missed you. So please, Madame, next time, the electronic application, because I was already pleased that the factual remarks had passed. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u48	I don't have to, Mr President. According to the Rules of Procedure, I can also report by raising my hand from the point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u49	Yes, I'm sorry I missed you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u50	I just wanted to respond to Mrs. Semelová and my colleague Seďa down. I really don't think it's about the numbers right now, but it's about buildings. For example, we solved the problem in Prague 2 by putting the last year of kindergartens in primary schools, because we had a shortage of children in primary schools, we had to combine some primary schools. And for our parents, we're also making a service in the fact that they're bringing their little boy to that school a year early, and the kid gets used to the environment. Even from the point of view of psychologists, this procedure is very positive. So I think where there's a will, there's a way. And this bill is exactly the way we can go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u51	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Soukup. And I'll give him my word. No one's gonna stop him. Mrs Marta Semelová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor for a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u52	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, I cannot condone the remark that I feel like the fire chief in the Fire, my doll. How he always went out for the medal and never got on it. [[Laughs in the hall.]] When I went through the draft custody law in children's groups as a guarantor of the club YES, I assumed a relatively smooth discussion and approval. I hope I wasn't wrong, but I guess I was. Madam rapporteur, through Mr President, you are of the opinion that the best education and education in the collective is for children already of a child's age. I, for one, am one of those who think that little children under at least four years of age are best off with Mom or Dad - to be gender-balanced. And if I've read well, children's groups better than kindergartens model the family environment, when time has forced both parents to rush to work. But to the arguments of the matter. The last two decades have been marked by a marked decline in birth rate. There was less interest in places in the old nursery and nursery schools. The town hall in the case of nursery completely and partially disposed of at kindergarten. Now the population curve has gone up. There's no daycare, there's 60 grand missing in kindergarten. places. This number may not be accurate, because there are more people applying to some kindergarten schools, but of course, there is a significant decline. Should we build new equipment? It seems to me that the investment would be quite uncertain. I really think that it is the children's education project that responds best to demographic developments and the fickle population curve. They understood it in Austria, Holland and Germany. The state doesn't have to build and subsidize new nursery and kindergarten. The equipment and operation of children's groups will enable the law to give tax advantages to founders, employers and parents. Now to the next objections against the children's groups. I wouldn't be for them if I didn't carefully study the conditions for setting them up. I think they're set up in a similar way to kindergarten. This concerns space requirements, hygiene and personnel. The draft law requires, for example, the education of primary or kindergarten teachers, the education of secondary or higher medical personnel, the education of a worker in social services. I think that's enough. The opponents of children's groups are attacking what the authors of the legal designs admit. I quote: The service does not provide child education, but the child is given educational care aimed at developing his abilities and cultural and hygienic habits of the child's adequate age. In this sense, the bill assumes that parents with the management of the children's group conclude specific arrangements on the care and education plan. I have no doubt that parents are looking after the quality of care. Children's groups are not to replace existing kindergartens. This has been highlighted several times. They're just supposed to supplement the pre-school child care offer. I suggest you run the draft for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u53	I thank Mr Zdeněk Soukupa. Now, with Mrs Marta Semelová's proper application, Mrs Alena Nohavová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Children's Group Act has several levels. One of them is the view of a parent who needs to get to work. Others can be seen in connection with the economic situation of the Czech Republic, in connection with support for families and employment. Of course, the level of education and socialism is important. Looking at the bill presented could certainly be more. However, in any case, the interest and rights of the child should be at the top of what we should be taking into account in the discussion. The right to healthy development, to the same starting line within the lifelong course of education, to compensate for possible sociocultural differences. A key role is played by the kindergarten, which not only performs the function of education and social, but above all provides pre-school education at a time when the basics of the child's personality and the prerequisites for his next educational career are being formed. [[10.40 hours]] It is a comprehensive pre-school education system based on the scientific knowledge, experience and needs of the child. It is based on educational programs that adequately develop the personality of each individual, his component intellectual and emotional, physical development, communication skills, basics of language and mathematical, graphomotors, knowledge of the surrounding environment, musical and visual skills. Through this preparation, children also adopt basic rules of conduct, values of life, and interpersonal relations. It creates the prerequisites for continuing education, helps, as I said, to balance the unevenness of children's development before entering primary school and provides special educational care to children with specific educational needs or health status. Kindergartens also give very much needed support to children who come from a socially disadvantaged environment. The irreplaceability and importance of pre-school education - and I underline education, not the babysitting that is presented by the bill - is confirmed not only by elementary school teachers but also by international research, which shows that pupils who attended kindergarten achieve better results, for example, in PISA tests and more often enter tertiary education. The creation of good foundations during pre-school education can thus significantly increase the individual's chances of success in life. The creation of such assumptions for all children should be a priority for each government. On the contrary, resignation to pre-school education by the state through the law of children's groups returns us to the Abbots or to the so-called 19th century. foster homes. Babysitting and storage services under the name of a children's group instead of kindergartens will lead to a deterioration of children's knowledge and social habits and a humiliation of the child's right to equal opportunities in access to education. However, in relation to the requirement of the Minister of Education to introduce a compulsory senior year for pre-schoolers before entering primary school, which I consider to be a fully justified proposal, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is contrary to the monitoring services. Nor can I agree to the degradation of the profession of kindergarten teacher in relation to children's groups that will occur. On the one hand, we want them to have the highest possible vocational education and psychological education, we force them to undergo various trainings and courses, we overwhelm them with paperwork, we entrust them with an extremely responsible task, such as the processing of school education programmes and all kinds of projects, which must take into account not only the development of all aspects of the child's personality, but also health, lifestyle, fixed time of stay outdoors, prevention, consolidation of hygiene habits and other conditions, and on the other hand, we tell them that a nanny or social worker is sufficient for preschool education. Shouldn't it be the other way around? Should we not strive for the highest possible increase in the prestige of educators and, of course, also in salaries? At the same time, the profession of educators at all levels of schools is becoming increasingly demanding. It is not just the way many parents treat them, or the behavior of children, which reflects the style of behavior and the life of adults, or the whole society. It is also about the fact that, in particular, kindergarten schools increasingly substitute families for basic habits, including the development of speech skills. It is the logopedic flaws of preschoolers that are among the main causes of delays in schooling. It is full of 33.6 percent of children out of the total number of deferrals. In the last ten years, the number of children with speech defects and impaired communication skills has increased by almost half. Each third to fourth child has a minor or larger communication capacity disorder, ranging from simple physiological tenderness to severe defects. Logopedic defects are, of course, not the only reason for postponed schooling. Others include insufficient adaptation and concentration difficulties - i.e. 31.1 %, difficulties in the graphomotor region - 15,7 % and frequent is accumulation of these difficulties. If we withdraw from the vocational management of pre-school education and move on to just babysitting pre-school children in children's groups, this situation will get even worse. I also see risk in the provision of babysitting. The law says that there must be no more than 24 children in one child group. When determining the number of carers in one child group, the provider is obliged to take into account the health status of children, the period of stay of children in the child group and the age, in particular the number of children under two years of age. The lowest number of carers that the provider is obliged to provide in one child group is one carer for a child group of up to six children. Formulation as such is too general, whether it is a medical condition, a period of residence or a specific specification, what it will mean to take account of the number up to the age of two years. I would remind you that children may be in the children's group from one year to the beginning of compulsory schooling, according to the proposed proposal. How will education and care be provided if there is a disabled child, a one-year-old toddler, a six-year-old preschooler, or another hyperactive child, or from a socially disadvantaged environment? With each having different needs, different demands and all with one lady to babysit. Next - eating problem. The law states that the provider is not obliged to provide food services to the child unless otherwise agreed. The provider and the parent agree on how to dine and cover the costs associated with it in the child care contract. So the parent will hand the child over to the children's group and along with him and home-cooked food. No one will control what food it is, what quality it is, if the child gets what it needs for its healthy development. The first salmonella will show what problems may arise. By the way, this approach of the petitioners is again contrary to the legitimate requirement of the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek to improve the quality of school meals, to return cooking to schools and to the abolition of automata in schools where children buy sweets, chips and coca-cola, simply with the requirement of healthy eating children. But that's not the only contradiction. If we return to the declaration of the current government coalition, we are told that - I quote: "Education is a fundamental pillar of government policy. All steps in this area will be accompanied by an emphasis on improving quality -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u55	Madam, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. The noise level has risen so much that it's useless for us to scream around here. If anyone wants to discuss something other than the bill, please transfer your discussions to the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u56	- All actions in this area will be accompanied by an emphasis on improving the quality of education at all levels. The Government shall ensure systemic support for pre-school education.'; And I ask: Do you really think that the law on the provision of child care services in a children's group is what will increase the quality of education and what will ensure systemic support for pre-school education? To be properly understood. I understand that many mothers with young children or fathers need to get to work. Someone for the sake of self-realization, others for the sake of not losing contact with people or with the profession, others for the necessity of income for the family to survive. I know that more than two thirds of people in our country can't reach the average wage, a million six hundred thousand is on the poverty line. Mothers or fathers of singles get into big trouble. By the way, 81 percent of all so-called solo parents make up women. [[10.50 hours]] I note that 22 percent of children grow up in families with only one parent. The alarming thing is that up to 50 percent of women find themselves at the poverty line after divorce, below 1.5 times the minimum of life. The unemployment of solo mothers is 13,6 %, mothers living with a partner of 7.7 %. 94 percent of mothers employed combine child care with full - time work, since a reduced income would not support them. With this statistics, I want to underline that I am often aware of the desperate need for my parents to get to work, that, given that in the 1990s, the nursery and kindergarten schools were massively disturbed, they were looking for salvation in patrol groups just to earn a few crowns. But in the future, it only brings problems. Instead of creating children's groups, the government should give greater support to municipalities to re-establish nursery facilities and expand the capacity of kindergartens. They must deal with systemic aid to families with children, the possibilities of reconciliation of family and working life. Families need to be financially supported at the birth of the child and in his upbringing. Motivate employers to offer alternative jobs, to flexible working hours, to work at home, to reduce jobs and to create new jobs, to active employment policies at all, and also to introduce replacement maintenance. In conclusion, let me remind you of one date. The day after tomorrow, March 28, we commemorate the 422nd anniversary of the birth of one of the most important educators of all time, Jan Amos Komenský. On this occasion I would like to wish all educators on the upcoming Teacher's Day, and I would like to remind them that it was Komenskýý who was the first to deal with the content of preschool education in his Kindergarten Informatorium, in which he gave a comprehensive system of knowledge, skills and habits to be instilled in children under six years of age. And all the way to the end. In the teaching paper of 28 May 2013, the shadow minister Marcel Chládek mentioned the OECD report, which clearly declared that the quality of pre-school education was important for the subsequent development of education. In this context, he stated that "social democracy will therefore not support the government's proposal on child care in the children's group in Parliament. Instead, we want to systematically promote greater support for kindergarten schools and the expansion of their capacities." I fully support this requirement, contrary to the proposal put forward for childcare in children's groups, and I agree with the rapporteur's proposal that this bill be returned to recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u57	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová, and I will ask my colleague Nohavová to wait, because I have at least two factual points. The first factual point is that of Mr Michal Kučera and another factual point by Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u58	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would like to respond to the words of my previous speaker, Mrs Semelová. You see, Mrs Semelová, through Mr President, I do not think that kindergarten plays a key role in raising a child. Family primarily plays a key role in raising a child. And I am a family with a small child, I have a small child at home and I would very much not want to stand through you or anyone else telling me how and how to raise my own child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u59	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that a colleague here before me, Mr Kučera, mentioned the irreplaceable role of parents, because I think that the freedom of choice of parents, when there is no other option, to place a child in a children's group that has an educational plan and a plan of action, is irreplaceable. At the same time, I wonder if my colleague knows, probably yes, what is the number of children per kindergarten teacher and what is the number of children per caregiver in this new regulation. And another thing is eating. I've taken a job and I've circled around a couple in quotes, children's groups, and I can say I don't find it a completely bad choice to equip a child with food that I want to eat, because I'm a parent and I just want what's best for the baby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u61	Thank you. One more point in fact by Mr Radim Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response to Mrs Semelová's speech. That's where she rubbed off on losing her teacher's prestige. I would also like to tell a story from my own family. We're two cantors, a gymnasium professor and a college teacher. When we go to West Germany in Baden-Württemberg, they always say to me, "You must be doing pretty well, huh? That's just prestigious - a high school teacher, a college teacher. You communists have done something about that prestige over the past 40 years, that's how it went down. That was an underpaid matter, and how we are perceived, and the fact that the wonder of not living two college students is actually the remnant of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u63	Thank you. Now two more factual points - Mrs Marta Semelová and then Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u64	With regard to the conditions of teaching work, in the last term, I have interrogated here x-times because of the fact that the trade unions have turned to me, the teachers have approached me, the non-teaching workers have turned to me, which have significantly deteriorated working conditions due to the previous government. Otherwise, what you were talking about here, through Mr President, was a pity that you didn't go to the demonstration teachers in the square that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u65	Thank you, Madame, for keeping the time. Another factual point, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond to my fellow speaker. You know, there's little time for a guy to have a sincere laugh in the House. But making excuses for something that was 25 years ago, and not having the ability to change it in 25 years, when it was so bad, it really just takes a smile. Yesterday I heard from the former mayor, I suspect, Olomouc something about internal debt and the unaccountable debt of the Republic. Yes, of course, but an internal debt far greater is being created today. At that time, the Republic dealt with internal debt after World War II, interfered with the third and fourth categories of housing, where people had a bathroom somewhere in the hallway, and built rabbits, etc. etc. Let's not keep making excuses for what was 25 years ago. Let us see how you have improved your activity over the past 25 years and what it has been like in the past after World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Nohavová will wait. Now, Mr Gabal, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sitting here trying to listen to this debate because it's important. I just wanted to point out that we do not place around 10,000 children in Prague every year, in Central Bohemia about 12,000 and in other regions with large cities it will be very similar. So I would recommend that we go back to this topic, we need to figure this out, and the other related things, such as demographic rhythm and long-term trends and impacts, etc., are left on a different subject. If we can move this situation, we'll do something to help. If we continue to cultivate this political debate, I don't think we're gonna solve much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u69	Thank you, honourable Member. And now, with the proper application by Mrs Alena Nohavová. A colleague from Beznoska will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a draft law on the provision of child care services in the children's group. This law is intended to address the lack of places in kindergartens, thereby enabling parents to participate in the work process. As a kindergarten teacher with 32 years of practice, I will allow myself to say to you why I cannot support this bill. I consider the creation of a children's group, as proposed, to be a poor solution. Although we allow parents to get into work, the smallest children suffer from imperfect bills. The ideal solution would be to expand the capacity of existing kindergartens. Preschool education in the Czech Republic has not only a long tradition but is mainly detailed and has no competition in the world. It provides not only education but also other services such as eating with very strict hygiene rules. Preschool education is of immense importance, the general development of children between the ages of three and six years and creates a prerequisite for the future success of the pupil. The mistakes that we make about children in this age period will be borne throughout their lives. Kindergarten schools are part of the education system of the Czech Republic with qualified teachers. A children's group of education is not to provide and is limited to babysitting. It therefore goes against the current trend where, on the one hand, we are promoting the need for the final year of kindergarten as a compulsory one, as the only way to improve preschool education, and especially for children from disadvantaged backgrounds, and on the other hand, we would not pursue this objective. According to Section 2 of the proposal, the target group is defined from one year to the beginning of schooling. Thus, it follows that the number of children in the children's group is increasing by two more years of age, which originally belonged to the nursery. On the one hand, the proposal acts as an emergency solution to the shortage of places in kindergarten schools, and immediately in the opening paragraphs, it extends the scope to 200,000 other places in kindergarten schools. Thus, it creates a predominance of supply over demand, which in times of decline in demand will lead to the elimination of the most sophisticated form of childcare, i.e. the abolition of kindergarten schools. The question is whether children's groups could only be limited to the age of children under the age of three years. Children are to be placed in the children's group according to the proposal in the final year before entering the school, which means they will not be prepared enough to enter the school. There will therefore be two laws against each other - the Children's Group Act and the School Act, which will lead to the creation of two castes, so that children who have graduated from a kindergarten will have an advantage on the starting line at school and children who will only go through the watch-keeping service will be disadvantaged. The proposal states that less than 60,000 requests are not satisfied. I would have stopped at this number. They're applications, please. It is not the real number of unplaced children, which is the difference. Most parents make more requests for their child to be admitted to kindergarten and there are no exceptions to eight applications. At the same time, this lack of space is not widespread, but concerns some localities, especially suburban satellites. I'm from South Bohemia, so I did some research. In České Budějovice, the situation is also unsatisfactory. 500 applications were not met, including applications for admission in May to June, i.e. actually another year, where the applications were also dubulated. And the real guess was, or is, about 200 children not stationed in České Budějovice. Other district towns and trio communities do not have a problem, except for some exceptions. In some district towns, children under three years of age have already been placed for this school year. And there are regions in the South Bohemia region that are so-called in decline, which means that they do not have full capacity. Children's groups exist in a certain way, as has already been said here. They are different kindergartens, kindergartens, Clubs etc. Why, then, if it works, why establish a new law? So, in my opinion, it's redundant. The main objective of caring for children is masked, namely the entry of business into another, until now exclusively non-profit area. Paragraph 6 provides for an absolute variation in remuneration from free to maximum full reimbursement of costs. It follows from this that this activity can also be operated for profit. So we're going to make raising children profitable, because what they can do will sooner or later become the norm. And if in the future the founders do not have enough funding to run the nursery school, they can transfer them to children's groups, especially when current kindergartens will be so-called on the edge with some applicable regulations, such as surviving school kitchens, lack of space or failure to qualify. The bill also does not address eating. Children of employed parents stay in kindergartens for eight or more hours. I suppose they'll be staying in a children's group for that long. The provider's lack of food guarantee is directly trivial. Not only are high hygiene requirements applied to food preparation in kindergartens, but the nutritional value of food is also monitored, the way food is adjusted is monitored to maintain the highest possible levels. How lawmakers imagine the way they eat, for children in the period of development and growth since one year when children need a varied and valuable diet, is not really clear to me. I can't imagine a year-old having a microwave to heat up lunch, and that's still cooked the day before, because I don't expect Mommy to cook in the morning. It's forbidden to heat food in kindergarten. It must not be cooked from semi-finished products and the food must always be fresh. Here we return at least 60 years ago, when the harvest shelters were founded and the children carried their lunch in castles. Yes, the time has progressed - we have boxes and microwaves. Children's groups are supposed to allow parents, mostly mothers, to participate in the work process. I wonder how many jobs the state will get and why the state should lower taxes on these parents. How, on the other hand, do those who put children in kindergarten come to this? They cannot deduct anything from taxes and certain tuition fees are also paid. The question is whether the inequality thus created by competing entities is also a violation of legal standards. What can I say in conclusion? I am aware of the social situation of young families who fail to place their children in kindergartens and need or want to work on their own. I consider the situation to be solved by children's groups only as a substitute and the least appropriate solution for a period of two or three years at most. The real solution is to expand the capacity of nursery schools to provide education and to re-establish the learning classes. And all we need is a decree to regulate the number of these children in the classrooms. So there's no need for a new law. [[11.10 hours]] It would cost a lot of money to set up children's groups, so they could be used to set up sage classes. The expansion of the nursery school network is also in the government program. I didn't know anything about the children's group. Of all the things I have said here, I believe that this proposal, as proposed, cannot be accepted. I suggest we redo it. In the proposal are forgotten by the smallest and defenseless, our children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u71	Thank you, Mrs Alena Nohavová. Before my colleague, Mr Beznoska, with a factual remark from Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u72	Hello. I must respond again, for I am a fighter for the bill, both flesh and soul. I have to say that on the weekend, I watched a historical film from the Roman Empire's time of bloom, and I thought to myself, "Thank God that time is moving forward." Let's stick to it. And now the representatives of the KSČM are trying to force us to go back 60 years or until the 19th century. Please, for God's sake, no! I have here two physical proposals for an educational plan according to which the two groups I quoted in my report are governed. If you're interested, I'll give them to you for a peek, or I'll lend them to you, whatever. But look really, there is the education of children and the development of the soul, physical and everything about children. We would like to reduce it here for four years, but let's remember that maybe we should consider the second option, which means raising the age limit. The idea that the boom is about to move into the squads, and how the schools are going to deal with it. At present, schools are addressing this by reducing the number of children who can be placed in groups. I don't think that's a good thing. I do not think that this will become a profitable activity, because in the law there is a proposal that it is not a profitable activity, that it should not lead to profit, and it is also necessary to look at companies and companies awarded in the Municipal community competition to families where there are really good examples of practice, and I think that the Ministry should continue this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u73	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with proper application by Mr Adolf Beznoska, Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after about two and a quarter hours, I have come to the floor, and I will take it really quickly, practically. I will not even address the view left-wing and right-wing, I personally consider the bill to be meaningful. The key factor and the crucial element in raising a child is, will be, was the parent. Only a parent can decide how he wants to educate his child or take care of him during the pre-primary period. I think that this bill quite logically and clearly defines who can provide this service. There are issues of personnel, material, technical, which means that the proposal is not wrong. She's fine. The only one who decides if he wants to trust his child with someone in a children's group is really a parent. Those parents who want to shorten their time with their child have the opportunity to return quickly to the work process. So it's also a chance for employers. I would like us not to compare this proposal. He doesn't threaten kindergarten or nursery, it's a suggestion, another alternative, and let each parent choose. And since the proposal has a head and a heel, I think we should support it. And now that I've gotten here, I'll tell you one practical thing, because here we often swoop around about how we should expand kindergarten. 208 places in kindergarten in Mladá Boleslav in the last 4.5 years meant 21 million crowns of investment. It cost us CZK 21 million to create 208 new places in kindergartens. It's not exactly easy, and everyone's struggling with it, and the potential isn't here. So it has an economic aspect. Let's maybe help those parents who don't have the chance to place their child, because we still don't have enough capacity in Boleslav, so let's get him into that group of kids. And it doesn't matter if someone looks at it from the left or from the right, it's just meaningful and it's an alternative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u75	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. The words will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková, Mrs Chalánková will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u76	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, the law certainly has its advantages, its positives, but I think it has been created unnecessarily quickly, and now we are discussing it unnecessarily with emotions. You know, I have a lot of reservations about him, a lot of voice here, a lot hasn't been heard yet. We had an analysis of why. I'll try to do another analysis here, why not. § 2 - Quote: The activity consisting of babysitting and regular care of the child from one year. Not a word about upbringing. § 5 - Expertise, which I consider very important, qualifications for children under the age of three are appropriate. How is the nanny's professional qualifications defined? Will he probably just have a re-training course? How many hours? § 7 - In one group no more than 24 children. What age range? There is a difference in caring for 24 single-year-olds or six-year-olds, although, I admit, from 7 to 24 children, they are two caring people. Next: The provider is obliged to take into account the age and health of children. It does not solve anything unless the highest number of youngest children in one group is clearly given, the number of children with disabilities and also the highest number of children in the youngest group and the number of people caring for the child group. I do not know how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will take this care and whether the social welfare standards will apply to children's groups. As far as hygiene and spatial conditions and equipment are concerned, these are conditions where I doubt that the State Inspection Authority will have sufficient competence to assess the climate. Another vague and not very elaborate paragraph, and this has already been said, is Section 8 concerning diet. It is nice that the provider is not obliged to provide food but should ensure that no contamination occurs during handling. I can therefore understand that the hygiene rules for school meals will not be complied with. And the next - who will take care of the food? Is she gonna be a teacher? Is it gonna be a nanny? Or will it be another helper? I think it's very unclear and threatening the health of children. Section 10, par. 2 - Obligation to provide and comply with the child education and care plan. According to what basic document? Just the way someone thinks or suggests something? How will speech therapy be treated? How will caring for children with various disabilities be incorporated? All my comments have nothing to do with the volunteering or involuntaryness of my parents. I have no idea why education and education are neglected in this proposal when it is most important for children during this period. I also think, as has been said several times, that it would be much more effective to dust off the capacity of kindergarten schools and to allow children under three years of age to be cared for. The proposed law is something that, although it is an emergency solution for the present, I fear it can become a Trojan horse in the foreseeable future. There is a concern about the salami method of turning a comprehensive system of education into segments suitable for privatisation into a purely commercial service. Long-term developments in secondary or higher education give this concern more than sufficient justification. We consider pre-school and basic education as a key element of individual education, and we therefore promote and promote that pre-school education and education are generally available and free of charge. I see the proposed law as an objective step in the opposite direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u77	Thank you, Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková. And now, Mrs Jitka Chalánková will take the floor, Mrs Nina Nováková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to address this bill from the perspective of a conservative politician. I have been following this proposal for several years, I also know that there was an intention to provide mutual parental assistance, which is not currently there. I may also be in a bit of a conflict of interest because I was a child's doctor, and I was even working as a doctor who was conducting supervision of the sage's care. In 1989 and 1990, children's doctors were actually relieved that care in sage facilities had ended, because we ourselves knew very well what it meant for children, what a disease, what a complication of health and untreated children who were getting into these groups. But that's ancient history. In addition, I am also a mother of four children, so I can compare ways of care in times past and in times less past. We've heard something here about OECD analysis and recommendations on how much it would mean to return moms to the labour market for income to the state budget. It can be counted on about 5-7 billion. crowns if they were to enter immediately or as soon as possible and put the children into custody. Here it is also necessary to stop at what is actually and how you can take into account, calculate and appreciate the care of mothers who take care of their children at home, because caring for children at home, especially care for children under three years of age, for pediatricians up to four, is definitely the best thing for children. I will support this proposal subject to the fact that, on the one hand, it is the addition of those basic services for pre-school children, as we have heard in specific contributions, which are certainly appropriate, and this concerns those women who need to babysit for shorter periods of the week, which are devoted to e.g. scientific work, etc. That's where I think it's appropriate. We have also seen such very nice presentations from countries around us, where these groups of children care work in a children's group. Here it is also important to create an environment so that mothers can be employed on a short-time basis. On behalf of TOP 09, I can say that we are already working on this legislative proposal. But again, I'm going back to the OECD's recommendation that women, as we've read and heard in the last few days, go back to work quickly. This is certainly not the right view for family policy. It's a employment policy. We respond to some OECD recommendations, delay some if not appropriate and do not respond. That's another chapter I'll open some other time. I am glad that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, like some big employers, has returned to a very successful audit family and employment project. I believe that this project is not expensive, but it can show how family and employment can be reconciled. But I'm going back to what I said that I wanted to step out of my position as a conservative politician. We completely ignore the benefits of the family for childcare, the care of mothers at home, which can even be calculated financially in some way. These amounts are very, very high and it is necessary in this context to take into account the care of mothers for their children and to realize that the family is the cornerstone and the basic place of child education. Of course, such a thing will not take into account any particular immediate contribution to the state budget, it will turn out when those generations of children grow up, what kind of people we actually raised - whether people brave, courageous, fearless, or frustrated that they had to get away from their mothers very quickly. For this reason, I have also agreed with my colleagues for TOP 09 so that there will be no imbalance in the care of children in their home environment, and indeed, moms have had the option of choosing, and the financial issue was not more favourable when they put the children in the facility, whether in the group or in the collective pre-school facility. I do not agree with applying a discount for parents in case of placing children in care services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u79	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jiří Mihola. Mrs Nováková then. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u80	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as important as this is a topic, burning and controversial for some of you, the debate or the abundance of contributions to this subject shows. I would like to report that the KDU-ČSL Club will support the bill on the provision of child care services in the children's group. I'll give you a few more words, if you don't mind. [[It's busy in the hall.]] We had the issue of pre-school education as an important part of the pre-election programme or, in general, the KDU-ČSL programme. We also welcome the fact that addressing the long-term shortage of places in kindergartens is one of the priorities of the current Minister of Education. Yet it is clear that the problem of over 50,000 missing places in kindergartens, especially in large cities, will not be solved immediately. We understand the argument that the solution is not in some rapid construction of stone kindergartens. But there is a much faster option, which we apply to and we also had in the program, it is the construction of so-called. modular kindergartens. I'm sure we could find a match here across other political clubs. We also support company kindergartens and other alternatives, but all of this together does not mean that we can solve the problem quickly and satisfactorily. Unfortunately, we cannot cope with this like the neighbors in Germany, where they have legal entitlement to a nursery for a child from three years old and now also legal entitlement to a nursery. We have claimed this, but unfortunately this is not so literal in the government's programming statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u81	Mr President, I will interrupt you and ask for peace again. Please, if you are discussing something other than the Government's bill, transfer the discussion into the lobby and let the President of the KDU-ČSL not only give his opinion but also the opinion of the entire club. Thank you. Please continue, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u82	We see the provision of child care services in the children's group as an alternative, which is the response to demand, i.e. citizens' interest. Despite certain issues, which include the fact that the new service is not included in the application of school laws, I believe that the pros prevail. I don't see this competition as a problem for kindergarten schools. If a kindergarten is of good quality, I would always prefer it personally as a parent. If a kindergarten does not work as it should and does not provide the background that is expected of it, it is quite logical that the parent chooses a better alternative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u83	I thank the President of the KDU-ČSL Club and now, with Mrs Nina Nováková's proper application, Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the Members who will encourage the bill on children's groups to proceed to second reading. Still, I think there should be a few things going on here. We're still talking about the fact that the children's group is an alternative, that it's an alternative, perhaps even some competitive alternative to kindergarten. I believe that is not true. However, we should also say that the children's group is an alternative to something that I personally consider, and because I personally am very conservatively based, so as an alternative to care in the family, because it is the group, the primary social group, which is obliged and also the right to bring the child into life at the very beginning. [[11.30 hours]] This bill is based on a certain poor reality. We live in a society that has not yet found a way to really support the mother or father enough to stay home with the child for a period sufficient for the person of the particular child. We also live in society, ladies and gentlemen, who perceive the care of raising a young child in particular two to three years of age as a vacation, we also have it in terminology, not for an activity that essentially determines the chances for the future of our society. Otherwise, we are in a state that the foundation of society will be adults of working age, and young children and seniors will be placed somewhere. When deciding whether to put my child in a children's group or kindergarten, it doesn't matter, just at a very low age, mothers should consider that this placement of a really small child also involves one very important phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen, a child around the second year of age, according to developmental psychology, is yet to form self-awareness, self-awareness. And if he's in the facility for days and even every day for a week, then the basic attitudes related to the self-awareness of a human being are actually determined by someone other than his family. TOP 09 believes that it is parents who are the guarantors of education, especially in the first stages of the development of their lives. But since TOP 09 is also convinced that everyone is responsible for their decisions, we believe that the services of meaningful facilities, which are children's groups, will be used by parents and families really after careful consideration. That is why I am one of those who will support this bill in moving forward to second reading, but in the context of the thinking that I have just said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u85	Thank you, Mrs Nina Nováková. I'm gonna ask a fellow Zahradník to wait a little while, I've got two things here. First apologies. From this afternoon's meeting, Mr Pavel Havíř apologizes for his work and Mr Marek Ženíšek. Mr Vítězslav Jandák's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all I wanted was this huge euphoria and these speeches - let's stop a little bit, I think we're convincing the convinced. For the most part, we are all in favour of making this point go to second reading. We have many other points ahead of us. And if we want to at least end this week, let's be so kind and think about it, and if our colleague Zahradník, Zlatuška or Mrs Nováková doesn't have such a crucial comment, let's not call it. Let's move this to second reading and then we'll have time to figure everything out. Please brát this as a kind reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u87	I thank Mr Vítězslav Jandák for his time on a factual note. Mr Jan Zahradník is now duly registered. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, Mr President, to ask you to tell Mr Jandák that I would not expect such a betrayal from him. I am, of course, convinced that what I am about to say is extremely important and sovereignly important and that this House must hear it as much as possible in full formation. That this will not be the case, that many colleagues are missing, I will accept that. But my dear colleague and friend Jandák through the President, I will not forgive myself for this remark. I would first like to share with you and my dear colleague the experience I take from this House. One of them is that the Communists are still trying to convince us here how beautiful and perfect life was in the 40's when they ruled as a party. I think we all need to remember, and all those who want to hear it also stress that the time was not beautiful and that their regime was undemocratic and reprehensible. First of all. Secondly, I would like to join those colleagues who mentioned the importance of a family for child education, especially pre-school children. I'm joining this opinion. I think that our hectic times are a problem for parents to be able to transfer their views on their children, so that their grandparents can also transfer their views on their children, and any proposal that slows down the institutional position of pre-school education is only welcome and welcome, as is this one. And finally, third. I would like to mention one important thing. Lately, I have often met with representatives and mayors in South Bohemia and one of the problems they mention is the problem that there is, of course, a current shortage of places in kindergarten. If they want to correct the shortage and increase the number of places, they encounter a number of problems, among other things, that every place in kindergarten is bound to strict hygiene conditions. Thus, when new capacity is to be built in kindergarten, it brings enormous financial costs to my colleague Beznoska, so that all hygiene conditions are fulfilled. I think that this proposal, which is put forward here, does not require such a large investment, which is why I would like to join those who will support it. Thank you for your attention and my colleague Jandák - through you - for your patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u89	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. I think my colleague Jandák in the room has heard comments, including a personal message. Now, Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, but I don't see him here among my colleagues, so he's losing order. At this point, I'm saying he's here. Since you're last logged in, I'm not putting anyone in front of you and I'm giving you my word. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u90	Mr President, thank you. The debate on this law seems to me to be poorly laid down because I believe that the problem we are dealing with is not about social care, but about the education system. And frankly, what bothers me most about this proposal is that under the cover of child care, motivated social considerations creates a structure that can significantly harm further developments in the part that concerns education itself. Preschool education is very important in terms of the quality of the school system and I would like to stress that this is the main thing that we should bear in mind when we take care of the system that we support in the care of children. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Here we have a number of opinions on whether we have good kindergartens, bad kindergartens, whether the child is to be raised in the family, or whether it is to be in a collective establishment, if we ever had a good system here, they didn't have a good system. Most of these considerations were based on selective personal experience that did not have the character of a claim that would be -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u91	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace! I am saying for my fellow Members that it is the last one entered into the debate, and I would like us to end this debate in a timely manner. Please, colleagues, colleagues... Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u92	- did not have the character of a claim which would be, in some way, Verifiable or verifiable. The basic approach that I would emphasise and which we should also take in such things at a time when we are taking measures that can significantly affect the system itself, so the key is called English record based, based on proven experience. The doctors know this well. When a patient comes to see them and tells them that he has just recovered despite not having time to go to the hospital or to see a doctor, but that someone has thrown a few dried poultry bones at him, they do not think that throwing the bones is a method that can be cured, but is engaged in an experiment that differs from random phenomena, placebo, and determines the weight of the effects they give. It must be conclusive that when I administer certain medicine, it has the appropriate effect. [[Big noise in the hall. Bad hearing.]] In education, we very often refer to our own experience. Things like that I've been through at school and that's why I generalize what's good or bad are very common and there's nothing weird about it. We each subconsciously strive in this way to generalize our own individual, singular, experience. But it's good to know that this way we can damage the whole system significantly. I took this debate as a basis for a representative longitudinal study published recently, from the last decade, researchers from the University of London, Oxford University, Birkbeck College and the University of Notthingam, which are all respected schools. It was the first European longitudinal study based on samples of 3,000 children in the range of three to seven years, or a large sample, that can already be demonstrated. The important thing is that it is a longitudinal study, or children are watching what they looked like before entering education, what their benefits looked like during this time, and it was a study of three to seven years. The results of the study are absolutely clear. Pre-school experience in pre-school education increases development in all areas of the child when we relate to children who have not passed pre-school education. The duration of pre-school education is important. Even the early beginning of education is very important. And they say that the early beginning before three years of age is related to better intellectual development. There are things that match the fact that we have experience that preschool care may not have the character of some factory, some simple instruction manual that applies equally in all cases. For example, researchers found that at the time when it was compared, whether children went to kindergarten for full time, five days a week, the whole teaching period, or only partially, there was no better result when it was full time versus partial. Significant benefits are demonstrated for the development of disadvantaged children. Here again, parents who are better situated are better off than, say, disadvantaged minorities, so they can wonder why they force me to put my children in facilities that are better for socially disadvantaged. But the study showed, among other things, that even if we relate to the environment of children at home, the quality of the environment is very important, not the employment of parents, the education of parents or their income. That's what they say in this study. What parents do is more important than who parents are. The high quality of preschool education is related to better intellectual and social behavioral development for children. There is an emphasis on the quality of the environment. It is not just about hiring someone who cares for children at a time when parents are employed, but it is really about educational activities that children must undergo. With regard to the effects that pre-school education has, studies - and I stress its scope and duration, this is the first European study that has been widely conceived and implemented by respected institutions - states that the number of months after which the child attended pre-school education has had an effect for years to come, at the beginning of schooling. This effect was stronger for academic skills than for social behavior. I would point out this. It is usually said that the involvement of children in the collective promotes social cohesion, social behaviour, and so on. Here it turns out that it has a short-term effect, but what is absolutely fundamental and decisive is the starting bridge for further intellectual development in the part that the child passes through the school and, therefore, the quality of the school system and school education itself. The quality of kindergartens was significantly related to the results of children on standardised reading and mathematics tests at the age of six, at the age of seven the relationship was somewhat weaker but still proven. The effect on the quality of social interactions was no longer significant. Children were not different from those who went through pre-school education and who did not go through pre-school education. As regards the comparison of children who have undergone kindergarten education and home environment, analyses show that attending preschool education improves the development of all types of children. Children who did not have pre-school education, i.e. those belonging to the home group, had poorer cognitive assumptions, social relations and concentration when they started primary school. At the moment we talk about the environment in primary schools, we talk about the chances our school system gives, and we look at the defects in the school system, so it is absolutely essential that caring for children before they begin compulsory schooling has the character of preschool education, not just the care of parents who work. There may be different models. I mentioned there was no difference between full time and partial visitation. It is therefore possible to combine these things, but we should put basic investments into the area so that children can be cared for by the pre-school education system, not by social care. Therefore, I would like to propose that this motion be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u93	I thank Mr Jiří Zlatušek. It was the last one to be logged into the debate and the first one to propose the most forceful deal with the proposal. I'm sure the rapporteur is following me. [[He's nodding to consent.]] I'm asking if anyone else from the scene is reporting for the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Madam Secretary? Yes. Please, the final word of the petitioner, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u94	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. I'm gonna be very brief and I'm not gonna comment on everything that's gone down here because I think in a way you've explained it to each other as a debater. I will just say that I am still firmly convinced that for the vast majority of the children in our country, we should secure a place in a public facility, whether it's a nursery or a kindergarten. However, at this point, we are making a proposal for children who do not have this place. It is very nice to talk about the right of a child to be educated in a pre-school facility when these children simply do not have the place, and even with the great effort of this government to fill places in public pre-school care facilities, this will last at least two years. This is simply a long-term issue and we are now presenting a bill that can deal with this in the short term. There's no way I think children's groups are going to put public kindergartens at risk. It's just a thing that's more flexible. The fact that it has less strict rules also has to do with the fact that it does not receive any public contribution. And I think that children's groups will have a place even after the demographic decline, because they will still be used as employers, when - don't forget that you get a place in kindergartens based on where you live. And if someone commutes from the edge of Prague to the centre when I talk about our ministry, then it is much better for these employees and employees to take the child with them to the children's group in the job. I can't imagine how they would deal with a child being in a kindergarten in the outskirts of Prague. They will also be able to use it, for example, small communities that simply do not build the stone nursery - perhaps only need it for five children. So I repeat, I hope that this law will be moved to the next reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u95	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. And now, the rapporteur with the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say the final word for this law. I must start by saying that you have not failed me and, as expected, the discussion of this proposal has been linked to a large number of debaters. I must say that, in total, there were 24 Members and Members who were involved in the debate, some of them repeatedly. I just want to make a few comments for myself. I would like you to realise, or we all are talking about preschool children from one year to the beginning of schooling. This is therefore the most vulnerable time of the child. Furthermore, allow me to make comments, which were here during the discussion. The advanced states, as they were appointed here, are just learning from us. They demand from us our pre-school education plan, and they cry for similar alternatives such as children's groups. It is precisely because the standards in pre-school education have been reduced. And one more little point. It is not always true that if the mother is happy, the child is happy. There were two proposals, one repeatedly. The last proposal for this law was to reject this law and the second proposal was to return to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u97	Thank you, rapporteur. Yes, so we have a motion to dismiss and a three-time motion to return. That's what we're gonna decide. So first we will proceed according to Section 63, i.e. a motion to reject the proposal. I'll check you all out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards to determine the exact number of people present. Once the number of applications has been settled, we will decide on the motion to reject the vote by order number 100. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the motion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 100, from 175 in favour of 36, against 133. The motion was not accepted. The second proposal, which we will decide in the voting order number 101, is for the return of the petitioners for completion. I have begun voting number 101, and I ask who is in favour of returning the proposed bill for completion. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 101 of the 176 present for 38, against 132. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. There was no other way in the debate. Yes, Mrs. Maxová and colleague Zlatuška. Mrs Radka Maxová, first draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u98	Hello. I would propose this law to give a permanent commission on family and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u99	A standing committee for family. Yes. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u100	I propose a school committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u101	The school committee. Yes. Any other suggestions? I can't see, so we're going to vote. First of all, a motion on the commandment of the committee... Just the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u102	I'm sorry. I'd like to make a proposal to the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u103	The rapporteur may, of course, speak at any time under the Rules of Procedure. I didn't close the proposals, and there was no motion for a commandment in the debate. But that's what this passage after the decision to refuse or not to return is for us to deal with. So the easiest thing to do is solve the procedural problem by voting. So first, we will decide in the vote order number 102, order a motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 102 of 178 present for 175, against 1. The motion was accepted. Now the motion for a commandment to the permanent commission on family and equal opportunities. I have begun voting order number 103, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of this Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 103 of 178 for 159, against 14. This proposal has also been adopted. [[12.00 hours]] We will now deal with the commandment of the Board of Education. I've started the vote with order number 104. I ask who is for the commandment of the Committee on Education, Youth and Sports. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 104. From the present 178 for 114, against 40. This proposal has also been adopted. And the final proposal - on the commandment of the Health Committee. I've begun the vote on order number 105, and I'm asking who's for the health committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 105. From the present 178 for 45, against 105. This proposal has not been adopted. The proposal to extend the time limit has not been submitted, so I can say that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Affairs, the Permanent Committee on Family and Equal Opportunities, the Committee on Education, Youth and Sports. The hearing period shall be 60 days. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am ending this point. At the same time, I will hand over the management of the meeting - but before that, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, given that the point just ended has taken us all morning against the assumptions, I will allow myself to come up with procedural proposals. First of all, to place all the points firmly on this morning in the same order this afternoon after the election block. At the same time, in accordance with Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure, we agree to discuss the draft laws today at third reading even after 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u105	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I take it as two procedural proposals from the President of the ČSSD Sklenák Club, whom I will vote on without debate. So the first proposal is - the Rules of Procedure allow that, in particularly justified cases, we can move the block of fixed points today after 14 o'clock 30 minutes. Those fixed points that were included this morning. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Sorry. I declare this vote confusing. I have Mr Benda's technical comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u106	I am sorry, Mr President, I do not want to complicate this. But first, we have to vote that this is a particularly well-founded case, and then we can vote on inclusion. Because it's a different classification than in the morning in the first half hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u107	I take that as a reminder with which the appellant agrees. So, first of all, we will vote on the third reading of the bills after 14 o'clock under Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 107 vote. 177 Members and Members are registered, for 132, against 2. This proposal was adopted. So we will be voting on the second procedural proposal, and that is to move the fixed points from this morning as fixed points today after 14.30. [[Comments from the O.R.]] That's what President Sklenák's proposal sounded like. Make a deal, boys. Please take a technical note from Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u108	Now, please, there must be two votes. The first vote is that this is a particularly justified reason, which seems to be the four-hour discussion of the children's group. And the second is that these points are to be classified for the afternoon. First, it must be voted that this is a particularly serious reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-001-011.u109	Okay. I asked the plaintiff if there were two votes, so there are three. So let's move on to the other. There is a proposal for this if the petitioner adopts it, so that we vote on the fact that moving the fixed points is for a particularly serious reason. I am opening the vote on this. All in favor, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 108. Registered is 178, for 126, versus 1. The proposal was accepted. We will proceed to the third procedural proposal, and this is to move the fixed points that have been placed firmly for this morning. If they are not discussed by 12.30, we will continue to discuss them after 14.30. [[Member Sklenák reminds me that after the election block.]] After the election block. He's at half past 1:00. Thank you. So I'm opening the vote on this. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 109 vote. 178 Members of Parliament registered, for 145, against 1. We have dealt with the procedural proposals. Let's continue with point number
