ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u1	79. Government bill on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws /house print 82/ - third reading I ask that instead of the rapporteur's table, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur of the Social Policy Committee, Ms Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, take the position. Thank you. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 82/4. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Nekl and Mrs Bohdalová are joined. Mr. Nekla to the microphone, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear government, dear colleagues, I often hear the words "I did not want to perform, but" from this place. They assure you that I want to get out, and that's why I'm standing here. There is still more or less a theoretical discussion of supporters and opponents of the adopted law to the so-called. children's groups. I dare to ignore all the theoretical pros and cons and give you, which is perhaps the purest example from practice, and it is very fresh. I will give my information by quoting the speech of my esteemed colleague Pavera at the second reading of this press, when he responded to the words of Mrs Hnyková and Mrs Nohavová. I quote: "To think that the mayor of the village cancels the kindergarten in his village is so naive that it can only be attacked by someone who doesn't know how kindergartens work in municipalities and cities. Every mayor appreciates that he has a kindergarten in his village." And further: "No privatisation of kindergartens by the approval of this Children's Group Act at all. " And now to the core of my performance. On Monday, 16 June, the Board of Directors of the Statutory City of Přerova held a meeting. On the point of school affairs, material was discussed in which the temporary use of the Kindergarten facilities on Karla Kouřilka street was authorised by the Primary School, Svisle, Přerov. The first-degree classes were temporarily located in these premises for lack of space in the school building itself. At my request, whether the kindergarten will be used for its original destination, I was informed by the Deputy Mayor for Education nominated TOP 09 that it would be provided to the children's and maternity center to run children's groups. As a reason he stated that the building today does not meet the standards for the operation of pre-school facilities. So kindergarten isn't, but for a children's group, it's okay. It is already drawing up what is going on here and what quality level of conditions for the operation of children's groups will suffice. Another argument was the one we often hear here. It's not a day-to-day, but a short-term babysitting while parents work. Among other things, it also allows the operation of kindergarten schools, in public terms, the child is there called. By lunchtime. I cannot believe that educational professionals at the City Council do not know about the Ministry of Education's plan to introduce a compulsory preschool year in kindergarten schools and the creation of a fund for the reconstruction of kindergarten buildings and the development of kindergarten education as such. The conclusion I made about it: babysitting becomes a good business, and that's enough. Therefore, I cannot support the proposal for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and now, please, to Mrs Bohdalová's microphone. - With priority rights, Mr. Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would follow up on my previous speaker, but with the opposite opinion. On the contrary, I would like to support the bill for our opposition party. I would also like to remind you that the establishment of a children's group was a proposal with which the government, whose activities we participated, came forward. In fact, I appreciate the fact that the current government has tabled this proposal again. I would just like to remind you that the aim of the amendment is to improve the possibility of caring for pre-school children in cases where it is not possible to use pre-school facilities for capacitive or other reasons. And this is a better way than the second one that we hear is also planned by the government, and that is to invest in the development and construction of kindergartens, because it is not very sensible for the future, because, as we all know, in terms of population developments, the situation with a shortage of preschool facilities will be resolved in the coming years and, on the contrary, it will be necessary to invest in the development of primary schools. The capacity problem is helped by children's groups, which are investment-friendly, flexible and help to compensate for the short-term shortcomings of kindergarten places. But there's one more important thing, a little bit of an idea, I'm not denying it. The state must trust its parents. First of all, parents should let parents decide what is best for their children, but they should also provide them with the conditions to provide their children with the best care. This is also offered by children's groups, and they also offer a better chance of returning to work for those parents who want it. The right to choose parents, which educational and educational path they choose for their children, is also ensured by the establishment of a children's group, and from all these points of view, the children's group is an appropriate tool. So, to sum up, the children's group is suitable both from the perspective of expected population development and from the economic point of view and from the point of view of supporting family policy and is also good for pre-school children. For all these reasons, the Civil Democratic Party will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u5	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, please get to Mrs. Bohdalová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u6	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the third reading of the law, which is storming not only this House, but also the storm of the public. We're talking about whether or not children's groups. I would like to say that we are actually dealing with a situation that arose in two factors in the 1990s. In the 1990s, birth rates plummeted. Two figures: 1451 children were born in České Budějovice in 1992, in 1996 748, or exactly half. At the time, I was the deputy mayor, and we were faced with a solution to the situation, what to do with the situation. What we did was we shut down some kindergarten schools. I have to admit that to this day, some residents of České Budějovice blame me. We also closed them because not only did we have sufficient capacity, but what we did, that we didn't sell these buildings, that when the children were enough, we would open them. But then a new hygiene decree came in hand in hand, which concerned both catering facilities and social facilities in schools, and we had to build a toilet bowl for five children instead of one toilet bowl for three children. It was precisely defined how many children's towels must be apart, etc. It was a lot of standards, and they were very expensive for those who wanted to rebuild or rebuild nursery schools. However, I must say that in some of the incriminating places where the second factor was, housing construction was carried out without any civic amenities at the time. This situation took place after 2005 and the municipalities began to miss places in kindergartens. Many regions, such as the South Bohemia Region, have created funds to create places in kindergartens. In district towns other than Budějovice it has already been done, but we still have the locality of České Budějovice, where we still lack places in kindergarten schools. What does that mean? Of course, that we will be happy, the city will be happy to have alternatives for a certain transitional period before the situation is settled. And the alternative is the children's group we're talking about. I would like to say, however, that the law, as it is proposed, seems to me that it launches children's groups a little unbridled. We all know the coalition agreement, we know the government's programming statement, and it stretches as red thread that the final year of kindergarten will be the first compulsory year of primary school. I think that this idea is not only for members of the coalition parties, but we have also met this idea with the current opposition parties, and we all want it because we want all children to enter primary school as if from the same starting point. That's why I think that when this standard comes to the House, it will definitely pass by a large majority. But in order for this standard to be heard here and to agree with it, we must have sufficient capacity for places in kindergarten schools. And I learned that on Monday, the government had just approved a program where municipalities or founders would be able to build nursery schools with the help of the state. That is why I have been talking for so long about my first amendment, which is contained in Houses document 870, and that is the limitation of children's stay in children's groups from one year to the next - I have it in variants - up to four years, and the second option is from one year to five years. I suggested it because I have already found that almost 99.5 percent of children over four years of age and over five years of age are placed in kindergartens, even where there are no places in kindergartens. Those little kids aren't stationed. That's why I suggested the restriction, because I'd like the baby to actually go through a classic preschool facility with a framework education program like kindergarten. That's why I'm submitting my variant proposal. It will be up to you if you choose to stay in a children's group for one to four or one to five years. Second thing. At first I talked about the fact that children's groups, their educational programme and the child care programme should be controlled by school inspections. It is, of course, nonsense, because that would make the children's group into a school facility, and that's what we don't want. That is why I have a second amendment to Section 21 that control can be carried out in these children's groups by the competent municipal authority, the Troika municipality. The last thing I propose and which, if the law passes, is an accompanying resolution, and that is for the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health to sit together at the negotiating table and discuss the reduction of hygiene standards for the establishment of a kindergarten. One maybe funny example, but an example for all of us. In 1995, when you wanted to set up a kindergarten, all you had to do was leave the garden with two square feet per child. In the second half of the 1990s, this dimension changed to four square metres. What does that mean? They can't open them because they're two square meters short of enough gardens, and more and more. I therefore propose in this accompanying resolution that these standards be reduced. It's one more thing. In many municipalities, the shortage of kindergartens addresses those modular systems that can serve perfectly for a transitional period, when the lack of places in kindergarten schools is perfect. They can't, because the property of the kindergarten where they built it, it's mostly housing schools, it's not big enough for the school to run. [[11.10 hours]] I would therefore beg you, fellow Members, if we approve this law, so that we can also approve this support measure to release our hands to the mayors and founders. This will also actually open the way for us to change Act No. 561/2005 Coll., so that we can introduce the last year of kindergarten as the first compulsory year when the child attends the school. I apologize for explaining this to you so extensively, but unfortunately I was not a member of the Chamber of Deputies when the law was at first reading. Thank you for your attention and please support your amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Now, please, to the microphone, another duly signed up for the debate, Mrs Langšádlová. Please, madam, you have the floor. Before you begin, I will ask my colleagues to lower their voices or go out of the Chamber to negotiate their affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u8	Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I would like to thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for presenting a proposal for a child group law. Yes, it is our duty to create alternatives to child care. It is our duty to create alternatives for parents who want to reconcile their professional life with family life. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] Without a doubt, there is a great discussion about the age of children, the size of groups, the teaching work in the children's group, and all these discussions are, of course, justified. However, we have been here for 25 years to see many of the activities of parents that already provide thousands of children with care for children at this preschool age. They are alternatives in the form of parent centres, family centers, forest kindergartens. Many of these facilities were created without any financial support from the state. [[There's a shush in the O.R. to lower the noise levels.]] Most of these facilities are based on the needs of parents. And it is parents who have the right to decide in what environment, in which facilities care is to be provided for their children. I would like to draw your attention, fellow Members, to the fact that if this law is adopted in the form presented and all these alternatives which do not fit into the bill, we are thus liquidating them. These are mainly some mother, family centers and forest kindergartens, where thousands of children attend. I find this unacceptable. We have an alternative to parent centres to create a new version of child care. Of course, this will always be the basis of kindergarten. It is very good if children's centres are created here as in many countries of Europe. But I implore you not to eliminate yet functioning variants at the same time. And the fact that there is a one-year delay, where, for example, forest kindergartens will still be able to function for a year, I consider it completely inadequate, because there was no indication from the negotiations I attended that the chances within a year would be to ensure this problem, to resolve it. Therefore, I urge you to support the amendment adopted to the Commission under points C6 through C9, because this will ensure voluntary registration and existence, the further existence of many facilities that serve very well in the care of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Chalánková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I've only had a short time. I would like, on the one hand, to follow up with my previous speaker, Mrs Langšádlová. I am very surprised that there is really a threat to the Forest Kindergarten Institute. Furthermore, I believe that such a fundamental change and such a possibility should be accompanied by a broad social consensus, and not by such a rather high-level debate and by the House plenary. I think it would be a good idea for some things that are unclear and not discussed on the basis of committee and committee discussions, where there is a real threat to these forest kindergartens and some kindergartens, to provide childcare services, so I would like to make a procedural proposal when my colleagues speak in this debate, to return this press to the second reading and to correct the necessary issues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u11	Thank you. I am registering your proposal and we will vote on it after the end of the debate. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u12	Thank you. Madam Secretary, from the opinion of the MPSV, I understand that forest kindergartens and maternity centres will also fall into the regime of children's groups under the current legal condition. The condition of the majority of the TOP 09 and the Mayor's approval of the proposal is, first, the approval of an amendment extending the adjustment period from six to twelve months, and, second, the promise by the Minister or Ministers that such an adjustment will be prepared and adopted during these twelve months - in particular, sanitary regulations, but not only those - which, after the expiry of this period, will enable the existence of forest kindergartens and maternity centres, albeit in a different form, but essentially in the same form. The majority of the TOP 09 and the Mayor are convinced that the adoption of the Children's Group Act should in no way mean their liquidation. Madam Secretary, can you promise that this requirement to regulate the relevant regulations after the adoption of the Children's Group Act will be fulfilled? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u13	Thank you, Madame. Now, please contact the microphone of another duly logged in, Mr Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u14	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to briefly comment on the amendment tabled by Mrs Nováková, who basically wants children in children's groups to have to follow an individual vaccination plan, or it is the release of a requirement that is classic in kindergartens, where parents of children have to demonstrate that children are vaccinated. This proposal is probably inspired by various groups that try to question the importance of vaccination and try to basically inspire parents not to inoculate their children. This is a phenomenon of this time when a lot of parents are subject to information that they download from the Internet and spread by various pressure groups. Basically, the condition in which our population is in the Czech Republic today is the result of a long time when our vaccination was at a very good level and was a very good vaccination of the population. If there are ever more children who are refused for various reasons and prejudices and basically misleading information to inoculate, they will postpone vaccination, these people are technically being called vaccination-denial doctors nowadays, then the importance of collective protection in the population falls. If the percentage of vaccine is essentially reduced, there may be a problem. Serious diseases that have been considered eradicated may return. Of course, this risk is growing in connection with the pressure of refugees from Africa, from other countries getting closer to the Czech Republic and getting to the Czech Republic. I very much warn that we should be subject here to these pressure groups that are spreading misinformation that is unfounded. There are a number of children who can't be vaccinated because it's basically not allowed by their medical condition. [[11.20 hours]] These children are covered by collective protection that a certain degree of vaccination is ensured in a certain percentage of the children's population. If there is an increase in the number of parents who, for various reasons, are not serious, refuse to inoculate their children, then this collective protection will fall and it may occur that the diseases that have been considered to be eradicated will return. Unfortunately, I think that the Czech state is doing very little to educate and explain the importance of vaccination in the Czech Republic. Therefore, I would like to ask you not to support this amendment, which relaxes collective protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u15	Thank you, Mr Member, and I now have Mrs Nováková's point of order. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, one of the important tasks of the representative, the representative of our citizens, is for someone to come forward in democracy to express the opinion of the minority. I've told you twice I'm not against vaccination. But at the same time, this group of parents, whose voice I am here now, are parents I respect because they are parents who think very responsibly about the health of their children. And the only thing I think will be the aim of my amendment is to start talking about it, at least to start discussing it. But I repeat again, I'm not opposed to vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u17	Thank you, Mrs Nohav, for keeping the time limit, and now, please, to Mrs Nohavová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a decision as to whether or not the children's group does. Yes. So if we want to solve the problem of the shortage of places in kindergartens by a children's group, well, let's solve it, but let's solve it for the duration of the baby boom that will pass within three years. The current lack of places is local and temporary and already today children's groups where there is demand for them work without any problems and no law forbids such activity. That is why the law itself is redundant. Okay. Therefore, if we are to have it, I propose limiting the effectiveness of this law to its current need, which will pass around 2017. This amendment is also in line with the Czech Education Policy Strategy by 2020, where the support of the children's group is referred to as a temporary alternative, until the capacity increase of kindergarten schools. I therefore ask the House to support the amendment to the effectiveness of this law for a period of three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Before I invite Mrs Maxová to the microphone, allow me to read two apologies. Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes from today's meeting from 14:00 to 18:00 for reasons of work, and Minister Válková from 12.30 to 16.00 for reasons of work. Now, please get to Mrs. Maxová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, I see that this subject is quite seriously sparked by our House, and I would just like to comment on the voluntary registration that has been sent to all of you Members by e-mail. I do not consider her happy because there was some agreement that if there was a proposed voluntary record, it would, of course, also apply to tax concessions that only those providers who register will have. Unfortunately, it didn't. Two seemingly conflicting principles were balanced in the creation of the Children's Group Act, namely the principle of parental freedom as the bearer of parental responsibility and the principle of guarantee of quality determined by the State's activities. It is the subject of the activity, which is the regular care of the child, including the child of a very low age, that is why the Children's Group Act, as presented to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, provides for mandatory registration of providers. The parent's active and responsible approach is then calculated by means of the provisions of Section 13 on the child group, which allows to leave a number of questions concerning the specific care of his child to his contractual arrangement with the provider. The anchoring of the principle of voluntary registration means a greater emphasis on the first of the aforementioned approaches. In the event that the principle of voluntary registration of the provider is enshrined in the Children's Group Act, it will be necessary to adjust the related tax aid measures that accompany the proposal in the form of - firstly - the tax deductibility of the costs of the operation of the own pre-school childcare facility by the employer or its contribution to the operation of the establishment, provided by other entities, including non-profit sector providers, for children of their own employees, secondly - the possibility of applying tax depreciation to the acquisition of their pre-school childcare facilities, i.e. the acquisition of tangible assets, and thirdly - tax discounts on parents if they take advantage of non-parent care for pre-school children. However, these measures should apply only to services explicitly governed by the law, registered or registered, and this is not yet completed in this case. With regard to the individual issues of forest kindergartens, kindergartens, as they are called, I am in favour of such care for children, which is not bound by disproportionately strict hygiene and technical requirements for the premises in which this activity is provided. It is true that, in the absence of regulation in the field of school and follow-up technical hygiene regulations, the activities provided by the members of the association would be drawn into the regulation of the Children's Group Act, which would de facto make it impossible for forest nursery schools to operate so far. However, on the basis of the communication of the representatives of the association, I believe that the activities of forest nursery schools should not primarily be subject to the regulation of the Children's Group Act, since it does not provide for pre-school education, but only care. The Association has always declared its interest in providing full-fledged pre-school education and this is how the pilot verification of the operation of forest nursery schools was carried out. The association's requirement must apply to the rules governing health and technical requirements for kindergartens in general and thus refers to the need to substantially revise these provisions in terms of their effectiveness and proportionality not only in relation to the nature of the activity targeted by the members of the association but also in relation to the establishment of kindergartens in general. That is what Mrs Bohdalová was talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u21	Madam, I am so sorry, but I ask my colleagues to keep their voices down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u22	It is these regulations that may be the reason why many potential founders, including local authorities, are discouraged from setting up new nursery schools. In this context, parliamentary calls were made to the Ministry of Health, to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports as well as to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to jointly seek solutions in the area of adaptation of quoted standards. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs expresses its support for these initiatives and therefore proposes to amend the transitional provisions of the Children's Group Bill so as to extend for up to one year the period for which service providers falling within the scope of the Children's Group Act must comply with the requirements laid down by the law. This transitional period can also be used to adapt technical and hygienic requirements, which will also satisfy so-called providers of forest nursery schools. As Mrs Kovářová has already been told here, we would like the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, including Members, to make every effort to make use of the period of one year and to preserve the schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u23	Thank you, ma'am. I now have Mr Svoboda in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first address the amendment by my colleague Nováková on child vaccination. Inoculation of children is a serious matter. At present, we have an inoculation of children's population at about 91.1 percent. That's an important number, because if the vaccination rate is above 80 percent, it means that the infection isn't actually present here, and even a child who hasn't been vaccinated for any serious reasons for allergies or for something can't actually get the infection. On the other hand, as a right-wing politician, of course, I understand the right of parents to make decisions about their child. Let me say a few numbers about that. In 2011, those who refused vaccination were 110, in 2012, about 123, and last year, 210 were denied vaccination. These are numbers that really mean a very minority group. On the other hand, we have a law that speaks of vaccination as mandatory. At the moment we vote on this dislodgement, about saying that individual vaccination is possible, I'm just pointing out that we're transferring the whole responsibility to a pediatrician. This is a huge problem, because he legally has to inoculate the child and does not have to inoculate it just because of special consideration - allergies, infections and so on, what is listed. Children's doctors are dealing with this in some way. They know how difficult it is to have a discussion with my parents, but according to the information I have because I am very close to children's doctors, I know that even the problematic cases where parents refuse to do so can somehow be solved and medically controlled. The moment we open the door to the fact that, in fact, some other law, regardless of the fact that we have compulsory vaccination, opens the area, may mean that the number of resistors will increase. So I repeat again, we have two things on the table that are against each other. One thing is freedom of decision-making, and on the other hand, the fact that when the percentage of vaccination falls, the positive significance of vaccination disappears. And I would very much advocate that we let the children's doctors who work with the family know her, know her problems, and take responsibility for that. Let us not forget that, in this case, in addition to the responsibility of the parents, we have the responsibility of the doctor responsible and we cannot interfere with his responsibility to give him another contradictor order. And as for the other thing that's being discussed here, that means kindergarten or school, I'd be very happy if what works is preserved, although it's also clear to me that it's a very small number of those working kindergartens, but it works. And it would be very wrong for us to put them outside the law or make their situation difficult.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. It's not like that. I therefore conclude the debate and ask the appellant if she is interested in the final word. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u26	Madam President, honourable Members, I just wanted to say very briefly on the issue of forest kindergartens. I am in favour of you agreeing that amendment which extends the transitional period to 12 months. At that time, it is time for me, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education, to agree on the conditions under which forest kindergartens and maternity centres can function here in the future, because, of course, our interest in these facilities is not in any way to make it impossible for us to exist. However, on the other hand, I think it is of interest to all of us, whatever the alternative is, to at least have some rules. Otherwise, I certainly intercede for the approval of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u27	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the final word. It's not like that. Then I ask another rapporteur, Mr Zdeněk Soukup, if he is interested. He doesn't. And Mr. Ploc? [[He's not paying attention.]] Are you interested in the final word, Mr. Ambassador? [[He doesn't.]] It's not like that. I will now call my colleagues from the lobby. In the debate, there was a motion to repeat the second reading of this law. Before I begin the vote, we shall check the presence of Members. I'll check you all out. Please register with your cards again. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Thank you and I repeat that we are voting on the proposal to repeat the second reading of this law. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is the resolution number 108, in which 171 Members are enrolled, for 61, against 80. - I have a factual comment from Mr. Kořenko. Wrong. - Thank you. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur to announce the voting procedure, then to speak to the various amendments and to comment on them before the vote. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to present to you the draft procedure for voting of the Government Bill on the provision of child care services in the children's group and on the amendment of related laws. It's House Press 82. I have to say, it's quite challenging, so I'd be happy to have you pay attention. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first introduce you to the whole voting procedure that we would approve and then proceed to the vote on our own proposals. The second reading of the bill did not make a motion for rejection, so we can vote on the various amendments mentioned in the press 82/4. [[The noise in the hall stopped.]] The first would be the vote on the amendment referred to in points A, A1, A2, A3 - the resolution of the Committee on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports concerning Section 3 and the addition of providers by associations. Furthermore, the amendments referred to in B1, B2, B3 - these are amendments from the resolution of the Social Policy Committee, and also from C3, C4, C5 - these are amendments from the resolution of the Permanent Committee on Family. These are identical. The next group of votes would consist of the remaining amendments under letter C, first C1, the words "watching" are deleted, then jointly by C2, C6, C7, C8, C9, C10, C11, C12 - it concerns voluntary entry into the child care system in the child group under the envisaged law, and also by C13 an adjustment of the transitional provision. I would point out here that if the C1 is approved, it is no longer possible to vote on J1 because they are identical. Furthermore, if C13 is approved, it is no longer possible to vote on J2, they are also identical. If C1 or C2, C6 to C12 is approved, no longer voting on D and E except for point E3. And if C10 and C11 are approved, G3 and G4 cannot be voted on. I believe you're all orienting. [[Laughs in the hall.]] [[11.40 hours]] I would also point out that C3, C4 and C5 are not voting when voting for A. Third: We would then vote on the amendments tabled in the second reading of the bill referred to in points D, E, F, G, H, I, J and the accompanying resolution as follows: I recommend that we first deal with those amendments relating to Section 2, i.e. the age range of the child until which you can visit the child group and these are amendments under letters D, E, except E3, F, G1 and H1 variants A and B and in that order. Point 3.1 of Mrs Marta Semelová's amendment, letter E1 plus E2.1 plus E2.2 plus E4, is a new text of Section 2 under three years of age and, in substance, related education. Here, however, this amendment is voteable only if C1 or C2 and C6 to C12 are not approved. Furthermore, we would vote on the amendment by Mrs -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u29	I'm sorry, but the vote is really difficult, please have your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u30	I would just like to point out that all club guarantors have received this draft voting procedure, so they are familiar. We would also vote on Mrs Jana Hnyková's amendment, which is under letter F, until the fourth year of age. However, it is voteable only if there is a vote on the previous, i.e. E1 plus E2.1 plus E2.2 plus E4, and this will not be approved. The approval of C1 or C2 and C6 to C12 does not matter here either. We would also vote on Mrs Alena Nohavová's amendment, which is under the letter G1, until the fourth year of age. Here, again, I point out that it is voteable only if there is a vote on the amendment under F and this will not be approved. The approval of C1 or C2 and C6 to C12 also does not matter here. This amendment is factually the same as the amendment under letter F, only being distinguished by the word 'achieving'. We would also vote on Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová's amendment, which has an amendment under H1, variant A, and this is until the end of the school year in which the child reached four years of age, and is only voteable if the G1 vote is taken and this is not approved. Here again, the approval of C1 or C2 and C6 to C12 does not matter. We would also vote on the amendment by Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, and it is H1, variant B, until the end of the school year in which the child reached five years of age. And here again, I would like to point out that it is only voteable if there is a vote on H1, variant A, and this one is not approved. Here again, the approval of C1 or C2 and C6 to C12 does not matter. Furthermore, we would vote on Mr Zdeněk Soukup's amendment, which is under letter D, and on the new text of Section 2 until the end of the school year in which the child reached five years of age. And here again, it is voteable only if the C1 or C2 and C6 through C12 are not approved or if the H1 vote is taken, variant B, and this will not be approved. Furthermore, we would move to the next vote group - now we have dealt with the age of the child - to deal with the rest of the parliamentary proposals tabled, as follows: Mrs Semelová's amendment under point E3 concerns Section 8 - catering. In addition, Mrs Nohavová's amendment to the G2 applies to Section 6, supplementing paragraph 4 - the non-profitability of the service provided. G3 and G4 are one vote and concern Sections 22 and 23 - the principle of non-profit provided care. However, they shall be put to the vote only if the C10 and C11 are not approved. Furthermore, we would vote on the G5 with regard to Section 32 - effectiveness. We would then vote on Mrs Bohdalová's amendment under point H2, concerning Section 21 - control. In addition, Mrs Nováková, under point I, concerns Section 11 (1) (i) - vaccination of the child. Furthermore, Mrs Maxová's amendment to J1. - I think you all know about it. You're great. - It concerns Section 2. Here the words "watching" are deleted and it is voteable only if the vote on C1 is not taken. In addition, Mrs Maxová, under point J2, concerns Section 25. This changes the period from 6 to 12 months. It shall be put to the vote only if it is not voted on by C13. We're coming to a conclusion. Next would be the vote on the motion for an accompanying resolution tabled by Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. The last would be the vote on the law as a whole. So much for the procedure of voting and I would ask the House for their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u31	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before we proceed to the vote on the approval of the procedure, Mr Stanjura is entered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u32	Thank you. I think it's standard to design a procedure, it's not with priority rights. I would like to propose minor amendments to the proposal for a negotiation procedure. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I don't think I said anything funny, but okay. In the block at point C, when we rule out C3, C4, C5, which is repeated with B1 and B2, B3 and A1 and A2 and A3, you suggested that, in addition to C1, we vote on the other points C2, C6 to C12 in one block. I propose that we vote separately on each of them, just as we will vote separately on paragraph C13. That means, from that block, you wanted those seven letters with one vote. I think it's five or six. I want to ask first, and then, if necessary, I would have an amendment. I'd like to ask if they weren't disturbing the rapporteur. Now I'm lecturing suggestions. I'm sorry, but it's not a very simple procedure, and I want to minimize the risk of not voting exactly the way we want it to be. Then I want to ask. The rapporteur was speaking here as if the draft of procedures, as we will vote, let me put it simply, about the age variance. There are about seven or eight suggestions. Okay. She said that first we have to vote on 1 to 4 if it does not pass, we will vote on 1 to 4 in another diction, with the words "achieved" and if it does not pass 1 to 4 with the word "achieved," we will vote on 1 to 4 when it reaches it during the school year when the child has his birthday. I wonder why you chose this procedure? I find it completely illogical that you chose one. I don't see logic. Now you're saying we can't vote on the other if we vote on the first one. I really didn't realize why you chose it that way. If it were up to me, I would recommend that we vote first four or five, in indicative terms, that we can do that. If we decide four, we know that we will choose from three options, as the appellants suggested above all, how to assess when the end of the period is. The most reasonable is the school year, because when someone lives to be on May 12th, four years old, a child, may stay home on May 13th, depending on the diction when it's exactly up to the age of four. [[11.50 hours]] But I'd rather answer first, then I'd accept a change. I think it's better to decide by an orientation vote, if it's four or five. I don't think there's a dispute about that one year, there's a similar proposal. And if we decide four or five, I suggest we vote on it first - I think it was Mrs Bohdalová, now I don't know, I'm sorry, until the end of the school year in which the child reaches four years. [[unintelligible]] That sounds like the smartest thing to me. And that should be the first. But that's not how it's designed. First it's designed without the words of four years, then it's a four-year version, and then it's this. But it seems logical to me the other way around. So that's actually two suggestions. First, at points C4 through C12, and then turn around, or first decide whether four or five, and if four, then decide on the diction during the school year. And at the moment we approve, we can all say that everyone else is unvoteable, which concerns the age range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. And now, with priority rights, Mr Kalousek... [[Mr Kováčik reminds the President of his enrollment.]] Mr Kováčik, Mr Kalousek and Mrs Bohdalová's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u34	I also have a priority right, Madam President, and I have applied earlier. I don't remember this complicated procedure being here - or at least for a very long time there hasn't been such a complex procedure. And the alternative proposals put forward by Mr Stanjura, and which will certainly be presented by Mr Kalousek, go into so much detail that I would like us to deal with this perfectly well that we do not come to a situation where the House will leave the poorly voted law, the poorly voted amendments, and when we might need to be corrected from the Senate afterwards, of course, with a desire to own them. Therefore, I would only ask, after all the proposals for a change of procedure fall, for a break at the KSČM club meeting lasting 20 minutes so that all those proposals that fall here against the procedure can be clarified by the rapporteur, the proposers of the changes and the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u35	Yes, Prime Minister. That's what we're gonna do. Now, please, to Mr Kalousek's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize in advance because I will put forward a proposal that is rather irregular and may not be acceptable to most of you, but I will do it for peace of mind. The long experience of both the civil servant and the Member tells me - on the basis of this number of amendments and such complicated procedures, that if we vote and vote today, no matter what, this cannot end in anything other than a pasquila. [[complete silence in the hall]] It just can't end any other way than paquilas. So I am very much begging you, because I feel that this struggle of personal opinion and political struggle has made the child disappear a little bit. I don't see that in this discussion anymore. The Children's Group Act, but I don't see the baby anymore. I very much beg you, if you would not consider - it is really just a request, it is a non-standard - if today, if any minister were to open a debate at this time, he would allow the debate to re-submit a proposal to either interrupt the next meeting, perhaps extraordinary, or return to second reading... No, I can't do that anymore. So to interrupt and cross the political spectrum, an expert group of our colleagues could meet to do so and try to find a way out at the end of which it would not be pasquil. If we vote today, the paquivile is 100% sure which one of us gets out. Please consider it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u37	Thank you and with priority rights, Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry I beat my colleague, but I did it because I wanted to follow up on my colleague Kalousek. [[Ms Bohdal]] And I think the procedure is unusually complicated, that it hasn't really been like this for a long time. Now, we've heard some suggestions on how this procedure is supposed to look, but it's hard for any of us to imagine this procedure in that amount without having it on paper in front of us, we don't see it. And it may indeed be that the law will not be what we all would have imagined leaving the Chamber of Deputies. I want to support the proposal we've heard here, and at least put it firmly on another day or maybe another meeting. But I think it would be good for the law and for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u39	Thank you. Now, please get to Mrs. Bohdalová's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u40	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure is not as complicated as it was difficult to explain. But I'd only like to explain the four years. There is one suggestion: after reaching the age of four years of the child. What if it happens that the child will be four years in January - that's when we'll be transferring him to somewhere else for the four months of the school year? And my proposal is: after reaching four years of age in a given school year. So what we're saying is that a kid, when he reaches four years of age in the school year, can go through all of that in the children's group. It's that simple. And that's why I've been making a proposition about finishing the school year. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u41	Now with priority rights, Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u42	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, we are in a situation that will be difficult to escape without losing flowers. I would therefore like to join Mr Kalousek's request at the moment to reopen the debate with any of the ministers, so that the proposal for interruption can be loaded, with the fact that it is possible to guarantee that the interruption can be made by this Friday, so that on Friday - on the day on which a properly third reading can be done - a third reading will take place after clarification of the procedural promoters, the law, all those who had doubts. So that we don't have to explain individual doubts again in the factual debate, because it wouldn't have done anything anyway. The question of the procedure is that something shouldn't be done wrong. If, please, nicely, our joint request to reopen the debate and the motion for a interruption is answered, my request for a break in the club's meeting is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u43	Thank you, and I have some factual points that I can't let go because the debate is over. So only if you have any comments on the procedure. And I mean Mrs Maxová and Mr Kolovratník. Isn't that right? It's not. Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u44	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, she's not that complicated about the procedure. She enjoyed it a little bit and made it seem difficult. But whoever you've been in the House longer, I'm sure you'll be right that we've had much more complicated prints here. There are several drafts dubbed and some are there three times. But okay. If the KSČM club's break was announced here, since we have the elections scheduled for 12:30 and we have fixed points after lunch, we probably have nothing left but to vote on Friday. But what I'm saying is that those who deal with this material are discussing it in the House for a few months and they know very well what they have ahead of them and what they're going to vote on. So it's not like anybody knows about it, and there's some sort of gag coming out of it, as it was said here. I don't think there's a problem voting at all. And those who dealt with it know what it's about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u45	Mr. Stanjura's microphone and then the Prime Minister's.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u46	I agree with President Sklenák. I think if we don't talk any more and use the 20 minutes, we'll be able to vote it out in 11 minutes before the election. I agree it's nothing dramatic. My amendments are also not dramatic. Basically, there were only three. One vote will turn into seven. I think we're able to vote for it. I mean, whether the legislative proposal is pasquil or not, it is not the procedure or the number of amendments that governs it, but the content of how it ends at the end. So I personally don't worry about it, and I think we're able to do it today. I'm not talking anymore, so we can meet in 20 minutes, and before the election, they'll start five minutes later, we'll make it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u47	Thank you. The Prime Minister therefore opens the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u48	Hello. I would just like to cordially say hello to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u49	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, just two short things. I'd like to turn against the fact that the rapporteur here was enjoying something. I think it is more necessary to show her respect and thanks that almost the first time, and the applause here, after all, has dealt with such a complex material and has tried very sincerely to explain all the contexts that may arise. So she informed the Chamber of Deputies according to her best knowledge and conscience. First of all. And two. I think it's a good thing if we interrupt this point by this Friday, if we have some fixed points in third reading, then immediately after them, if we don't, we'll continue as the first point in third reading on Friday. This is the proposal I'm making here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u51	It can be done. It could be like the first point on Friday. Since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on it without debate. In order to be safe, I shall invite all Members present in the foyer. I am opening the vote on a procedural motion to interrupt this item and to move its actions as a fixed item on Friday. Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 109, to which 177 Members are enrolled, of which 93 were in favour, against 31. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I am therefore interrupting the negotiations on this point. [[Restlessness in the room.]] If it's factual, I can't let you near the microphone. I am sorry because there is a closed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u52	I just want to know that my voting device didn't work. I couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u53	So that's an objection. All right, we will therefore vote on the objection to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] I'll reset the vote. I'll check everyone out and ask for your log-in again. I declare this vote confusing. We are now re-voted on the objection to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Against? By voting, I conclude that the objection has been accepted. We will therefore vote again on the proposal to suspend the negotiations in paragraph No. 79. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion to adjourn. Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 112, to which 172 Members are enrolled, of which 79, against 62. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. Now, please, to the microphone with the priority right of Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u54	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I respect and perhaps envy the fact that most of you have a brighter intellect than we do, but I still ask you to understand us slower that we need to settle the procedure, and I therefore ask for a 25-minute break at the TOP 09 meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u55	Thank you. I am therefore interrupting negotiations until 12.30, when we will continue in a fixed programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our negotiations after the break. At 12:30, we have fixed points. They're voting points. The first is a proposal for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. I would ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor and introduce us to what awaits us on the fixed points. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-004-079.u57	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. Thank you for the floor and for the fact that we can get to the proposed electoral points at a fixed time. And so I am now switching from the transport and transport infrastructure regime to the electoral commission, and I come before you as the chairman of the electoral commission. I'll give you three election points. I guarantee we should be fast and fast today. Those points are pretty simple. In two cases, we will vote in the standard secret way in the State Acts, as you are customary. So let's get to it. Let's start with the point.
