ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I wish you a wonderful afternoon and I begin another meeting on the 8th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. So far, I have a replacement card number 1 for Mr Kalousek. They ask if anyone else has a spare card. That is not the case yet. Member of Parliament, Mr Strnadlová - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament Okleštěk Beznoska Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Markéta Adamová European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - Opálka Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Jan - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Rujbrová - European Parliament - Plzák Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - Marková Hubáčková - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament Petr Fiala Parliament - European Parliament - European Pecková - European Fiedler - European Brázdil - European Parliament - European Parliament Schwarzenberg European Parliament - Radim Holeček - European Parliament - Havíř Parliament - Hájek Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - Běhounek Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Hamáček - Votava Kolovratník - European Parliament - European Parliament - Velebný Parliament Matušovská European Parliament - European Kádner - European Parliament - European Nykl - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - Lorencová Parliament - European Parliament - European Huml - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Parliament - European Maxová - European Parliament - European Bebarová - European Parliament - European Union - European Parliament - European Union - European Čihák - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Wernerová - European Skalický - European Union - European Vácha - European Karamazov - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Zavadil - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Pospíšil - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Borka - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - sedlář Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Ploc - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - European Union - And now excuses for the members of the government. Minister Babiš Andrej - for no reason, Minister Herman - for foreign travel, Minister Jurečka - for working reasons, Minister Mládek - for foreign travel, Minister Němeček - for working reasons, Minister Prachař - for working reasons, Minister Stropnický - for working reasons, Minister Zaorálek - for foreign travel. Furthermore, I have an apology from Mr Berkovec, who has been apologizing today since 15.30 for work reasons. So that's to apologize. [[There's too much noise in the room.]] Next up, I've got some spare cards. Mrs Fischerová votes with alternate card number 2 and Mrs Konečná card number 3. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the further procedure for the discussion of the approved programme of the 8th meeting, the honourable Member proposes the following amendments: Firstly, to comply with the request of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová, and to firmly include paragraph 60 of the approved programme, it is the House Press 84, law, third reading, employment - on Wednesday 14. 5th as the 3rd point of the morning. It is also to comply with the request of the representative of the capital city of Prague and to exclude point 28 of the approved programme, it is the House press 115, the law, first reading, regulation of prostitution, from the agenda of the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Further comply with the request of the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka and firmly include point 54 of the approved programme, House printing 72, law, third reading, food; point 55 of the approved programme, House printing 86, third reading law, State agricultural inspection law, and point 53 of the approved programme, House printing 70, third reading, copyright, Wednesday 14. 5. as the fourth, fifth and sixth points of the morning. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to include point 51 firmly, House press 170, the Treaty, on Wednesday 14. 5:00 p.m. at 2:30 p.m., and Thursday at 15. 5. from 11 o'clock to place firmly all remaining unnegotiated points from the contract block and from the report block. That's all on my side. Before we go any further, I'm gonna ask you to calm down. [[After a while of waiting.]] Thank you. I propose to vote on proposals from the Gremium as a whole, if there is no objection. There is an objection from the chairman of the club ANO, Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would propose to vote individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u3	Very well. I ask whether there are objections to the vote of the Gremia recommendation individually. Is there an objection? Isn't it? We can therefore vote individually if we agree to this. [[No reaction.]] Excellent. I want to ask if anyone else wants to comment on the show. Mr Mihola's Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a request for the Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman, who is excused for this week on a business trip abroad. He hereby asks you to remove item 34, which is House press number 74, from the agenda of the 8th meeting. This is specifically a second reading of the Beijing Treaty on the Protection of Artistic Performances in Audiovision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u5	I'm sorry, I didn't hear it in the noise. Can you repeat, please? And I'm gonna ask my colleagues to really stay calm. [[Talks Strongly]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u6	This is item 34, House press number 74, from the agenda of today's meeting. This is a second reading of the Beijing Treaty on the Protection of Artistic Performances in Audiovision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u7	Yes, thank you. The President of the club ANO, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, also applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u8	Have a good afternoon again. I would like to ask for a fixed classification of points from the Law block - third reading, namely point 56, print 108, as the third point on Wednesday 14. 5, item 59, print 73, as the fourth point on Wednesday 14. 5. and with the knowledge of the request of Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka to include those laws concerning food and food inspection, these points 54 and 55 as the fifth and sixth points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u9	Thank you. I'm still wondering if anyone's checking in. It's not like that. I now have written proposals to amend the approved programme, namely Mr Marek Ženíšek, and it is the inclusion of a new item Information of the Government on its position on the North Atlantic Alliance's plans to strengthen military presence in the Member States. And then it is a proposal to amend Mr Pavel Blažek's approved programme and it is the Prime Minister's opinion on the statements of the Minister of Defence and the Czechoslovak-Soviet actor Martin Stropnický. Reclassify this item. I will ask Mr Blažek to read his proposal, and I will also ask Mr Ženíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u10	Hello, thank you for your word. It is a custom here that the opposition is a little confused by the statements made by the various ministers, so it is sometimes left to ask the Prime Minister to comment on certain statements. I designed that point today - and I'm saying it now for the ODS club - that some of the Minister of Defence's statements stopped us. I will read the basic: NATO soldiers in the Czech Republic would remind us of 1968. And then another report related to this, that we are the only NATO state that has said directly that we are certainly against the US military being present. Let me begin by saying that it is not the point of what I am going to say here to discuss whether or not the US Army is here, but the point is whether the Czech Minister is to be the only one who has said directly that he has not, without any consultation with both the government and with us. And the other thing is an outrageous comparison of the occupying Brezhnev troops with the American army of the present. It may have surprised someone that Martin Stropnický said it, but not me. Martin Stropnický sometimes confuses his life roles, he's got a lot on his mind. I was about 16 years old when we were required to attend a soviet promotional film called the Fight for Moscow - so that Mr. Martin Stropnický, the Battle for Moscow, would also understand me. In this film the current Minister of Defence played the role of Lieutenant Red Army, which would not be quite interesting yet, it may happen, but the important thing is that it was not an ordinary film. This was a film that was - and now I quote from the documents they are giving on TV today - a gift from the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union to the Soviet people. I put aside the question that not every actor was willing to play under the previous regime in Soviet films, but the important thing is that it was a gift to the Soviet people. The Soviet people, please, at the time of the film, were occupied by Lotyš, Estonec, Polák and the Ukrajinec, which today is about, and Mr Martin Stropnickýý played a Soviet lieutenant there, who protects so-called. the cursor line then, or - to explain it - the demarking line created on the basis of the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact. Well, can you be surprised today that Lieutenant Red Army doesn't want the U.S. Army here? Not me, of course, but the problem is whether such a person should be Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic. I think they're looking for the Secretary of Defense in Donetsk today. I read in the paper today that they want to declare war on Kiev, and I don't know who, and maybe they don't have a lieutenant, maybe they'd take him there. Maybe the minister still has a uniform from the shoot, he wouldn't even have to change the stars, and he would fit in perfectly beautifully with the script. And I would ask the Prime Minister very much to comment on this statement, which I consider, in fact, specifically from Lieutenant Martin Stropnickýý's Red Army, to be hypocritical, but actually a little bit of Chewy. We can't be in some alliance, picking out what we can use and what's not right for us. And hopefully I will say in conclusion - he really is quite close to our borders at risk of war, and if the Minister of Defence imagines that we will refuse foreign help and defend ourselves, he already has the uniform and he saw the tank during the filming, that's positive when he filmed the film, but we can't treat the allies like that if we consider them allies. And if a member of the Communist Party had said that, for example, they had a fair run for not being satisfied with the fact that we are in NATO, and I completely understand their statements that today they do not want, perhaps, an American army in our territory. It's actually legitimate, and they got the votes. But Mr. Stropnický is playing a comedy here, and he should understand that he is not an actor at the Department of Defense, but a representative of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm asking you... I'm still asking you, Mr Blažek, when do you wish to place this point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u12	Since I suspect the success of my proposal, I'll say Wednesday afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u13	Wednesday afternoon after fixed points? [[Yes.]] And now I ask Mr Ženíšek to read his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, although I believe that I should have explained my proposal under the Rules of Procedure before my colleague Blažek, but at the moment it does not matter, even though I was the first to make the proposal. But it's about the very thing, not who's putting it first. Allow me, on behalf of the TOP 09 and the starosta, to propose a whole new point, as you have read, entitled Information of the Government on its position on the North Atlantic Alliance's plans to strengthen military presence in the Member States, on Wednesday afternoon. To include this point leads me to a completely incomprehensible statement, as has been said here, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý for Reuters, when he stated that the Czech Republic does not support the presence of NATO foreign soldiers in its territory. In addition to the fact that I consider this statement to be completely incompetent, it is quite dangerous, and besides the fact that the Minister probably does not realise that we are members of an alliance that bears the name NATO for the 15th year and, in addition to comparing our membership of NATO with membership of the Warsaw Pact, I would therefore like very much to have a proper debate on this issue or on this subject in the House of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now please contact the microphone with the priority right of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, please - and now I think it is not important whether this is a proposal that has been made by the ODS or the TOP 09 - so that this really is not seen as an opposition obstruction, but as an effort to unite the position of the Czech Republic in foreign policy, which is the position of government, the House, the President. And we would very much like to make sure, and we think that not only do we have the right to do so, but that the Czech public has the right to do so, whether the opinion of the Minister of Defence, spoken with such absolute certainty, is simply not in the interests of the Czech Republic and that the Czech Republic does not want the forces of the North Atlantic Alliance, of which we are a member, therefore our transnational forces, to be placed on the territory of the Czech Republic, whether this opinion was the opinion of the Minister of Defence or the opinion of the entire government. I think that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should have the right to know this, and the moment we know whether it was the Minister of Defence's opinion, or the opinion of the entire government, so that we, the Chamber of Deputies, as the institution that the government is responsible for, from which it draws its legitimacy and from which, after all, it has its mandate. [[14.20 hours]] I think it's our duty to know that. I think the Czech public doesn't deserve us to break up into the machine guns, and somebody said, "And that's just what Stropnický said." And someone said, "No, that's not what Stropnický said, so Stropnickýý said because the whole government really thinks so, or what the Chamber of Deputies thinks. This is serious business. Many of us, I'm not saying that all of us, many of us are really concerned about what's going on east of our borders. Many of us are really concerned about Russia's imperial ambitions, imperial ambitions to regain our territories and their influence as far as possible. It'll go all the way where we let him. Back in the day, the limits of that influence were up to Sumava. I don't really want to allow us to go back to this state, but maybe somebody wants to. This may also be related to the location of the troops of the North Atlantic Alliance in the territory of the Czech Republic. Minister Stropnický would have told us that he meant this parallel unhappyly. That he didn't want to compare it to the occupation forces of the Soviet Union and its satellites. And I think the parallel is there after all. I think that those who celebrated and were happy when the Soviet army's occupation forces left the Czech Republic in 1990 would, paradoxically, be okay with the placement of NATO forces in our territory. And those who nostalgically remember those beautiful times when the Soviet army was here, how they didn't have to talk and could work, as no one had to abstain from parliamentary discussions, comrade secretary decided it and could work. Those who nostalgically remember these times are incredibly dangerous for them, on the contrary, the idea of placing the troops of the North Atlantic Alliance in the territory of the Czech Republic. So I think the connotations are right here. And that by debating whether Minister Stropnický spoke for himself, for the government, or for Miss YES, or for whom he actually spoke when, from our point of view, he uttered an outrageous sentence in public space, and in international public space, because everyone noticed that we should make this clear to ourselves as a constitutional institution that the government is responsible for. And that maybe we should come to some final opinion about what we actually think about it. We, the Czech Republic, because if we say Czech Republic, it can't be me, Martin Stropnický, it can't be Miss YES or it can't be ODS or TOP 09, but it can already be the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic as a representative, as we say in a constitutional oath, as a representative of all the people, can say its opinion. And we believe that, given what the Minister of Defence has done, it is our duty to have the Chamber of Deputies say so. What he says is her holy right and right of this majority. But it is not possible for us to go through this without any discussion and, above all, to go through it without the conclusion and clear view that we will tell the European and world public what the Czech Republic really thinks about it. Because in that global media world, the international public now thinks that the Czech Republic is thinking what Minister Stropnický said. But what Minister Stropnický said cannot be declared the opinion of the Czech Republic. The opinion of the Chamber of Deputies could be declared such an opinion. That is why I am very much intercede, without in any way presuming the outcome of this debate, in order to include this item at the meeting, whether on the basis of Mr Blažek's proposal or Mr Ženíšek's proposal. Above all, in order to conclude what the Czech Republic thinks, because if we do not, I will fear not only that this House does not want to think anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u17	Thank you. Now please, with priority rights to the microphone of Minister Bělobrádek, then the President of the ODS Club, Mr Stanjuru and then Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u18	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a minister, I am the only member of the government who is not appointed by the Minister as President of the Republic. I am merely Vice-President of the Government. I will therefore take the liberty, for one reason, that I will be excused from tomorrow afternoon on account of a foreign trip, as Vice-President of the Government, to respond to the previous speaker. The words spoken by Minister Stropnický are certainly not the words of the entire government. We were a little surprised by those words. Although, according to my data at the press conference today, Minister Stropnickýý said that this is inaccurate information given by Reuters and the question was put on the permanent placement of NATO troops in our territory, there is no difference at all to me. Whether these troops will be stationed temporarily or permanently, even for the reason that President Kalousek said, and therefore our army is part of NATO. I believe that such things, if said, and very intensely perceived by our foreign partners, should indeed be pre-negotiated with the government. They should be pre-negotiated and explained on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies because, if I am not mistaken, the House of Deputies is declaring war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u19	Thank you. And please get to the microphone of Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club, Mr. Stanjure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u20	Thank you for the floor. I think that the land of the Czech Parliament is exactly the land where we are to debate fundamental foreign policy issues. In recent weeks, Mr Rasmussen, the current head of NATO, visited the Czech Republic. He met with leading representatives of the Czech Republic who publicly said, whether the President or the Prime Minister or the Minister of Defence or other ministers, that we need to increase defense spending and that we are a solid part of the North Atlantic Alliance. But in politics, one thing is words and the other is when it comes to voting. It is a few weeks ago when we voted on the proposal of the Government Member, Mr Gabal, who just wanted to recommend to the government that defense spending be increased. Take a look at the stint that clubs and MEPs supported and opposed. Those who talk most about the need to increase did not support this particular proposal. But I would rather discuss the logic of comparing the occupying army of communist states and armies of the North Atlantic Alliance. Are we or are we not members of NATO? NATO armies are our troops, or aren't they our troops? We just have to choose. He can't pay both. To say we don't want foreign troops here, and to mean NATO troops. But we're members, and the Secretary of Defense should know that. I would consider the debate to be very useful, especially a conclusion. And if a government majority decides we don't want to be a part of it, we'll protest, but it's legitimate. Now we have been celebrating ten years since we joined the European Union, and I think it is much more important for the security of our citizens to remember 15 years since the Czech Republic joined NATO. This was the key moment that contributed to the greater security of our citizens. As I am sure you have noted the opinion of the President of the Republic that we should do everything possible to make him a member of NATO's highest management structures in 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u21	Yes, I'd be happy to oblige. I ask that we remain calm to hear from Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u22	Thank you. It's really canceling. I'm trying not to do this to other speakers, so please understand that this is bothering me. Do you really think Martin Stropnický's statements contribute to increasing the chances of any candidate from the Czech Republic getting into NATO's high management structures, or that they are decreasing? It clearly damages these statements and reduces our candidate's chances in a fundamental way to get into the management structures. Who among the allies would be in favour of the person recommended by Martin Stropnický getting into office when he says they're foreign troops and that we don't want them here? The debate, whether it was meant to be stable or unstable, I must agree with Mr. Vice Prime Minister, is completely useless. Either we belong there, to the Alliance, to the West, or we don't belong there. We as ODS are happy to belong there, and we will defend the presence of the Czech Republic to this civilization and to this security space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u23	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. [[Member Jandak from the O.R.: I don't get the floor?]] I will only answer Mr Jandák. Since this is not a classic debate, they only have the right to priority rights, except if you want to make a motion to change the program, which you can't at this time anyway, because it's 14.31 o'clock. [[Member Jandak from the O.R.: You held me up for a minute.]] I wasn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u24	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to see a point put forward in order for the point itself to have a little constitutional convention. What my colleague Blažek has put forward here does not have such a convention. But I would not have been able to speak to that point at all, I would have expressed my opinion by voting if Mr Miroslav Kalousek had not appeared. Yes, I am in favour of such a debate, which will concern the permanent deployment, not the temporary deployment, of the armies of foreign armies, albeit the armies of the Alliance. Because this isn't just about the government knowing what the Chamber of Deputies is thinking. Of course, this is about what the citizens of the Czech Republic think. I am quite frankly asking, ladies and gentlemen, whether any of the political parties who ran for the Chamber of Deputies in 2010 in their political programme for joining this Chamber of Deputies had an indication that this political party insisted on the permanent deployment of foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. I may have studied this wrong, but there is no such political party as to enter the Chamber of Deputies with this program. That's one thing. So, yes, let us discuss some things, including the government knowing what the majority of the Chamber of Deputies think. However, in order to find out what the citizens of the Czech Republic think, I suggest that any move that would concern this should be subject to a general referendum on this matter so that citizens can express themselves if they want a foreign soldier's foot here. I remember the debate when the ODS government was with the Green Party, when it was called the Green Party. American radar. The Chamber of Deputies, despite not more than 70 percent of the citizens, voted here, under very strange circumstances, on whether or not we approve the treaty between the Czech Republic and the United States of America. This contract has been discussed and approved here. Only the United States of America, following the discovery that more than 70 percent of the population of the Czech Republic did not want, hide and implement the treaty itself. So if we want to discuss this, and I do not resist the debate, I find it a little awkward to discuss it at this meeting, but certainly most will decide, so I think that only the words of Minister Stropnický cannot be the subject of such a discussion, but it must be a debate on how we will ask citizens. If, for example. by discussing this after the elections, and each political party will go to the elections with such a political agenda that it wants foreign troops here, or if you will admit, dear colleagues and colleagues, a referendum on such a matter. Now, about what Mr. Stanjura said here. You see, I am not convinced that this statement damages the interests of the Czech Republic. I think that the most damaging of the interests of the Czech Republic, including entering NATO command structures, was how defence was managed in the Czech Republic, how many corruption scandals were followed by the Ministry of Defence, how we had to deal with the Supreme Audit Office's report on how it was built, virtually. did not build, a facility for nurses in the Central Military Hospital, what he did, virtually. I couldn't, Mr. Alexandr Vondra as Secretary of Defense. Do you want to repeat the horror here? I believe that this has most damaged the interests of the Czech Republic both in the Alliance and in the eyes of other partners. Because what do they blame us for? We don't blame the opinion of the minister or the minister or the politician. They blame us for the fact that the Ministry of Defence has become a black hole in money, in which money was lost, which was to be issued in defence of the Czech Republic, or for involvement in alliance forces. And you want to flatten this place for one statement? Aren't you ashamed? For the embarrassment you've shown in tens of millions of crowns? They're not enough pandurs, they're not enough parachutes and dead on the parachute? It is not enough how we acted on different redislocations, reorganisations, and how much money and defense it cost, how badly secured? Let's have the debate, let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u25	I would like to thank the Vice-President and now, with Mr Faltýnek's priority right, then Mr Kalousek, then Mr Stanjura and then Mr Fiala and then Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u26	I'm so sorry. I spoke to Martin Stropnický before we went to our press conference. We are discussing without him here, which is, of course, his fault that he is not here, we are discussing the statement that was made in the media. None of us, not even Chairman Kalousek, stood there. So I would wait for Martin Stropnický to explain this matter, just like he did at a press conference, the moment he's present at this meeting, and let's go to a normal program. It's too much to ask for our club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u27	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u28	Thank you for the floor. If I were to proceed quite rigorously, I would have to propose to the Chamber of Deputies that we interrupt negotiations until the Minister of Defence can come, if necessary. Take a break until the Secretary of Defense can visit us. But of course I won't do anything like that. The problem is that we are not only discussing this statement here in the Chamber of Deputies. If that were the case, maybe we're not so concerned. But Reuters brought the statement, and logically, all our NATO allies noticed it, and logically, I hope it wasn't the intention of Minister Stropnickýý and all our allies. [[14.40 hours]] And now, on the basis of this statement, because the statement of the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic is not just a plk, it is simply a statement, and when the Minister of Government of the Czech Republic says that the Czech Republic, so abroad, where they may not be wasting some of the terms as strongly as here, take the information seriously, as if what the Czech Republic thinks or does not think, they have simply taken it into account. And if the Minister is not here to say, "I didn't mean it, I just said it," it is in any case the duty of the Chamber of Deputies to actually say what the Czech Republic thinks about this subject. This can be said by the government as a whole, it does not, and it can, of course, be said by the Chamber of Deputies as an institution constitutionally superior to which the government is accountable. That is why I believe that this discussion is so important and that we must not waste time and that we still have to tell the international public, those allies and those allies what the opinion of the Czech Republic is, therefore, that even President Faltýnek is not sure how it is when his minister said it. We should be able to unite in this discussion and say what we think as the Czech Republic. Just please allow me to try to answer the President of the KSČM Filip to his speech, which I have provoked him to, as I said myself, and to say how much difference there is in the location of NATO troops - temporary or permanent. Do not be angry, Mr President, but my generation is essentially the same with you, with your generation, because we remember that the term "temporary" has a time equivalent of 22 years in this geopolitical space, which is quite a lot, and if it were you, it would take much longer. I really do not think it was a Communist party that accelerated the departure of Soviet troops temporarily located in the territory of the Czech Republic. They were Soviet troops, please. Even the Communist Federal Assembly then voted on the location of Soviet troops, not Warsaw Treaty troops. Maybe here we could find a parallel to that American radar. That's the difference. Here the public, or part of the public, expressed great dislike to have a military unit of the U.S. military stationed here, an army of allied, but armies of foreign power. Whereas here we are talking exclusively about NATO troops, the armies of the international treaty, which we are participating in, in a way within the international standard and our armed forces. Of course, there's one thing in common. I dare say. Those who had hives from being here by American radar and American soldier are the same ones who have hives from having NATO troops here, because one and the other significantly complicates the potential for a Russian soldier's foot to enter here, a situation that some of us probably still desperately yearn for because they remember how beautiful it is when the leg was here. You asked, Mr President of the KSČM through Madam President, which party had in its programme the placement of NATO troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. I don't think so. I read all those programs, but the vast majority of the political entities represented in this House had the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic, because at the moment we formulated those programs, none of us could imagine that a year after the elections took place - not even a year after the elections took place in the Czech Republic, perhaps on the basis of these programs, the bear in the East would sharpen its claw, pluck its tooth and go. We really didn't know that in spring 2010. And if a bear in the East sharpened his claw, valued his tooth and goes, then we need to be able to respond in a relevant way. In an appropriate way, so that we can be sure of our sovereignty and not be afraid of something that may be temporary and will take 22 years. I'm too old for that, I wouldn't live to see it. And I think that this discussion within this programme, within the framework of the discussion on the programme, can no longer give enough room for us to express ourselves. So let us approve this point and let us formulate a resolution to which the majority will be able to lean. Ladies and gentlemen, if, after that statement by Minister Stropnický, or to be completely correct with President Faltýnek, if, after the Reuters agency has published a statement by Minister Stropnickýý and everyone has recorded it in the international public, if, after that same day, we as Chamber of Deputies cannot take a clear position on what we believe about the possible location of NATO troops in the territory of the Czech Republic, we are impotent and incompetent. I don't think we should give that kind of signal. That is why I beg you very much, and that is probably the only sentence where I agree with President Filip, who said: let us discuss this, let us really put that point in order, let us discuss it and adopt a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u29	I thank you and now please give priority to the microphone of the chairman of the ODS club of Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u30	I'll only have three short notes left. President Filip should rewrite his speeches because there have been still some parliamentary elections in the House since 2010. These were in 2013. If that's where we should study the programs and not go back to the election before last. Now to the Vice-President, and I hope President Faltýnek doesn't accuse me of not being able to treat women. I think gender balance is when we have the same demands on management meetings, whether it's a man or a woman. Madam Vice-President, I don't know which way to address you now. Your statement that a new point cannot be proposed at 14.31 simply is not true and does not correspond to the Rules of Procedure and the resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. I'll explain why. If that were the case, and you were right, then a speaker who likes to listen, for example, I can think of the Foreign Minister when he doesn't have that much time in this parliamentary term, he'll come at 2:00, and with a prerogative of 31 minutes he'll be telling us, he's using this "you know, you know, don't you?" and then we will say 14.31 and announce that proposals for the programme cannot be accepted. That's why the 30 minutes are there if the debate on the draft agenda ends, like 14-10, and I'd like to come in at 14.31 and suggest it. I can't do that anymore, but I still can at 14.25. I think it's gender-balanced and we're supposed to have the same claims on everyone. It's nothing personal. Only the statement wasn't true. And to President Faltýnek, I now know by which means - yours, Madam Vice-President. That's such an amazing sentence. Let's get to the normal stuff. To a normal program. I know you don't like it, that it was your minister, but the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic should be a normal thing. And if you vote in favour of that point, the Minister will have the opportunity to explain that statement, perhaps to set it straight, and perhaps we will find a joint resolution for which we will all vote, probably with the exception of the Communists. Their view of the Czech Republic's membership in NATO is well-known and I do not want to waste any time convincing them. I wouldn't convince them anyway. But I'd like to ask no one to personalize the law and say this is normal, because it's been suggested by the government, or by my colleague in the coalition, and this is such an unnecessary point that you're just stalling that pretty greased machine, because we've already had ten contracts to discuss. But those contracts are about international policy that we are supposed to discuss today, and the key attribute of the international policy of the Czech Republic should be whether we want to be a full member of NATO or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u31	The President of the ODS, President Petr Fiala, is also the President of the ODS. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not know what is more important here than the security of the Czech Republic. But I agree with the President of the Faltýnek Club that Minister Stropnický, who has come between us in the meantime, should be able to explain his remarks, and I therefore expect you to vote accordingly in favour of the inclusion of our proposal made by Mr Blažek. [[14.50 hours]] However, I would like to touch on the questions raised here by Vice-President of the House, President of the KSČM colleague Filip, and I would like to answer some questions. For example, he asked whether there was a party that told citizens in 2010 that it was in favour of NATO troops. That's the side. It's the Civil Democratic Party. We were openly in favour of building American radar here, and that carries with it. We have kept nothing from citizens about this, and we have had this attitude and we continue to have it. But speaking of what we said, what any of us said in 2010 or 2013, we should not forget that in the meantime, the international political situation and the security situation of the Czech Republic have changed very significantly. I don't know if you don't want to see it, you're not able to see it, or you're just afraid to see it, but we're in a situation that's many times more dangerous than the year, two, three, five years ago. What is happening in Ukraine is what happened in Crimea very much resembles the events of the mid-fifties of the 19th century when the Crimean war was also the Crimean war and when this Crimean war did not mean the battle for Crimea, but it meant the breakage of the European order that arose in Europe after the 1815 Vienna Congress. And whoever doesn't see it is either ignorant or blind or hiding something from our citizens. We are in a situation that is extremely threatening us, and in this situation it is extremely important for us to ensure the security of the Czech Republic as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no other recipe in a post-war Europe for a democratic country and no other way to ensure the security of the Republic than close cooperation within NATO than cooperation with the United States. And, as we know well from the history of post-war Europe, sometimes the presence of NATO troops on national territory also means. I don't know what's so weird about it, I don't know what's dangerous about it. On the contrary, I see a guarantee of our security, and we should all be glad that there are some countries that are ready to send their troops to protect another country. If we are to enjoy such privilege, we should only welcome it, not reject it with the mouth of the Minister of Defence before such a debate can take place in the Czech Republic at all. So I, for these reasons too, strongly support what President Faltýnek said so that the Minister of Defence can explain this, but not just the Minister of Defence. Let the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic also openly stand up to this. And we can do that by supporting the proposal for a point made by my colleague Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u33	Thank you and to the microphone please Mr. Vice-President of the House of Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to address Vice-President Filip in my contribution to you, because it has been said here who and how they have damaged the interests of the Czech Republic. [[Madam President]] And here I am saying that the most interests of the Czech Republic have been damaged by 40 years of communism with everything that has been going on. . [[Applause from the right, disapproval of Members of the KSČM]] That's right. And instead of hearing an apology for the '50s, an invitation letter from the '68s and the subsequent '70s marasm, we're being blamed for how and how we behave. We can argue to what extent the Minister's statement was happy or not. I am prepared to do this, and I will support the proposal to include this point. Anyway, the Russian troops were here, we had rockets here, and we all had to look happy at the time. And I fundamentally reject that idea. I think that today, if Ukraine were part of NATO, a lot of things didn't happen. And I think that the Baltic countries are very happy to be part of NATO, because just as they and we are protected by this alliance. I am glad that we are a member of NATO because this means that we are part of a democratic world that wants to protect these values. Because if you transfer it, maybe if there were more of us who would write celebratory letters to North Korea, maybe we would understand this mentality more. But it won't be me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u35	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with Mr. Stropnický prior rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been duly excused for urgent duties for this afternoon, but the situation may not stand a delay, so allow me to comment on what I have heard mediatedly from this House today. We work here with the manipulation and demagogy of some part of our media world. It's a shame, because I think it gives such procedures a kind of legitimacy or right to live their own lives. The interview for Reuters took place so that, among many other questions, I was asked how I look at the possible permanent - permanent - stay of alliance units in our territory. [[Stresses]] And I have answered this roughly, and I quote myself now that a permanent stay of units is a problem for a certain minor part of our population for certain historical reasons, or let's say a sensitive matter. That's all. That then the author put it into the title, at least I believe, and that it sounded that the Czech Republic would not accept alliance units on its territory, that is really, but it is not my fault. That the majority of the media will take over in this form and only some will print what is lower, that is, the specific and relatively clear and separate sentence, which does not deal with any current solution to the security situation, but some historical, let's say sociological, reminiscence, there was no trace of it anywhere. It's probably symptomatic that even the editors won't give it to their journalists. I don't think it's worth worrying about. Unless, of course, this brings up some fundamental debate, some fundamental questioning. I was in recent days, about a week ago, at the invitation of my colleague Chucko Hagel in the United States, and I visited a number of political leaders there. And the intention was quite clear - that the path in that direction should make our interest in transatlantic bond known and stress the importance that we attach to the presence of the United States in the entire security area in which we find ourselves. It is precisely because US foreign policy accents have been, say, slightly different in recent years and not entirely beneficial for our situation. I met there, as I say, with a number of people, Rice Susan, who is an advisor to foreign affairs and defence affairs of President Obama, and it is not easy to get to it, with Senator McCainem and a number of others, and I have been travelling for America's presence in Europe, and I have also stressed our readiness to accept our share of responsibility for the security situation in our entire area. [[15.00 hours]] Moreover, I have said how there is also talk here in the Chamber of Deputies about the need to change the trend in the budgeting of our defence. And I was talking about my efforts to achieve some sort of correction in this, which wouldn't question the readiness of our army. I think that even within that million people who are engaged in defence, my attitudes are quite well known, and therefore I am obviously one of the proponents, or strong supporters, of the transatlantic bond. Therefore, I cannot perceive the whole matter as manipulation in order not to benefit me. [[Don't mind?]] Unfortunately, we work with virtual reality afterwards. We are giving her some strange legitimacy with our debate, and I do not think that it is entirely right, however I understand that some of you may have felt an urgent obligation to make this clear and clear. But believe me, even from a series of statements made by any one of you who gets caught in the headlines, he may be a little confused, but if he counts to five, ten or twenty, he's gonna get his head straight and think about it - it's probably gonna be half-, quarter- or eighth- true again. So at least I partially answered. I don't know the details of the debate, of course, but for me, it's absolutely clear. If the situation so requires, the Czech Republic will, of course, fulfil its alliance obligations exactly as it has undertaken. She's ready for that, no one, as far as I know, at least at that executive level and the military level, is questioning that. So in that sense, I'd like my reaction to come out perfectly clear. At the same time, I admitted that in this country in a particular generation, people are sensitive to any, albeit completely incomparable, permanent stay of troops, it is simply a fact that by saying that they do not exist, we will not change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u37	Thank you and please to the microphone with the priority right of Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u38	Thank you for the floor. Let me through Mrs... Actually, I don't have to, I can do that directly. So thank you, Minister, for coming, for saying your position. I don't think it's a pseudo-discussion. Because whether it's a media shift or not - of course, I have no reason not to believe that it's a media shift - it's not a pseudodisc because the statement was presented. This statement was not only recorded by the Czech public but also by the international public. And many of us consider it extremely important that the statement, whether or not there was a shift, should be brought to the right place and it was said whether or not what was published is the opinion of the Czech Republic. Probably what worried many of us is that, as the opinion of the Czech Republic, your statement was presented that the Czech Republic does not support the presence of NATO foreign soldiers on its territory. That's what the wording sounds like. Many of us don't think so, many of us would very much like to support it, many of us are very concerned that the Minister of Defence can say this without any discussion. And you say you didn't say that. Many of us have so much experience with the media shift that there's no reason not to trust you. That's why I don't think the point might be long at all. Therefore, I very much ask that we put him on the agenda so that you, Minister, can say: I did not say this, the Reuters agency has moved me forward, and I propose to you, the Chamber of Deputies, a motion for a resolution on which most of us certainly agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u39	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with Mr Stanjura's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u40	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if the Minister was excused for medical reasons today. It's possible. If it was for medical reasons. Because he was so misinterpreted that I didn't understand him exactly. As far as I understand it, he said, "I wasn't indulging in the presence of American soldiers in Europe." But from the context of sentences, it seemed to me that there was a word floating in it. So I'd really like to ask if it's not from a medical indisposition to talk and make it quite clear, because then the debate can go somewhere else. I must say with full seriousness that it is clear from public sources that Reuters does not yet own Andrej Babiš, and therefore he is viciously shifting the statements of the ANO politicians and is trying to harm them. That's what I learned from the Minister. However, we were based on articles and quotes from the Minister, who are in the Mladá fronta TODAY. And so maybe you can complain to the owner, get him to clean up when they're moving you somewhere, what you didn't say. However, you ended your performance by saying such an obvious thing. You said it so dramatically as if you were in some way politically asserting it: When it is needed, or when it is worst, we are ready to fulfill our commitments. Well, that's not a very helpful sentence for our allies. But the key issue that we are debating today, which we want to debate - and because this item is not yet included, so only a limited number of Members can participate in the debate, and I would like us to open the debate to all Members who want to comment on it - is something else. It's not our obligation to have a NATO base here, permanent or temporary. That's either our opinion, our wish, our readiness, or it's not. Nowhere in the basic agreement is that we have a duty, and when it gets worse, we are ready to do it. We have learned that you have reached important people in the United States that are difficult to reach. So congratulations. Let's be glad our ministers can get to important people, and I don't mean that ironically, I mean that. But what's the output? The bottom line is we're debating your statement today that we don't want foreign troops here. And I would also warn against the generalization that you used, Minister, and you said: There are generations that have experienced 68 and are sensitive to any army. That's just not true! I know many people who were adults in 1968 who were sensitive to the presence of Russian and communist troops. That's right. But it is these people who are not sensitive to the presence of allied troops. So tell them that the generations of those who have welcomed or not welcomed but then agreed to join the troops with the standardization interviews are bothered. I understand that, because it's convenient for them to say - we're against everyone. And then just a little comment on the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the KDU through the Vice-President. I totally agree with what you said. Even the one who most harmed the Czech Republic. But look how many former communists sit in the government you're part of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u41	Thank you, and now, please, to the speaker's stand with the priority right of Minister Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u42	Madam President, honourable Members, I will also speak out in order not to be the subject of criticism that I am not articulating loud and clear enough. My point is limited to two points. One. I have experienced media shifts on my own, and I know very well how the opposition can masterfully use any statement that is out of context or not entirely accurate. I think that what we have heard from the Minister of Defence, his commentary, is an absolutely sufficient explanation that convincingly puts his statement in the context of meaning and personally satisfies me. I think a number of Members here too. After all, do we have a more democratic instrument than a vote to show our will, whether we want to place a point or not? So that's the first point. [[15.10 hours]] And the second point is why I will personally vote against the inclusion of a point. Firstly, I am deeply concerned that any point, regardless of what it is called, as once again masterfully opposed at the last meeting, or in the last part of our 8th meeting, can be used for the content of completely different things and discussion of issues that were not announced, which were marked in a different way. We're just, let's just say, defensive because we don't control these techniques and practices. We are too decent, correct, polite, speaking in a quieter voice than in a louder voice, and we are trying to fulfill our mandate as best we can. If we were to vote on this point, I am afraid that it would be used to the maximum extent possible and that it would not fulfil the purpose for which it would be included. That's why I recommend turning him down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u43	Thank you. Please see the speaker's counter with the priority right of Mr Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Just a little reflection. I think that we are not at odds with Minister Válková in that we like to trust Minister Stropnický, that there has been a rather gross misinterpretation of the words he said and that it has been published in the media in a different way than he said and thought. Each of us can boast of a long range of these experiences. I'm the last person who wouldn't believe him. But all the more reason for the real position of the Czech Republic to be heard. That thing happened, and I'm happy to believe that without the blame of Minister Stropnický, that the journalist has irresponsibly knocked it down, shifted it, the editor has highlighted it even more in the headline to get more ratings, we all know that. However, both domestic and international public are unfortunately confronted not with what the Minister has actually said and what he thought, but with what Reuters wrote. The information's just out there. And all the more reason, because it is shaky information, so that the Chamber of Deputies, with the help of the Minister, can set this information straight, because we will not deinterpret it, so that we here quite openly and transparently accept the real opinion of the Czech Republic on the possible location of NATO troops in our territory. In the second part, I differ fundamentally with Minister Válková. I'll say it in a very quiet voice. Madam Secretary, the fact that Parliament's discussions do not suit you, that you have even been trained to do so last week, you have already told us this, but this cannot be enough for the Chamber of Deputies to resign from the parliamentary debate because we have been elected here. And I ask you very much in this free and transparent discussion to reach the opinion of the Czech Republic, to which we are entitled, on the question that is resonating here, because the Minister was irresponsible to move Reuters in his opinions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u45	Thank you. With priority, please go to Mr Stanjura's speaker's counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u46	I would simply recall the title of a point that we will be voting on in a moment, that is, the Prime Minister's opinion on the statement by the Minister of Defence and the Czechoslovak-Soviet actor, so that we do not forget. And I believe that the vote will not show that touching consensus, and I hope that none of the Members will want an interpreter between the Da movement, the Ya movement and the YES movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u47	With priority, please go to Mr Kalousek's counter. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u48	Thank you. If the wording "Prime Minister's Stanovisko" does not suit anyone, for the Prime Minister does not have to be present at that time, the name not very distant, which was presented by Mr Ženíšek, is called "Information of the Government..." And since the government is present in sufficient numbers, I think any of its responsible members can submit this information. But that's not essential. And we all get it after this discussion. This is essential if we can, as the Chamber of Deputies, adopt a majority resolution on this exceptionally sensitive issue. That is what we should be, and I am deeply convinced that, following the media manipulation of Reuters, because I have no reason not to trust the Minister, it is our duty to inform the Czech and international public about the real position of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u49	Thank you. Anyone else want to comment on the program? It's not like that. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on individual proposals. There's still an application with priority rights. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u50	I apologise for the late response, but I would like to veto, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES, the inclusion of these two points, both of Mr Blažek and of Mr Ženíšek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u51	Thank you. Noted. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek, then Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u52	Thank you for the floor. Allow the brief opinion of TOP 09. We fully respect, President Faltýnek and President Sklenák, the position of your clubs. In that case, however, allow us to feel deeply distrusted about the explanation of the Minister of Defence that we wanted to trust. We wished we could trust him. But since you do not want to accept what would be offered as an entirely automatic solution, just some journalists have maliciously or unqualifiedly shifted your minister's well-meaning words, we will explain it here and adopt a resolution for which we will all be all of us, so let me tell you that we do not trust you or your minister. We suspect you of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u53	I ask for a microphone with Mr Stanjura's priority right, then Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u54	So the minister always plays the brave CSIs, and his colleagues don't have the courage to debate it. I fully respect that. It's said that I object and not veto, but let's not be so formalistic, I say that to a man, so gender-balanced. Next time you complain that the opposition is using their rights, start with you. Unlike you, we do not complain, we fully respect it, but at this point I would like to ask for a break within 17 hours, which means forty-three minutes for one hour to discuss further progress within the ODS Club. As a matter of fact, it's until 17.15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u55	Okay. I'm interrupting the meeting until 17.15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u56	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It's 5:15, and we'll continue our discussion. It is stated in the tapestry that the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club was the next party to the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. After that, the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek are registered here in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u57	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Mr President. Allow me to give, on behalf of the two members of the Yes 2011 and the ČSSD, pursuant to § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, a procedural proposal for a vote on international treaties after 19 and 21 hours. At the same time, I propose that the House decide to vote on today's further possible interruption of the meeting at possible meetings of the House's Members' Clubs. Both proposals are procedural, and I therefore ask, Mr President, that you put these proposals to a vote without debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u58	I'm asking if we can vote on them as a whole, or do you want to know if the House agrees on whether we vote on them both at the same time, or if you want to vote on each individual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u59	I would recommend and ask that we vote separately on each proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u60	Okay. We will therefore vote first on the procedural proposal for today's House to continue after the 19th hour by voting on international treaties. I will launch a vote on this resolution, but before that, I will sign you all off. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on this proposal for the House to discuss international treaties after 19 o'clock today, as presented by the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 96. Registered 114 Members, for 74, against 21. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will consider the proposal that - if I am interpreting this correctly, please, Mr President, check me - every further procedural proposal to suspend the meeting of the House. [[Faltynek's member from the bench adds: - the meeting of the MP's club.]] At the meeting of the MP's club to vote on it. It's a procedural proposal. Please, there is an objection to this procedure. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u61	I object. This proposal is not voteable. To vote ahead of time, what happens, what the House will do, when something happens, is simply unvoting. I object to the fact that this proposal is unvoting. [[That's not true.]] Of course it's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u62	So there is an objection raised by the President of the ODS President Stanjury, and I will put this objection to the vote. I am opening the vote on the opposition of the President of the ODS Stanjury. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 97. Registered 128 Members, for 50, against 36. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the proposal from the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in, have them lift the button - push the button and raise the hand, sorry. You don't have to lift the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 98. Registered 129 MPs, for 37, versus 41. The motion was not accepted. We're going to have to take a vote on the procedure that's ready here. Let's start with the president's proposal. [[A Member of Kalousek comes from the bench: I had a procedural proposal, Mr President.]] Sorry. The procedural proposal by the Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote that has now taken place sees the TOP 09 and the starosta as a pretty serious precedent. But we don't want to deal with that. It is your decision and your conscience and your setting of parliamentary rules. What is really extremely serious from our point of view is your unwillingness to discuss the statement of the Minister of Defence and your unwillingness to discuss so as to reach a final resolution regarding our common view of the possible location of the troops of the North Atlantic Alliance in our territory. It is so shocking for us that I would like to ask for a 50-minute break at the meeting of the MP's club. Fifty minutes I think that this is the minimum possible time that the TOP 09 MEP needs to cope with the behaviour that has been demonstrated to us by both the plaintiff and Mr President. After 50 minutes, we're at your disposal. Vote on my proposal as you wish, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u64	Thank you. I take that as a procedural proposal that we will vote on - which we will not vote on because President Faltýnek's proposal failed. So I'm declaring a 50-minute break. That means I'll meet you here at 18 o'clock for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u65	Good evening, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. After the interruption, we come to the vote on the programme, as tabled by the amendments to the programme. Before I vote on the amendments to the programme, I will invite our colleagues from the lobby. I announce that today, from 19 to 20.30 pm, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes for personal reasons and Mr Radim has a replacement card number 9 ?) Rykala. Mrs Olga Havlová also apologizes between 18.15 and 23 hours for the hearing. Before we begin voting on the amendments to today's programme, we have proposals from the Gremium which the President of the ANO Faltýnek MEP has proposed to vote individually. So, first of all, we will vote on the request of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on the solid inclusion of point 60 of the approved programme, House Press 84, the Employment Act, on Wednesday 14. 5th as the third point in the morning. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 99, registered 136 Members and Members, for 80, against 36. The motion was accepted. Next, we will vote to comply with the request of the Prague City Representative to exclude item 28 of the approved agenda, House Press 115, Act on the regulation of prostitution from the 8th meeting. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of removing the prostitution bill from the approved agenda, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 100, registered 138 Members of Parliament, for 124, against 2. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, asks that we firmly include paragraph 54 of the approved agenda, the Food Act, and paragraph 55 of the approved agenda, the State Agricultural Inspection Act, and paragraph 53 of the approved programme, the Copyright Act, on Wednesday 14. 5. as the fourth, fifth and sixth points of the morning. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 101, registered 139 Members and Members, for 76, against 33. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to include point 51 firmly, House press 170, the Treaty, on Wednesday 14. 5:30 p.m. and Thursday 15. 5. from 11 o'clock to include firmly all remaining unnegotiated points from the Treaty block and from the Report block. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 102, registered 140 Members of Parliament, for 112, against 3. This proposal has also been adopted. Furthermore, proposals from the diaper. The President of the KDU-ČSL Group proposes that item 3 be excluded from the agenda. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 103 vote, 140 Members and Members, for 133, against none. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, Mr President of the ANO Member's Club, Mr Faltýnek proposes paragraphs 56, 59, 54 and 55 - sorry, Madam Vice-President, I will not read it after you - Wednesday afternoon after... [[Objection from the O.R.]] So points 56, 59 as the third and fourth points on Wednesday morning. I repeat again what we will be voting on. Mr Faltýnek proposes that we discuss paragraphs 56 and 59 on Wednesday morning as the third and fourth points. Is that correct, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. - I am sorry, I declare this vote misguided and give the floor to the President of the Citizen's Democratic Party. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u66	[[He's starting to talk off the mic:]] ... Mr President. We've just gotten something like point 4, 5, 6, and now we're voting again to include 4, 5, 6. So what we've decided is going to be point 4 is actually going to be point 6? Isn't it? I need to explain the vote, that didn't sound like it. Then I would ask, next time, that these proposals be placed in some logical choice, that we do not vote twice on the same thing as the original proposal was four points, we vote on two. Mr President has not told us why two and not four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u67	prosit, Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I was excused at the beginning of the meeting because I participated together with the President of the Senate and the Prime Minister of the Senate, and I did not follow the debate that fell here. Only now did I find out that the conclusions from the Gremal Council are voting at a point, so I'm asking myself why we're doing these meetings here. So either we all agree that's how it's gonna be. I admit the chairman of the Faltýnek Club wasn't there, but the Vice-President was there. So if it was the consensus of all the parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies that this will be the case, then I do not understand the vote after the points and I do not understand at all that there are now other points from the third reading against the conclusions of the consultation. So let's not do these meetings and let's leave it all to the vote, or let's keep the conclusions that we agreed this morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u69	For the MP's Club TOP 09 and the Mayors...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not quite sure that they have been presented here, so if the club presidents or fellow Members and Members then load these points here, we understand that they are counterproposals or other supplementary proposals, so that is really confusing, but that is probably related to the meeting in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u71	Thus, with priority right, first the President of the ODS, after him the President of the KSČM. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u72	I mean, I agree with the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I go to the G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G, then there's no point. However, he was the chairman of the Coalition MP's club, which proposed voting in part. We as the opposition, the helpfulness itself, supported it, there's no reason not to comply with anyone. But then it's really pointless... I know you don't go there, but that's okay. [[18.20 hours]] Then let's cancel. We save time, I can participate in, like, our club's meetings, or it can be at another hour, I understand that, because none of the people here really disputed that, neither the coalition nor the opposition. I would like to say to my colleague František Laudát that the proposals here were read from the Greens just as we agreed on the Gremium. They were read at 14 o'clock, and there was a suggestion that we vote en bloc on it, which I thought would just pass by 85 percent of the votes, and the 15 registered percentages aren't here. The situation was different, but it's more of a coalition mess than a coalition versus opposition. For the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u73	Thank you. The President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club withdraws his application. Whoever's making a mess of this is the chairman of the ANO MP's club. Please clarify your proposal before we vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u74	The proposal was meant to include two points of Babiš's secretary of finance. But I would like to apologize to all of you, colleagues and colleagues. Chairman Hamáček and President Stanjura were right in this speech. I'm sorry, all of you, I didn't get to go to the Grémium, and it's my fault. And I promise you all that I will try not to repeat this situation. Those grémias aren't useless, and I'm taking your criticism on my head. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-000-999.u75	Thank you for the words. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] However, we now have to vote and we will have to vote on all these proposals as President Faltýnek has put them, that is, all four. We will therefore vote on the inclusion of points 56, 59, 54, 55 on Wednesday morning after point 3. Who's in? Initiating vote, who's in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 105, registered to 143 Members of Parliament, for 57, against 19. The motion was not accepted. The other two points, Mr Ženíšek's proposal and Mr Blažek's proposal, have been vetoed, so we will not vote on them. This is how we dealt with the agenda of the meeting and we come to discuss individual points, firmly placed points. We'll be the first to discuss
