ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism and on the amendment of Act No. 40/1964 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on trades and trades (business law), as amended, as amended /German press 276/ - first reading The general debate was suspended on Wednesday 22. 10. We will therefore continue the general debate. At this point, I am registering for the general debate Mrs Jana Fischerová's application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I may have exhausted the application last time, but I'm happy to be here at the talking table again because I wanted to apply again. Just briefly, because we talked about this last week. So on this subject, I want to say about four points here. This law, I will say 159, as is commonly spoken of by professionals, so it is already valid and it is good that a novel is now ready for it. But the amendment, as it is prepared, still I see amendments being made, which we have also discussed today in the subcommittee on tourism, and they are not yet fully prepared. That is why I want to say from this point of view, because I have also listened carefully to the Minister's speech when she proposed a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions or even committees for 30 days, so I say here from my experience that it is necessary to prepare it properly and for a proper period of time, i.e. two or thirty days, or two months. Allow this to remain in place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I will say this because I also forgot to say one important thing last time: to announce a conflict of interest here, because I founded a travel agency in 1991. I'm not physically in it anymore because I have other responsibilities. Ever since I joined public office, my husband and other people have been doing everything there. So that's what I forgot to say last time. And then on this proposal, about the amendment on the conditions of tourism business, I would say the following thing, that the most important thing in the way I read the wording of this amendment, and really after discussions with the travel agency association, which we have two in the market, is the introduction of insurance limits - one million and four million. So I'm going to explain that this one million is for small travel agencies - it's going to end because it's a huge amount for small business entities. And four million for those travel agencies without making any names here, which is not good to promote someone here, so there are Czech business entities on our market that have many times the turnover, but they will have four million insurance claims against insurance companies according to the wording of this amendment. And that is also discriminatory, because there is no account whatsoever of the turnover of these travel agencies. So that is why, at the end of my short speech, I wanted to emphasise: yes, it is good, let us proceed this amendment to second reading, but in due course according to the Rules of Procedure, or at a time of 60 days for discussion in committee. Thank you, who have listened to me, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u3	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. The rapporteur, sorry, after her with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on Mrs Fischerová, and, on the contrary, I would urge you to proceed with the amendment to the tourism legislation until further reading and to reduce the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days. The tourism subcommittee has dealt with this amendment several times, more or less we discussed their comments with travel agency associations, with insurance companies. It's more or less a match. Now we're dealing with this last detail, which is already on the way, we just don't have it at our disposal today. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which should be submitted to this House's press, was also a bit ahead of the subcommittee on tourism. So we've really been dealing with this issue for a long time and we're almost in the finals. So even if someone has a complaint about it, I would ask you to support a reduction of the deadline to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Civic Democratic Party Citizen's Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u6	Well, I don't exercise priority rights either, I held out. This law introduces further and new regulations. I know it's an argument that he was here once already in 2013, and I didn't vote for him even then, because for example I didn't understand why there should be a report every month about the number of tours sold and the total sales. For VAT payers, it is quite simple at all per month. Every month, VAT returns are submitted, where it is quite clear how much it... And even then I had my doubts, at that time Minister Jankovský was what would actually happen with such an overlay of data. I really don't understand what it's gonna do us. The fact that the law enters into the business relationship between insurance and travel agency, travel agency - so be it. I think it should be on their contractual agreement, what all the information the insurance company will request and whether it will insure or not. It's the decision of the person taking the risk, the insurance company. I don't have a problem with that. But more and more responsibilities - it doesn't seem reasonable to me, and I wonder what's going to happen to it. Every month they send information about the number of tours sold and total sales. I understand that. We're gonna get a bunch of data - and what's gonna happen to them, with the data? That's what we're gonna protect? Or on this basis will there be a complaint against the insurance company to terminate the insurance contract? And we talk all the time about the income side or the sales side, we don't talk about the cost side. That's a much more interesting economic result, not just sales, because if you only have one side of it to give - gave, so what will it tell you? Incomplete information. The amount of mandatory sums, that was already discussed by others when we first had a debate on this law, I will not go back to that, that was definitely a debate. But I really don't know what we're in such a hurry. Of course, you can vote to shorten the deadline, nothing against it, but where are we in such a hurry? What's gonna change? It's basically the only product where the client - of the many products that each of us uses today and every day, each of us uses when you have 100% protection. For many others, if you pay an advance on the kitchen or something, the company goes bankrupt, you can claim your rights, but it's either in bankruptcy proceedings or in insolvency proceedings, or in some civil dispute or business dispute, you don't have that certainty. And there's no reason not to trust those numbers that are in the explanatory statement. The decline is not mass in the number. If you take the number of clients to buy a trip a year, and now you find out the number of clients we need to get back to the Republic, who have to get back, it's a negligible percentage. I'm not saying, of course, that we shouldn't protect those who do, and without someone else's fault, they're staying abroad, and the plane doesn't fly because someone didn't pay, and the hotel says they should leave the room that the clients paid properly, and the travel agency didn't send the money, etc. But I don't know if we're going the right way. I would ask in the debate if the Minister could answer the basic question: What are we going to do with this quantity of data? It's one thing to introduce duty and another thing to make sense of it. And the second question. I think we could leave the supervision to the Czech National Bank. It is so vaguely formulated that the Czech National Bank will be in cooperation with the Ministry. [[unintelligible]] I don't really understand. I think there should be an inseparable responsibility. That means-- what does that mean? Who's going to check? Who finally decides whether or not this is a risk case and whether or not sanctions are needed for the insurance company because it carries the risk and concludes insurance contracts. I'd put in a good word for it, so it doesn't matter. It seems more logical to me that it should be the Czech National Bank, which is in general in charge of the whole sector. Alternatively, in the field of insurance, it is also the Ministry of Finance. And now here we are introducing the Ministry of Regional Development. It doesn't seem very logical to me, and I might need some clarification as to why such a model is being proposed, with such shared responsibility, and how it will work in practice except that it will be written in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u7	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, while we are discussing the amendment to the Act on the Terms and Conditions of Tourism Business, I already applied last week. And it's meant for all colleagues and colleagues, and it's not just about this law. We all know that there is a law on conflict of interest, it is Act No. 159/2006 Coll. In particular, § 8 - Notice of personal interest exists. I would really like those people who are in this conflict of interest to report this conflict of interest every time we discuss the law on this land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u9	Thank you, Mr Seďa. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. I am therefore ending the general debate in the event that there is no application. I do not see a motion for a rebuttal or rejection of the proposed proposal. We will deal with the motion on the commandment of the committee and then to shorten the deadline. First, then, the commandment. By its decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm asking who else has a suggestion. Mr Kučera, Mr Stanjura after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to draw the attention of the Chamber of Deputies to the title of this point - an amendment to the Act on the Terms of Business in Tourism. And since this is a business, I would like to propose the commandment of this point to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u11	I thank Mr Kučer. I'm asking if there's another suggestion. Mr Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u12	I do not have a proposal, Mr Vice-President, but I have asked specific questions and I have expected that either there will be a final word or the Minister will speak in the debate. You rushed it so fast, you skipped the final word. So I'm thinking maybe we can go back a little bit before we vote - if the secretary gets off. If I don't, I won't know the answer to my questions, but it wouldn't be the first time, and I'm afraid it won't be the last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u13	I thank Mr Stanjur. Madam Secretary, of course, if she's interested in the final word, she's allowed. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u14	Mr President, fellow Members, honourable Members, thank you for your questions. I'll try to answer them. About the first question about what we're going to do with such a record, so at the moment it's really for the purposes of obtaining information about the management of travel agencies, especially from insurance companies for the determination of insurance risks. It has something to do with what Mrs Fischerová said. One million - four million. This has been discussed on the subcommittee today and we are able to give in or continue to talk about it in some way. So the information is not only about having information about travel agency sales, but also about insurance risks. As the Ministry of Regional Development, we believe that this is very important for our citizens to know this. It's related to the overall structure of the law. To your second question-- now I'm sorry if it was about the insurance policy-- the supervision. So the supervision will be primarily from the Ministry of Regional Development and I will give the reason here immediately. The competence law clearly states that tourism is under the authority of the Ministry of Regional Development and we would like to keep this supervision with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u15	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u16	Thank you. So first, to the second point. I understand that if the Czech National Bank weren't there. I don't care about the shared responsibility. And I ask - if it's just an MMR without the Czech National Bank, fine. I think it's better that both institutions are there. I can't imagine there - the cooperation may be, but most of all, who's going to make the decisions. But with the answer to the first question, I'm sorry, but you didn't actually answer my question. You say for insurance purposes. It's for insurance companies. But there's no obligation to report it to insurance companies. If the insurance company mentions it in the insurance policy, it's perfectly fine. There's no need for us to step in. It is quite common for operating loans or for other loans that insurance companies want to keep reporting not only on sales but on costs, management. Also very often insurance companies or banks want to stop claims in favor of those who... It's perfectly all right. I just don't understand -- they're all gonna send it to you, you're gonna sort it out, and you're gonna send it back to all the insurance companies? I don't understand. Why would the government do it when the insurance company should do it itself? It's okay if the insurance company wants it after who she insures. But I don't understand why these thousands of reports are coming to the MMR. [[15.00 hours]] You're gonna sort that out and send it to the individual insurance companies? I don't know about that. That's why it feels useless. If the insurance company mentions it, it's perfectly fine, it doesn't even have to be in the law, it's the business of the company and the insurance company, but this feels like a waste of weight to me. Yeah, we're gonna hire somebody at the ministry for sure, 'cause they're gonna have to go through it. Plus the monthly ones-- that's very debatable because as the seasons are, so there are months when it just sells less, it might make sense, you'll have numerical lines, but I still miss the point. I know that the state in general tends to store constantly new data, and what of it? How do we ensure that this is not used to compete? In order not to leak information, so that one travel agency doesn't say: we have information, here's our competitor from the next street, he only sold five tours last month and we sold six, so you better buy it with us, we're a bigger company and so on. So, in general, I'm worried when the state is constantly collecting data that I don't think it needs, or maybe it has them in the tax office with those VAT payers. I admit that there are small travel agencies that have a turnover such that they may not be payers, but there will probably not be much real problem there. The moment they grow a little bit, there will be a greater risk to the insurance company, so it is almost certain that it will be the VAT payer, because it will have revenues greater than the million crowns per year. That's not a dizzying sum in the travel tour area. I don't know what the average price is, but if it were 10,000, we'll figure out that these sold tours a year aren't enough, and at that point it's already a payer. So if you try again, if you think it's appropriate what's going to happen with that quantity of data. If we're just really going to distribute it as a government administration to insurance companies, I'd say it's going to be worth doing a job for someone else, for the person who's collecting the insurance, or giving insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u17	Thank you to President Stanjur. The Minister is once again announcing the floor, thereby opening up a general debate. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will express myself and try to explain this once more, but these are exactly the things that we would like to leave for committees and for second reading, but I will try to respond once more to the Czech National Bank. The Czech National Bank does not supervise travel agencies. It'll be us. And we want to do that because we have the competence, and I think it's the right thing to do. The other thing, really, what we're gonna do with the data. We will try to protect our consumers with the overall amendment, which means citizens. We're gonna have a database where everything's gonna be logged in, and I'm not even saying that individual travel agencies are gonna get to it. It will be our information, which will be in our system, which MMR will gesture and which will be available to it. So it's all about your stuff. I understand the imbalance you're implying, but here I would like to say that this is one of those topics, except insurance, and other than the relationship with insurance companies, what we would like to leave for second reading. We are aware of that, and if I may, I would like to ask the House to go through the first reading today and leave it for the second reading. What the rapporteur, Mrs Berdychová, said here - we would be very happy if the deadline was shortened so that the amendment would apply from 1 April 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u19	Thank you, Minister. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly welcome the fact that there is a tendency to continue certain consumer protection, i.e. who orders a travel agency service. Mandatory travel agency insurance by some size, bigger or smaller, I think it's right. But I don't know if I overheard or misinterpreted what the secretary here said, but she said that the data that will be collected about the number of tours etc. will serve for the insurance company as well. And that's where I would see the problem, because for insurance companies to do business without risk, with the risk being solved by collecting and analyzing the material, so I think it's for the private sector, without being the one who would - or I'm the one who wishes the private sector to succeed, but with this helping, we'll insure travel agents, because it's the law, we'll insure them based on some size, but we have so much information from the state that we don't carry any risk for the insurance, so I don't know if I didn't overhear it. If that were the case, that seems a bit of a problem to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u21	I thank Mr Urban. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u22	Today's the end of October, we say we need to shorten the deadline to 30 days, next week's another meeting, so there's really not enough time. In my opinion, even if it were 60 days, the date of April 1 is in no way at risk. I don't see it. This means that we are able to have it discussed within 60 days, maybe a little earlier, so I really do not see the deadline, and moreover, as I was instructed by colleagues and colleagues who have more experience in this area than I do, on April 1 is basically also after the beginning of the season, when the vast majority of tours are purchased, perhaps not the complete majority, but many tours are already purchased. So I honestly don't understand the rush when I hear it at the same time, and I'm glad we're still going to discuss some things. The advantage of the first reading is that we're all here. It's gonna be like this on one or two committees, and the rest of us can go back to that, who aren't on those committees. I agree with what Mr Urban said. It's basically the same thing I said. Why do we do it, public administration, state why it will do it in favour of other private entities, which are certainly insurance companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u23	I thank the honourable Member for his point of view. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mrs Fischerová, with a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u24	Thank you again for the floor. I'll really be brief. I've got less than two minutes. Now that you're listening so nicely, I want to appeal to you across the political spectrum, really support it in 60 days. We have calculated that we are not in any hurry and especially - tours are actually sold year-round and are most shopping at the end of the year, to tell you the truth. So if this were to work out on April 1, 2015, it's kind of in the middle of the season. Let's prepare something that won't be returned so it doesn't pass. Thank you so much for that, and the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-008-018.u25	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? There's no one like that around here. I am therefore ending the general debate. We shall return to the commandments of the committees. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the proposal submitted to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Furthermore, Mr Kučera has proposed a commandment to the Economic Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has any other suggestions. It's not like that. I will call our colleagues from the lobby and proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development? Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 96, registered by 173 Members and Members, for 160, against none. The motion was accepted. Mr Kučera also proposes to order this bill to be discussed by the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment to the Economic Committee, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 97-order vote, 173 Members of Parliament signed in for 117, against 32. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that we have ordered the proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Economic Committee. I also note Mrs Berdychová's proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days. Initiating vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 98, 174 Members are registered, for 77, against 44. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Economic Committee, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. [[15.10 hours]] The next item is the item number
