ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-001-041.u1	41. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Swiss Confederation, on the other hand, on European satellite navigation programmes /house printing 137/ - first reading I ask that the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař present his opening words. Before he comes, I do not see him here, I will ask Mr Pavel Šrámek to take a seat at the rapporteur's table. Minister Prachař has arrived. If Mr Šrámek is not here, the Minister has a little time, because according to the committee's proposal, we will put a change to the rapporteur. The Committee proposed that Mr René Číp, instead of Mr Pavel Šrámek, present a report on this international treaty. Then we will decide in the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. Before that I ask: does anyone else have a proposal other than the committee's proposal? It's not like that. So we can vote. We will decide on a change to the rapporteur. Mr René Číp would be the rapporteur instead of Pavel Šrámek. Who's in? I have begun voting order number 30. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 30 of 149 present, for 140, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask Mr René Číp to take the position at the rapporteur's table, while I ask Mr Antonín Prachař to give the introductory word on this international treaty. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-001-041.u2	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to give an introductory word on the point of ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Swiss Confederation, on the other hand, concerning European satellite navigation programmes. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr President, honourable Members, the Government is proposing to Parliament to approve the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Swiss Confederation, on the other, on European satellite navigation programmes. Cooperation agreements in the field of satellite navigation shall be negotiated with countries which, from a global point of view, participate significantly in the space programme -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-001-041.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. If anyone wants to discuss topics other than the international treaty, please bring their discussions into the foyer and let the Minister speak in peace. That's what I'm asking all of you to do. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-001-041.u4	I understand Galileo is not the center of interest, but it is one of the few things the Czech Republic can boast about on the outside. So I would like to continue - which, from a global point of view, play a significant role in the space program and have high-quality technologies for this area. The purpose of the agreement presented is to ensure that Switzerland is closely linked to the phase of the construction and operation of the European programmes of the Galileo and EGNOS global satellite systems. Switzerland's involvement in the European Global Navigation Satellite System Programme is considered politically and economically very beneficial and beneficial. Switzerland has been the closest partner of the European Union in cooperation with Galileo since its beginning. It shall contribute politically, technically and financially to all phases of the Galileo programme through its membership of the European Space Agency and through its informal participation in the management structures designated by the Galileo programme. This agreement will give cooperation a formal character. The Cooperation Agreement was signed by the Minister of Transport on 5 December 2013 in Brussels. The agreement is in accordance with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, with obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, with commitments taken over under other applicable treaties and with generally recognised principles of international law. The implementation agreement will not affect the state budget. Allow me to ask the Chamber of Deputies this way to agree to ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-001-041.u5	I thank the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař and therefore now ask Mr René Číp's rapporteur to present his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-001-041.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that Switzerland has been the closest partner of the EU to cooperation under the Galileo programme since its beginning. Switzerland has long contributed politically, technically and financially to all phases of the Galileo programme through its membership of the European Space Agency, and through its informal participation in the European Union's management structures specifically designed for the Galileo programme. This Agreement will deepen Switzerland's close involvement in the European programmes of global GNSS navigation satellite systems and will give it formal character. Finally, as rapporteur, I would propose the commandment of the agreement in question to the foreign committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-001-041.u7	I thank the rapporteur and allow me to step a little further away from the normal framework. Members of the Bavarian Land Assembly came to the gallery, so I welcome them among us, colleagues from the Federal Republic of Germany, and I wish them a pleasant stay here in the beautiful already May Prague. [[The whole O.R. claps.]] Now that I've cut the hearing, I'm gonna read the note. Ms Kateřina Konečná asked for an apology from 10 a.m. to the end of today's day, Mrs Anna Putnová from 10.30 a.m. to 14.30 a.m. and Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for the late arrival of around 9.30 a.m. today. We can therefore continue and discuss the general debate on this proposal. I note that I have no written application for the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. We will consider proposals for the commandments of the committees. The Organizing Committee proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, as did the rapporteur in his report. I'm asking: does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will take the vote. By voting number 31, we will decide that this press will be directed to the Foreign Committee. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 31 of the 154 present, for 137, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. [[9.20 hours]] The next item will be:
