ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 87/1995 Coll., on savings banks and credit cooperatives and certain measures related to this and supplementing the Czech National Council Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, as amended /German press 253/ - Second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Vice-President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending the Act on savings and lending cooperatives and certain related measures contains seven measures which respond to the current situation in the cooperative base sector, in particular to the growth of risks in the sector itself and consequently to the risk to the deposit guarantee fund. These risks illustrate last year's withdrawal of the authorisation of the Metropolitan Savings Association, which was the largest entity on the market, and the withdrawal of WPB Capital's licence from June this year. Individual measures were prepared by the Ministry of Finance in close cooperation with the Czech National Bank and some of them are based on recommendations of an in-depth assessment of the Czech financial sector by the International Monetary Fund. Since I have already explained in more detail at this point at first reading why the draft law is being presented, I will merely recapitulate the main changes it brings. The draft law limits the size of the cooperative reserve by introducing a ceiling for its balance sheet total of 5 billion. Crowns. The effectiveness of this measure is proposed from 1 January 2018 and will thus provide the market with sufficient time to take adequate measures. One can be the transformation into a universal bank. If the cooperative reserve chooses this solution by the end of 2015, the second proposed measure will allow it to obtain a bank licence for the lower capital requirement regime at a level of equivalent of 5 million. EUR. To raise capital to the standard 500 million. The CZK required by the banks will have a period of five years. The third proposed measure is the introduction of a double contribution of the cooperative reserve to the Deposit Insurance Fund, and the fourth is the increase in the compulsory payment of part of the profit after tax to the venture fund. For these two measures, the effectiveness is proposed from 1 January 2015. The proposal further specifies the subject matter of the cooperative reserve business by limiting the amount of the loan granted to a member, an economically linked group of members or family members by the amount of 30 million. Crowns. This clarification will be effective from 1 January 2018, allowing the market to take adequate measures. Furthermore, the draft law does not allow the provision of products and services to cooperative persons who are not members of it, with effect from 1 January 2015. [[12.20 hours]] The proposal also substantially strengthens the involvement of the members of the cooperative base on the functioning of the campelette itself. With effect from 1 January 2018, the minimum amount of the basic member contribution shall be fixed, which shall be at least CZK 1000. Given that such a low amount would not constitute sufficient interest for the members of the cooperative, it is further combined with the rule that the deposit of a member to whom interest or similar benefit is paid must not exceed 10 times the sum of his basic contribution and the additional member contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u3	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment, and I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep their voice down, because the noise level is becoming unbearable. Thank you and I apologize for the interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u4	This rule will be applied differently for existing and new deposits. For existing deposits, the proposal is expected to take effect from 1 January 2018, in addition, in a modified form, eliminating the risk of a rapid flow of funds from the sector. For new deposits, the efficiency shall be determined as from 1 July 2015. Finally, let me just say that the material presented may have a marginal impact on the state budget and other public budgets. The possible impact is given by the fact that the Member State, its organisational units, local authorities or other bodies governed by public law will have to make a new contribution if they remain members of the cooperative reserve even after the Act has become effective. Furthermore, I will add that the bill is in accordance with the law of the European Union and the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. Madam President, honourable Members, in the light of my arguments, I ask you to discuss the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u5	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 253/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Dolejš, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u6	Thank you. If I had only read three words from the budget committee's resolution, my role would have been very simple, because, despite the fact that we had the material presented at first reading initially with the idea that we would discuss it under Section 90, and finally decided to have a proper discussion, because we knew that it would not be easy and that there would be some tension, I must say that at the committee's meeting there was finally no matter to be put to the vote, and therefore the committee approved this material without any comments. But that it was not quite that simple, I will at least allow myself a little taste of the discussion that took place there, because, of course, representatives of the party involved in this discussion, i.e. campels, or cooperative bases, who, if I sum up, understand the need for regulation, but they feel that setting the regulation will not help stabilization, but rather liquidation. And now, of course, it's all about the consequences. There was also a representative of the Deposit Insurance Fund who confirmed that although there was money there, but if there were to be a domino effect, the balance sheet sum of this small segment of the financial sector is essentially equal to the money available there. Not to mention sensitivity towards savers. This debate took place, and although it did not lead to any concrete conclusions, i.e. amendments, it should be said that it was essentially measured by the view of the impacts, and there I must say that the view of the supervisory institution, i.e. the Czech National Bank, based on certain analyses and figures, and the view of the Association of Cooperatives differed diametrically in this respect. In short, the question is to what extent the risk of law approval in this form is serious. Here I must say in particular towards the public and towards the saver's public, I must say and recall that for those who have a classic and interest-bearing deposit in some campel girl, so if it is a deposit of up to CZK 2 million, they are covered by a classic guarantee as for any other deposit. Of course, a member's share may already fall to hell, and it is very small, and of course it can fall into a new regime, which is called. flips after the due date and should rotate further. But that's a different story. The debate was partly about how to better establish, for example how to better set deadlines for the effectiveness of individual measures, but I do not want to anticipate any discussion or any amendments if anyone has heard calls from this part of the financial sector. So much for the resolution and the debate on the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have Mr Kalousek's priority right. Please prepare Mr Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if for nothing else, in order to prove to Mr Okamur that the occasional passionate disputes between Minister Babiš and myself are not personal, that these are expert disputes and ideas, I would like to ask you very much here to support this proposal. The problem of savings and credit cooperatives was one of the major difficulties of the balance sheets of the banking sector in the Czech Republic in the 1990s. It was somehow resolved at no small cost, and since then, especially thanks to the monetary bubble and unprecedented economic growth, the situation has been more or less stabilised. That was the case in the Lehman crisis. After the fall of Lehman Brothers, when logically all states feared that there would be a run on all institutions where people had their deposits, so they did together - I say, together, we all in the European Union have committed a huge moral risk, when we left our participation and gave 100% guarantee. Until then it was true that deposits were insured, at least up to 90 percent, historically in campels even up to 80 percent, i.e. in the case of payment from the Deposit Insurance Fund, the depositor carried a certain risk of participation of at least 10%. At a time when - and in general, this is the same debate that we had here with Mr Plzák - there are two huge risks, you are dealing with it more. There was a debt crisis in the state, we were dealing with a debt crisis in the state and less economic growth. There was a huge financial crisis here, we were dealing with a huge public panic and rune risk for banks, and we all agreed in the European Union to participate 100% in the Deposit Guarantee Fund up to a certain amount, i.e. with zero involvement. Huge moral hazard has taken place, especially in the savings and credit cooperatives sector, where it may not matter to the depositor to a certain limit whether the campel meets or does not meet unrealistic conditions. He's definitely insured. And it is still a growing ticking bomb within the balance sheet of the Czech retail, the Czech banking sector. What Minister Babiš and the Czech Government are proposing is a perfectly rational measure to tame the ticking bomb to a problem that, when created, will be small and manageable. But it can't grow to monstrous proportions. From this point of view, I support this proposal, in particular I support the 1:10 ratio, because the 1:10 ratio returns 90% of the contribution that is essential for us not to take common moral risks. [[12.30 hours]] Of course, I can't, as a member of the Chamber of Deputies, have one comment. And I think that I am raising it now not for personal reasons, but for the sake of transparency and for the credibility that institutions such as the Chamber of Deputies and the Government of the Czech Republic should have. Logically, someone can translate this step as a step that is brutally regulatory towards savings and credit cooperatives, and because the market is largely common, it is very supportive of banks. We all know that the petitioner has at least 25 billion bank loans. And then there is a logical question which any vicious language can raise - for what advantages, for which restructuring of its small loans is presented by the petitioner, which clearly strengthens the position of banks against savings and lending cooperatives in the market. There may be only one defense against that. That the petitioner, who is also the owner of the conglomerate, who has the 25 billion loans, will publish how his credit agreements with Czech banks have been restructured over the last year, and therefore whether or not there is a risk of suspecting that he is presenting this not because of concern about the stability of the retail balance of the Czech Republic, but that he is presenting it as a reward for the restructuring of his credit agreements. I am stressing this because I particularly care that this bill should be approved. I think it's the right thing to do. But just because I think it's right, I'm ready to fight for it, I'm ready to support it, so I'd like the self-initiative promoter to remove any suspicion of a possible conflict of interest and possible corruption risk in advance. I hope I don't want so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u9	Thank you and I now have the priority right of the Minister of Finance, Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I was afraid that Mr. Kalousek would just present something, but his folklore is unbelievable. The fact that I'm some kind of intruder around here, you can tell that from different weekbooks that write it regularly. So I would recommend a week, where I'm on the cover of a $25 billion loan. This is indeed scandalous for a company that makes about 230 billion turnovers. If anyone understands what the current assets of a foreign source are, then the balance sheet is about plus six billion, which means if Mr Kalousek wants us to do a loan presentation here, it's not a problem. I do not come into contact with the banks, I have a deputy for Mr Pros' ČSSD, it is his business, and I have never been there because of Mr Kalousek here and I will never attend the meeting of the Bank Board, because, as he says, I have a conflict of interest in the toilet, I will not go there. So I can calm him down that the Czech banks are very healthy, they're loaded with money. Now the European Central Bank is actually forcing European Union banks to give loans, by actually making the euro deposit not by getting interest, but by paying. So I can calm him down that my firm is fine, he even has a pillow of about 20 billion to draw, so-called. The pointer, I don't know if Mr Kalousek understands, the debt ebitda is about 1.3. But if anybody wants to do it, of course we'd be happy to do a presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u11	Thank you and now, with priority right, Mr Kalousek, then I note here Mr Votava's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u12	Minister, you are in permanent defense resistance. I don't think that was necessary at the moment. You didn't understand. On the contrary, I'm here as your ally. You have put forward a bill that I support unconditionally, and if I had the time, I would, too. I know that it was prepared in cooperation with the Czech National Bank, and it is the right law and it is meant to be. It is precisely because I care that this law is adopted and accepted in a society-wide manner that it is necessary to eliminate all suspicions of conflict of interest. There's nothing weird about that. I don't want to publish ebits, I have nothing to say to you in your company's business. But there is slander and suspicion - I'm sorry, I don't know if it's slander - there is often the suspicion that, for a helpful attitude towards Czech banks, the Czech banks are willing to restructure the Agrofert contracts. This suspicion, which none of us probably believe here, but you know Czech investigative journalists, can be easily eliminated by publishing all the amendments to your credit agreements that you have against Czech banks in the last year. If they have been restructured favorably for Agrofert, then it should be said why, or there will remain the suspicion that they have been restructured for this proposal. And I think that in the interests of transparency and the fight against corruption - I cannot ask you to do this, and I certainly do not want to discuss it in the Czech Parliament. As a big media boss, I think you have a chance to publish this with the Czech public and say yes, you don't have to worry, my banking legislation doesn't affect my credit exposure to Czech banks. I think that the Czech public and, after all, whoever deserves this information because of your large credit exposure on the one hand and on the other hand, your position as Finance Minister, who is aware of it. You can't say that because I'm presenting banking legislation here, and here I have 25 billion loans, and in between, there's a Chinese wall. So please show us the Chinese wall. The best way to show us the Chinese wall is by publishing the possible restructuring or non-restructuring of credit agreements, which you can no longer do as Minister of Finance, but you can do as the owner of Agrofert, you're in such a double role here, and I'm begging you. I beg you as your ally in this bill that I want to enforce, but I don't want that bill to be burdened with suspicion that there's a corrupt motive behind it. I think I made that clear enough. In this context, Minister, I would like to ask you, it is best if it sounds clearly on the microphone. I have certainly heard a rumor in the Brussels roundabouts, but I would like you to say here that it is a rumor that it is not true that you, at the Ecofin meeting as the finance minister, were an important representative of the European Investment Bank, which is a bank within European architecture, asking whether it is possible for the European Investment Bank to loan Agrofert. That's how I heard it. I bitterly rejected it as a Czech citizen as a slander, but I would quite like you to confirm that it was a slander. Then maybe we'd all be calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u13	Thank you. Now with the de facto request of Mr Votava and then Minister Babiš. You have the right of priority, but the right of action always comes first, Minister. Please, Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u14	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I am not going to represent Vice-President Babiš here. Of course, he must answer these questions himself. I'm not saying they're not legitimate, they might even be answered. But I think it's a little unfair of Mr Kalousek to tie it to the campers. On the one hand, he himself says that this bill will support that he understands that tougher regulation of this financial market is needed. Maybe he should've done it himself earlier, two years ago, maybe he would've done it today if he was the finance minister. So, Mr President, it's a little unfair to connect it like this. But, of course, you have a perfectly legitimate right to raise any such questions. The need to regulate this market harder is quite obvious, necessary. Of course, the question is how. The Government's bill is tabled here, and we have discussed this widely in the Committee on Budgets. Of course, the Association of Cooperatives, they don't like the ratio 1:10, or 10:1, that's the question, I don't know if there's gonna be an amendment. I know that the association was preparing an amendment itself, whether anyone would take it and adopt this amendment, of course it would be a question of voting at third reading. I, of course, join in this - even in relation to the Deposit Insurance Fund, because it was drained from the campels, unfortunately drained out of it the money, the essential means of what was being reported in the campels, by the very thieving, when I put it this way. They were robberies, and the fund is, of course, what it is, and if it were to happen - and so did colleague Dolejš here - to have some domino effect - it is, of course, to be considered, what it would look like with the Deposit Insurance Fund. [[Prime Minister, I'm sorry, your time!]] So much in the skeleton.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u15	With Mr Kalousek in fact, then Minister Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u16	Sorry, Mr Votava through Madam President, it is not unfair. Of course, I support the law because I really had a very similar one, perhaps the same one prepared. After all, the initiative is from the regulator, which is not the Ministry of Finance, but the Czech National Bank. I consider the law to be right, and of course I have, only the House has fallen. But at that point, I had three hundred credit claims at Heger's for lunch, so I suppose even if Heger was willing to restructure, he wouldn't want legislation for it. We're in a different situation today. Today, this is presented by a guy who's 25 billion. loans, and we, in its own interest, should remove any suspicion, in the interests of the credibility of this institution and in the interest of the government, that if it presents any of the retail and banking legislation, it is not burdened by its private interest of a 25-billion-dollar creditor. Is it so hard for you to understand for all of you who had a full mouth of conflict of interest and the fight against corruption? After all, a simple thing is enough, and I am asking Minister Babiš here, and this House will not be able to decide whether he could publish the restructuring of Agrofert's loans over the last year in the interests of transparency. Then let everyone take a picture of whether there is a threat or a conflict of interest. Maybe there wasn't one, I don't know, but if some Czech banks were to restructure loans significantly in recent months, then it would be considered. Then the corruption risk would be burdened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u17	Thank you, and I ask you now to comment on the facts of Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u18	Thank you. I think the law's been going on for a long time. I do not understand why Mr Kalousek did not solve this. The law was made by the Czech National Bank in coordination with the Ministry of Finance, and unlike Mr Kalousek, I am a person who is catching up with things. It's a debate about nothing. Please, Mr Kalousek through Madam President, buy a Week magazine and go to the company register. My law firm puts records in there every year until 30. 6. Compare the last few years and see if we've restructured or restructured. If it's not enough, I'll personally give you a presentation, or I can show you around. I am aware of this rhetoric, because, of course, I, as a former right-wing and right-wing voter - I greet Mr Laudát here - I am sad how our right-wing has turned out that he has no program except for the anti-Babish program. And that's the whole TOP 09 and ODS program, kicking in Babiš. I mean, I'm sorry. And I repeat again, I'll cover anything you want. The entire state administration was burdened last month by Mr Fiala's intervention on all Agrofert's contracts with the state. Of course, when someone has 300 companies, they have different contacts with the state. Everything was put on paper and I think our coalition partners have been very helpful, so I am curious that the next time someone will intersect some related companies of some Members, how the state administration will stand up to it. So I'm definitely gonna do whatever it takes. I don't think anyone's more transparent than me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u19	Thank you, Minister, for respecting the time limit. And now please the de facto Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u20	Thank you. Our program, Minister, is not anti-Babish, but part of our program is the fight against corruption and conflict of interest. And it is not our fault that, wherever we step, Agrofert will jump. That's just the way it is. And I agree with you, although I did not buy the Week magazine, but I read it that your company is fully transparent from the point of view of the Commercial Code, as the legislature requires of every corporation that no one counted on, that its owner would also be the first Vice-President of the Government for the economy and the Minister of Finance. If the owner of a corporation that is burdened with $25 billion becomes the first prime minister of the government for the economy and the finance minister, then I think that the public might want a little more transparency from him than the trade code imposes. You said you were ready to do anything for the transparency. I repeat once again one thing: Wherever in your party press, and you have a lot of titles, please publish what restructuring of credit agreements took place between the Czech banks and Agrofert in the last year. If you write none, we'll all be happy. There's no conflict of interest if there isn't one. But maybe they did have some. Then you have to ask why they took place and on what basis. It's just logical that the transparency here has to be bigger to be sure. I note that I am still waiting for you to confirm to me that it was just a dirty rumor that you asked about the possibility of lending Agrofert to the European Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u21	Thank you for respecting the time limit, and I also have here the factual remark of Mr Stanjura and then of Minister Babiš. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u22	So far, no one has stepped up from us to that point, but when Minister Babiš thinks that our program is anti-babish, I want to assure him that it is not. You can be completely calm. Our program needs one VAT rate, and you supported it at the last point today, so you see, here we found some kind of program match. If, of course, Babiš's support is the program of your movement, we disagree, but I don't blame you for it, unlike us. I'd like you to... So read our program, and if there's anything anti-babish in it, show it to me, and if I say yes, you're right, this is where we defined ourselves. There's no such thing. The fact that we are having a debate on the draft laws and, if necessary, we are bringing up amendments and some of us are asking questions in my opinion factually after the previous debate and we are not getting answers is a reality that we have become accustomed to. But I can assure you, your colleague, your colleagues, that there is no way our program is anti-baby, and I think we prove it every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u23	Thank you, and now please, with the de facto Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u24	Thank you, one last time. Mr. Stanjura, I was coming out of the journal Law, where your chairman had the best speech in ODS history and there were headlines "rich Babiš, who speaks stupid Czech" That was the speech, and that Babiš guy at your congress sounded a lot. And Mr Kalousek again: No, I did not ask for the European Investment Bank. Mr Gregor even goes there, so Agrofert does not have a loan from the European Investment Bank. It only comes from Czech commercial banks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u25	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with Mr Stanjura's de facto Member and then Mr Kalousek. I'm just explaining that whoever loggs in electronically is considered written and comes first. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u26	We really can't help what headlines are in the paper. And we don't own the paper! I also don't blame you for the headlines in the journals you own. So if you read our Prime Minister's speech, you won't be able to find the words you quoted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u27	Thank you. And I still have a written application for Mrs Wernerová's de facto, if that is the case. There's been a mistake. Please, Mr. Kalousek, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u28	Excuse me, Minister, I don't want to bother you. Of course, no legal standard requires you to answer me accurately. And I know, of course, that you haven't sent any applications to the European Investment Bank, and I know that Deputy Director Gregor is sitting on the Supervisory Board. My question was different. Whether you asked the European Investment Bank's officials that something like this would be possible. They simply go by this slander, which I bitterly rejected as a Czech patriot, but I would quite like you to clearly reject it here: Yes, I have never talked to any EIB employee about the possibility of obtaining credit for Agrofert. I wished for this assurance for our peaceful sleep. But of course you don't have to give it to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u29	In fact, please, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u30	Mr. Kalousek, I said here that Agrofert has about 15 billion free lines. So what's the logic of asking someone? I didn't ask!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u31	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone duly registered by Mr. Beznoska. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u32	Good morning or noon? What time is it? One? He'll have lunch. Very briefly. I haven't been in the House long enough to repeat for the tenth time what has been said in front of me ten times. I'll take it briefly back to the campels. Mr Dolejš described very nicely the debate that took place on the Committee on Budgets. I am also one of those who supports regulation, tightened regulation by the Czech National Bank, however much we are talking about about around one percent of the market and we have campels in the whole republic I suspect 11. However, I think that if there were a domino effect, it would have a significant impact on the Deposit Insurance Fund. So all the things that we've been talking about, and I'm applying to them, they have their logic. Nevertheless, in the context of a detailed debate, I am calling on the amendment. One will be in the sense of tightening up even the conditions regarding the balance sheet sum of the campels and the other a little bit more responsive to the campels, the release of the time. Nothing, and so much discussed ratio 1:10 will change in my proposal. So very briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u33	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur, the rapporteur, whether they are interested in the final word. This is not the case, so I am initiating a detailed debate in which I am registering Mr Beznoska's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u34	Thank you for the floor. I will try to make an amendment in those two areas, as I spoke of him a second ago. First thing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 is replaced by the following: in Section 8, the current text is referred to as paragraph 1 and paragraphs 2 and 3 are added: 2: The balance sheet sum of the cooperative reserve must not exceed 4 billion. Crowns. Paragraph 2 3: The aggregate balance sheet total of cooperative accounts which are controlled by the same person or persons acting in agreement shall not exceed 4 billion. Crowns. Second. Article I, point (a) 10 is replaced by the following: in Section 28g, the following paragraphs 4 to 6 are inserted after paragraph 3: 4: If the Czech National Bank finds that the balance sheet total of the cooperative reserve exceeded 4 billion. CZK, imposes a guarantee of remedial measures and provides a reasonable period of time for redress, up to a maximum of one year. If the cooperative reserve fails to remedy it within this period, the Czech National Bank will withdraw its authorisation. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5: If the Czech National Bank finds that the aggregate balance sheet total of the cooperative bases referred to in Section 8 (1) (b) of the Act of Accession of the Bank of Greece is not sufficient to ensure that the balance sheet balance sheet total of the cooperative accounts referred to in Section 8 (1) (a) of the Act of Accession of the Bank of Greece is equal to the total amount of the cooperative assets of the Bank of Greece. 3 exceeded 4 billion. CZK, it shall impose on these cooperative agents corrective measures and provide a reasonable period of time for redress, up to a maximum of one year. If the cooperatives concerned do not comply with this deadline, the Czech National Bank shall withdraw the authorisation for all the cooperatives referred to in Section 8 (1). 3. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6: At the time of the proceedings for an application for a cooperative agreement to change the legal form to a joint-stock company and the procedure for granting a banking licence under the Act governing the activities of banks, the procedures referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 shall not apply. paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be referred to as paragraphs 7 and 8. Third change. Article II (2) (a) 5 is replaced by the following: 4 sentences of the second Act No. 87/1995 Coll., as effective as of 1 January 2018, shall not apply in relation to the sum of the deposits associated with interest or similar benefit that the member has entered into the cooperative reserve before 1 January 2018 until the date on which the maturity of these deposits is extended or increased. The interest credited shall not be taken into account. As from 1 January 2020, the provisions of Section 3 (2) shall apply to such a pool of deposits. 4 the sentence of the second Act No. 87/1995 Coll. in the version effective from 1 January 2018, where the sum of the paid-up basic member contribution and the paid-up additional member contribution of the member of the cooperative reserve does not exceed CZK 20,000. Where the sum of the deposits of a member of the cooperative reserve referred to in the first sentence is used, the limitation referred to in Section 3 (2) shall apply. 4 sentences of the second Act No. 87/1995 Coll. as effective from 1 January 2018, does not belong to a member of the cooperative interest reserve or to a similar advantage from a part of the aggregate of deposits that exceeds the limits laid down. Fourth change. The following paragraph 6 is added to Article II: If the balance sheet total of the cooperative balance sheet or the aggregated balance sheet total of the cooperative accounts, which are controlled by the same person or persons acting in agreement, does not exceed 4 billion by 1 January 2015. CZK, the balance sheet total of the cooperative balance sheet or the aggregate balance sheet total of the cooperative accounts, which are controlled by the same period or persons acting in agreement, shall not exceed 4 billion. CZK from 1 January 2015 to 1 January 2018. [[A person?]] [[Persons?]] Fifth change. Article III is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So two changes: tightening up in terms of the balance sheet sum, and unwinding in terms of the deadline, so that some provisions of the Czech National Bank's measures do not apply retrospectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I am not registering an application, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the appellant, the rapporteur, whether they are interested in final words. This is not the case, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal and at the same time interrupting the meeting. I'm declaring lunch break. Meet me here at 2:30. Just organizational information: The Organizing Committee will meet at 13.05. Thank you and enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-003-007.u36	Madam, honourable Members, Members of the Government, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations, so that we have fixed points for this afternoon. Before we approach them, we will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Mr Brázdil, who apologizes from 14.30 to midnight for working reasons. And so does my colleague Holeček from 2:30 p.m. Fixed point for this afternoon's decision is point number
