ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-003-015.u1	15. Government Bill on the exchange of information on financial accounts with the United States of America for the purposes of tax administration /house print 330/ - first reading under § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to this bill at first reading. Once again, I ask the Vice-President of the Government to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-003-015.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law on the exchange of information on financial accounts with the United States of America for tax management purposes. The purpose of the bill is the implementation of the so-called FATCA agreement, signed between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on 4 August 2014 and submitted to Parliament to express its consent to ratification, House press 311. [[9.30 hours]] The aim of the FATCA agreement and the implementing act is, in particular, to strengthen the fight against tax evasion and to make international cooperation more effective in the field of information exchange. The draft law will allow the Czech Republic to fulfil international obligations, to pass them on to the FATCA agreement, which could not have been implemented without the implementing law. This is about obtaining data on US tax residents' accounts from domestic financial institutions and their subsequent provision to the US Financial Administration. At the same time, the law will allow the Czech tax administrator to receive data on the accounts of Czech tax residents with financial institutions in the United States of America and to use them in the administration of taxes and the fight against tax evasion. It is necessary that the FATCA Agreement concluded between the United States of America and the draft law implementing it should apply no later than 31 December 2014. Not adopting the law would very negatively affect the international reputation of the Czech Republic as a country that proclaims the goal of effectively fighting tax evasion. At the same time, it would have fatal consequences for the financial market of the Czech Republic, as only 70 percent would be withheld from the Czech financial institutions as equivalent of the US withholding tax and transferred to any payment from the source of the United States. The direct impact is estimated at 1 billion per year. There is a risk that Czech financial institutions will follow the FATCA agreement without explicit regulation for fear of this withholding tax and thus violate Czech legislation, in particular for the protection of personal data and banking secrecy. Non-acceptance on the part of financial institutions would also create additional financial costs, as the connection of the Czech Republic to the FATCA agreement was long-term announced. Ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons set out above, I am asking you to support the proposed bill, as it is necessary for the implementing act to take effect together with the FATCA agreement by 31 December 2014. I therefore ask you to approve the proposed bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-003-015.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please the rapporteur, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-003-015.u4	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, my report may be very brief because the Minister, as the promoter, has thoroughly justified the adoption of this government proposal, but I must say with a little laugh that my colleague Kalousek beat me to it. My reservations were to reciprocity again, so we have no choice but to ask the government and the Ministry of Finance to take certain steps in the future to make reciprocity there. That's one thing. Second thing. Let me also answer, in accordance with my intelligence report, de facto, the question raised by the ODS - how Czech legislation is treated in the area of personal data protection. This is what this government proposal is meant to do, so that these data are protected, so that it is all in accordance with Czech legislation. This also concerns banking secrecy, disclosure of information, etc. My slightly raised eyebrows were above Section 90, but of course I am pragmatically aware that this proposal needs to be approved, so as rapporteur, I also recommend this government proposal, press 330, to approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-003-015.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'll ask if anyone's checking in. It's not like that. In that case, I am ending the general debate. The Minister's final words, if any. the rapporteur is not required. Since there was no objection to the hearing pursuant to Section 90, we will now decide on the continuation of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 330 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 32, registered is 174, for 130, against 1. This proposal was adopted. In that case, I am initiating a detailed debate, however I point out that amendments cannot be tabled here. It is only possible to propose a correction of the date of effectiveness in the draft law or its legislative technical, grammatical, written or printing errors. I don't see any applications for a detailed debate, so I'm done. I will ask you once again about the final words after a detailed debate. It's not like that. In that case, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the exchange of information on financial accounts with the United States of America for tax management purposes under the House of Press 330." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 33, registered is 175, for 152, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. I state that we have given our consent to the bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister, and I conclude with item 15. Let's continue with point number
