ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u1	17. Members of Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, Vojtěch Filip, Stanislav Grospič, Miloslava Vostrá and Pavel Kováčik's proposal to issue a law repealing Act No. 451/1991 Coll., laying down certain other prerequisites for the performance of certain functions in the state bodies and organizations of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, as amended, and Act No. 279/1992 Coll., on some other prerequisites for the performance of certain functions occupied by the provisions or appointment of members of the Police of the Czech Republic and members of the Czech Correctional Education Corps, as amended / House print 21/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press No. 21/1. I ask that Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová present the proposal for the appellants. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am here to present to you the House Press 21, a bill which, as the Vice-President said, sounds rather complex, but we all know that this is a proposal to abolish two rendering laws. I know I am most likely here to fight windmills, but let me appeal to your conscience and to your responsibilities of Members, and to remind you that in the Czech Republic, which at least verbally denies all forms of discrimination that criticises non-compliance with human rights in the world, there is still a group of citizens who are excluded from public life not because they have done something, but simply because they have been enrolled somewhere. Often because the person responsible was given a red dot or a financial reward for entering into the relevant lists. A lot of these people were seeking redress in the courts, and most of them succeeded in their disputes. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] These people no longer seek employment in public positions for the most part. The point is that we allow our rule of law to be mingled in 2014 with a law which has been the subject of criticism by the non-governmental sector and international organisations since its adoption, when it could still be considered that the new regime is dealing with the exponents of the previous regime in this form. That he did it in the wrong way, that's another thing. After their adoption, these laws were attacked by a group of Members of the Constitutional Court in 1991 and 1992, and I thank the current Minister Dienstbier for being among them. The Constitutional Court, although it found shortcomings in them, did not abolish these laws, but I note that the laws had limited effectiveness until 1996. [[16.10 hours]] However, a law extending this effectiveness until 2000 was adopted shortly before the expiry of this effect and subsequently it was called "still'. Even President Havel then returned to the Chamber of Deputies a law extending the effectiveness of the rendering laws, with reference to their contradiction with everything I pointed out here. At this point, it is up to you whether you are prepared to discuss this form of discrimination against a large group of residents at least. I wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u3	Thank you, Madame. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u4	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will not abuse my position as rapporteur and will retain my personal opinion until the negotiations followed by this report. I am merely saying that the Government has adopted a resolution on this proposal, which has been distributed to you as House Press 21/1, in which it expressed its opposition to this bill, for a number of reasons that you all have mentioned in this press. So much news.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening this general debate, in which Mr Stanjura, President of the Stanjura Club, has signed up with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u6	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I don't usually read prepared papers, but because I want to quote the law, I will make an exception today and the first part of my speech will be an exact quote of Act No. 198/1993 Coll. This is the law on the unlawfulness of the Communist regime. "Paragraph 1. The Communist regime and those who actively promoted it denied citizens any possibility of free expression of political will, forced them to hide their views on the situation in the state and society and forced them to publicly agree with what they considered to be a lie or a crime, by persecution or a threat of persecution against them themselves, their families and loved ones. He systematically and permanently violated human rights, especially by severely oppressing some political, social and religious groups of the population. He violated the fundamental principles of democratic rule of law, international treaties and his own laws and practically imposed the will and interests of the Communist Party and its representatives above the law. He used all the power instruments for the persecution of citizens, in particular: executed, murdered, and imprisoned in prisons and camps for forced labor, in investigations, and at the time of their imprisonment, he used brutal methods, including physical and psychological torture and exposure to inhuman hardships, He was absolving them of their property and violating their property rights. made it impossible for them to pursue employment, occupation or function and to obtain higher or vocational education; prevented them from traveling freely abroad or returning freely, called for military service in the Secondary Technical Battalions and Technical Battalions for an unlimited period of time. To achieve his goals, he did not hesitate to commit crimes, to allow their impunity to be committed, and to confer unjustified advantages on those involved in crimes and persecutions. He joined with a foreign power, and since 1968 he has maintained this status with the help of its occupying forces. The crimes committed and other facts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be fully responsible for those who advocated the Communist regime as officials, organisers and instigators in both political and ideological areas. In particular, in the light of the facts referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that: 1 of this law was a regime based on communist ideology, which decided on state governance and the fates of citizens in Czechoslovakia from 25 February 1948 to 17 November 1989, criminal, illegitimate and reprehensible. The Communist Party of Czechoslovakia was a criminal and repulsive organization, similar to other organizations based on its ideology, which in their work aimed at suppressing human rights and the democratic system." So much for the exact citation of the law in force. We all made a pledge to the Member and promised allegiance to the Constitution and to the laws and to the people of this country. The Lustration Act makes it impossible for people in the state administration to operate in the listed leadership positions for those who actively participated in the enforcement and maintenance of this regime. It is not true that this applies only to St.B.'s co-workers. It concerns the officers of the StB, it concerns the functionaries of the KSČ, it concerns members of the People's Militia, it concerns the graduates of the high school in Moscow - I do not know exactly what it was called, so I apologize - and it also concerns the collaborators of StB. I think it would be a big mistake to allow these people to operate in the public sphere and in public services. Therefore, on behalf of our club, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies reject this law at first reading. And please, you - no, please, I'm asking! I strongly ask those who wish to abolish this law not to appeal to our consciences to keep the talk of conscience at the Communist meeting and first read the bill and then talk about conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have, for the general debate, the priority right of Vice-President Filip, the member of Farský and Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u8	Thank you. Madam President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will not quote, just to point out that the law, quoted here by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, adopted the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, which stated that it is a standard declaratory which does not create any new rights and new obligations that we can accept a lot of such declarations, but does not affect citizens' lives. What's the point? I was a young starting politician, elected by chance to the Federal Assembly, and I took part in the discussion of this bill. The essence of the original bill of illustration from the then federal government was that those who were guilty of their duties, whether they were in the apparatus of such or onake, against the laws of the Czech Republic, were to be affected against generally acceptable moral values. During the meeting at the Federal Assembly, this bill was given a completely different form. He was given a form that is based on the principle of registration, not activity. This means that whoever has been registered is therefore led in some volumes and it does not matter whether he did it or whether he was guilty or registered because he was a person guarded and, in a way, under the control of then State Security, whether for reasons of security state or economic. That's reality. In this respect, I must therefore say that a group of members of the Federal Assembly, but also trade unions, turned to the Constitutional Court of the CSFR, which abolished part of the law, to the International Labour Organisation and to the Council of Europe. [[16.20 hours]] In 1991 the then President of the Council of Europe, Mrs Lalumiereová, arrived in the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and demanded that the Government of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic be abolished or built on the principles of the rule of law, i.e. that a person will be judged not by where he is registered, but by what he did. The commitment given by the International Labour Organisation to the Government of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic has never been fulfilled and the Government of Václav Klaus, the Government of the Czech Republic has ignored this commitment since 1993. It was also allowed by the so-called The receptionist standard, in Act No.4/1993 Coll., Members of the then Czech National Council, who became the only legislators of the Czech Republic after its creation, only received some of the Federal Assembly standards into the Czech rule of law, and so on. The law on the general referendum, which was part of the Czechoslovak rule of law, has fallen out of the Czech rule of law since it was not appropriate at the time. Really, some who sat here in 1992 after the election and became e.g. Members of this House in this parliamentary term as well. I would therefore like to say that this law is, of course, contrary to European standards relating to discrimination between individuals, whether because of sex, faith, political conviction or political organisation, or ethnic belonging or social status. This has never succeeded here, and forgive me, not even such an institute as the Holy Year, which you all know at least from the famous film in which Jean Gabin plays, when in the Vatican in the chapel the walled doors will break down into all four sides and when after 25 years those who are banished by the church can become again its servants, even here today does not apply, as was evident from the appearance of the President of the ODS Club. So let's ask ourselves what this is for. It only serves to have a political instrument that allows a group or a certain political orientation to deal more easily with those who have a different political opinion because they do not have to talk about who did what, but where they were registered. That's reality. So let's face it, and let's act like it. I don't urge anyone to vote one way or another. I just consider it necessary to talk about what part of the democratic states in Europe and the European Union we are in order to behave accordingly in this Europe, accordingly towards these guaranteed, constitutionally guaranteed freedoms and rights. At least have the right to a different opinion from the other person, to be free to say it and not to have to look back on someone else's opinion. Yes, in this House, the majority will decide, as with all other laws. I believe that the majority that emerged from the elections know very well that de facto this law was rejected by citizens long ago. For one simple reason. Because at least against a few people sitting here, this argument was used. Whether it was proven or not proven, whether there was a court ruling or not, etc. And in spite of this argument, ventilated by the various media, these people were given confidence and entered the Chamber of Deputies. That's an indecisive and undisputable fact. Let us treat this by respecting only the will of the majority of 200 Members, or we will also look at the fact that the word Member is to send someone from that, i.e. that is a mandate from those who are the only source of power in the Czech Republic, and these are the citizens of the Czech Republic. In this respect, I will not argue in substance, for example, I will keep this for second reading, depending on how we will deal with this proposal at first reading. But in any case, if you want me to quote here the 1991 International Labour Organisation's decision in Geneva, as it did in the Czech and Slovak Federation Republic, we can try. If you want to know the position of international organisations such as the Council of Europe, such as organisations dealing with human rights, yes, we can quote them here. In any case, everyone according to their consciousness and conscience will have to deal with whether we will judge people and distinguish their status according to whether they are believers, unbelievers, they have a political orientation or not, and we will be reduced to a level that has always threatened real democracy in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have Mr Grospič with my due diligence and then with priority for the debate of Mr Kalousek, Mr Zaorálek, Members of Parliament, Mr Minister and then Mr Farský, Mr Seďa and Mrs Semelová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this law is perceived by the overwhelming majority of political clubs here in the Chamber of Deputies, of course, highly politically and pejoratively. And maybe this understanding gives a bit of a glimpse of the Constitution and the really dramatic effects that both the rendering laws, both large and small, bring to Czech society, and that contradiction, when the Czech Republic is unable to live up to its international commitments. But I would like to say here one moment and one thing and follow up, through Madam President, on the President of the ODS club, Mr Stanjura, when he so much referred to the law on the legality and opposition of the Communist regime, so I would like to say to him that he should also perceive that the rendering laws preceded this law and that this law was adopted in the Czech Parliament after two years, as illustration laws should apply for a limited period of time. And the rendering laws had a fixed period, set as the basis for their validity. It was only the political representation in 2000 that decided not to limit their validity. This is a highly discriminatory moment for us, and we therefore present this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies that this discrimination should be removed from the legal order of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u11	Thank you, Member, and please Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip recalled here how, as a young Member of the Federal Assembly, he participated in the discussion, and he believes that the intention of the then lawmakers, whether the government or the legislator in the discussion of the Federal Assembly, was to somehow punish those involved in the secret repressive component of the Communist regime and in similar positions. I, as a somewhat younger federal official, remember the discussion very well and, after all, I refer to each and every one of you, it is digitized, it can be found very easily, on the Internet you will find a parliamentary discussion about the Illustration Law, which was submitted by the then Federal Minister of the Interior Langoš. And I am absolutely sure that the motive of both the petitioner and those legislators who then voted for this law was not punishment, it was not revenge, it was not punishment, but quite ordinary protection of democratic society. That was the basic reason, and it also pulled like a red thread of the whole discussion. [[16.30 hours]] There is a need to protect a democratic society here, because it was beyond any democratic, political control very dangerous and highly operational agency network. This, of course, ceased to serve exclusively the regime by changing the regime, but this does not mean that it fell apart. In some parts, in some elements, she continued to function, to communicate, to continue to act, even less, of course. And it is not at all possible that in its individual segments it can in some way be operational today. How intense this problem is not only in the Czech Republic, we can see, for example, in the example of the Federal Republic of Germany, where they recently extended a similar standard by six years, which protects German society from former East German Stasi agents. There is a very burning question here: Who are those people who made a secret commitment to the signature that many of them are denying today, but if they did, who will be more loyal if they reach public office? Your promise to a public official, or to those who were promised something at the time? It's not just a question of loyalty, it's a question of extortion. Please take how many volumes are incomplete. How many were partially shredded. Or maybe they weren't shredded. Or somebody's got the documents. And the person who gets into a public position in that case is terribly blackmailable because there is just somebody out there who can easily prove that he was an active collaborator, that he was doing something if not criminal, so extremely immoral, and that he may be completely openly and completely lying about his past. The risk of extortion is so great that the legislature decided not to take it. I understand that in individual cases, it can be felt as an injustice. But entitlement to a public office isn't dictatorial. And society has a right to protect itself. I don't have a mandatory right, if I have jaundice, to work in public food. It's just not discrimination. The regulation of this sector protects consumers from being infected with hepatitis. And here the legislature protected a democratic society from being able to take public office and exercise the powers vested in it by law, perhaps in ties to an ex-crime and repressive structure. This is the protection of a democratic society. It's not revenge. Nobody's judging, no one's judging. We simply protect ourselves from those who served, and some may still serve those for whom democracy was not the fundamental value. There is certainly no time to disturb this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another registered priority right is Minister Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I actually remember the time that Miroslav Kalousek was talking about after the revolution. And I remember that there was a really big fear at the time that those structures of the previous regime, the structures of State Security, eventually agents attached to them, would be applying for a job in those new conditions. And I even remember examples of it actually happening. And I've actually experienced myself in Ostrava that those former agents were trying to become part of the structures of the newly emerging Civil Forum. Then we gradually exposed them, and we were often very shocked by who we worked next to. So I remember the atmosphere of those years, and I can imagine in retrospect that they were trying to face it in some way. And I can even understand backwards that it seems difficult to prevent those experiments from being perfect and that, of course, they suffered from imperfections, limited experience, and the ability to find appropriate tools at that time. So I don't want to be militant about it. On the other hand, in that time and over the years of the operation of this law, of course... I have repeatedly learned that the law really is imperfect. And if I were to tell you today what the basic imperfection is, she's simply saying that the decision about this person and whether he's going to be in a public office is derived from the simple record that was made by the State Security, which, as we know, was quite a disgusting organization. And over the years, I've had the opportunity to meet some cases that I don't think it's appropriate to name here. But there was one case in the area of diplomatic services. The guy who was supposed to sign the ligature act or whatever it was called, he refused. In fact, it was a pretty heroic act at the time that he did it. Anyway, the security signed him up anyway. He registered it and the result was that he then in the 1990s had to leave his post. Mr Kalousek here says it's no tragedy, it's just a public service. But I remember that I understood it at the time because I was able to judge this case, I knew how it really was, so I felt it was a pretty big injustice to a person. When someone who actually acted bravely was punished for it. And based on the record of an organization that was actually criminal. That's a paradox. I knew several such cases in Brno, where I was familiar with them. I was studying there then, so I knew a lot of people there, and I was surprised how many cases there were. So don't be mad at me that you start to think that it's actually similar to that of communism when we judge people on such a flat rate, based on some dead letter, which can often even be faked. And I've enjoyed enough socialism for people to judge collectively. For example, for being a Catholic family, you had written in the materials that you should not study and come into contact with people or anything like that. So this flat-rate assessment of people by something, almost as a principle of collective guilt, was characteristic of this very regime. So even though I admit it wasn't easy to face it, and to give a standard to deal with the past, and often one realizes how almost impossible it is to deal with the past fairly, because she's complicated, especially in those individual destinies. But do you understand how one should answer that the individual fates are then trampled? That then we have individual cases that are obviously unfair? It's because they're based only on the dumb record. And there's actually no review. You just don't have the illustration, and suddenly this guy's in an unfair position. So it seems to me from the distance of those years when I evaluate that this is not part of a democratic society, and I am saying that right now in the name of protecting individuals, freedom and the rights of man. Because she's not really a free and democratic society unless it really applies to everyone. If it's that we say, "in these people, we're gonna be kind of above things, if there's some kind of splinter going down, we're just gonna be okay with it," it's something that bothers us - you know? - absolutely fundamentally. Because either that freedom, the protection of human rights applies to everyone, or it doesn't apply to anyone. So I'm saying it, and I'm trying to say it in a way that's not militant because I remember that time, and I know how worried they were back then and how scared we were. And that's why I get it. But today, when the time just progressed, it feels like we're a little different. And I'm sorry, we're also a little different from the point of view of that time. I don't know how it would have turned out at the Constitutional Court today if someone had put it in the Constitutional Court and if they had judged the danger, the threat to state security today. Because then, you have to admit, the situation was far more acute than it is today. That time just goes by and things change. [[16.40 hours]] And what bothers me about this debate is that it seems to me that today in this country, I think we are really threatened by a whole bunch of groups - I don't know, financial, lobbyist, and even octopus, in my opinion, which are actually criminal today. And I'm sorry to say that I think there are really more dangerous octopuses here today than this old one, which I myself swear to you, I was scared back then too. I also thought it was something that threatened the new company. And today, in over 20 years, I feel differently. There are just dangerous structures here today, criminal structures. But to think that the main thing today is what sets up State Security records, I find it almost naive today. We've moved on in time. And if we're seriously talking about threatening the security of the state, then I think maybe if we gave it to the Constitutional Court, he would tell us that it just won't hold up. That this isn't that character. And I also think that the Constitutional Court could not agree with the imbalance that is involved. That we're just creating a group of people here who don't have all the rights, and I repeat, based on an organization that I think was criminal. It was just illegal. That is why I consider the arguments raised and mentioned in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms to be serious today. And that's actually why I performed here in 2001 when this debate took place. I just haven't changed my mind. I have it today. And I'm not saying this here because I'm coming from some communist meeting, but because I'm trying to rationally judge this thing in the flow of time. So that's why I'm skeptical of the form of the rendering law and I say - yes, we have to protect the state, we have to look for ways to protect its security, but let's not do this in ways that ultimately deny the principle of protection of individuals, human rights and freedom. And it must be protected by every individual. I don't think the law's holding. And I'm saying, I understand the revolutionary times after 1990, but I don't think we can make excuses for that anymore today. Today we are in a different time, and if we use similar standards, they must simply correspond to democratic society and the protection of the rights of each individual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u15	Thank you, Minister. Furthermore, I have here for the general debate with the priority right of Mr Fiala, following Mr Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak on the issue of illustrations any more, and I have spoken on this very often, and I am publishing my views on this in the media, but what Minister Zaorálek has said here is simply to stand up for this speaker stand again, leading and forcing me. I will also try to speak rationally and without any emotions, as he did. It is simply not acceptable, it really is not acceptable, and we cannot play this game to compare the dangers and pressures that people have been exposed to under the Communist regime, which has been a totalitarian dictatorship, to some dangers facing a free society, and to some restrictions faced by a man in a democratic society. The fact that I do not have the right to perform certain functions is standard from a democratic society's point of view, if it is based on legal order. But what is totally unacceptable from all possible points of view is that in dictatorship my existence is threatened, that I cannot do a profession, that I cannot study, that I cannot express my opinion freely. After all, this is a completely different way of existence and existential threat than the restrictions we face in a democratic society. And I strongly and fundamentally refuse to make this comparison on the ground of the democratic Parliament. That's shameful! And if MEPs for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia are doing this, I still understand. But if it is really disturbing to relativize the past, what has been happening here under the Communist regime, Members of the democratic parties are in this way, ladies and gentlemen, and I call on all of you not to play this game because of the very utilitarian political objectives, because you are touching some of the essential issues on which our democratic society is based. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. It is not true that the dangers that led us to adopt the rendering laws are different today than they were after November 1989. The danger was not that any external power would seize us again and rule here. The dangers at that time and now were the same and lie in the fact that there are individuals who, for various reasons, succumbed to pressure and failed in a key cause and violated even those standards that the Communist then considered acceptable - or society in the communist regime. And from these people, from the performance of the public functions of these people, we are protected by the laws of illustration. And their meaning will pass only when the generations that could have succumbed to this pressure under the Communist regime will not be here. And so it is, and until then, the rendering law should apply, it must apply. And I think it's our duty to keep it in force. But even if you had a different opinion about it, it is - and I would go back to what I started - unacceptable to relativize the communist past and compare the dangers and pressures of the Communist dictatorship with what is happening in a democratic society. Before that, ladies and gentlemen, let us really warn ourselves, and for utilitarian reasons, let us not make these simple parallels here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u17	Thank you. I see your priority right, Mr rapporteur, then yours, Mr President, but I have two factual points to make. The first is Mr. Opálka, who signed up in writing, then it is Mr. Jandák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to respond through Madam President to the President of the ODS. I don't think this is about relativizing the past at all. Here and the public in the elections have shown a real approach to the present. When the president of the ODS club read the wording of the law, I imagined exactly how the same law could be written today and how the disabled would be found, not only unemployed, but also those who committed suicide. Which I suppose, if it's for social reasons, is the murder of this regime. I think we'd be involved in very complex systems. I understand when someone talks about their point of view, yes, it's right-wing, it's left-wing, I don't think we can convince each other, and it depends on which side the majority will be on. I think most of the company has already decided in the election. If we support this law, that's really up to you. But confusing dictatorship with totalitarianism is also a little weird from a political point of view with a political scientist. Yes, there was a period, perhaps dictatorships, in history we'll get them, and the deeper and deeper into history. The totalitarian regime, of course, has its negatives, but, you know, it's sometimes political, and sometimes it's totalitarian money. Of course, people see the totality of money in their majority today. So let us learn from this debate, when out of nothing else, at least in that we should, if possible, serve not only our narrow interests, but the interests of the whole society so that the satisfaction is such that no one forces them to repressive forces, but also the economic situation that they do not want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u19	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up. Thank you. Another enrollment with Mr Jandák in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I have a feeling that my previous speakers are here to convince the convinced and not convince the unconvinced. You know, this is the problem that it's not a question of party jurisdiction. I think it's also a matter of personal experience. I am a Social Democrat, and yet I will join the motion to reject this law, because I feel that this law should apply even further. But I feel that we should reach out to the proposal that fell from the opponent here to vote first on who is in favour of the rejection. And then maybe we'll move on. But other than that, it's beating up empty straw. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another one registered with the facts is President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr Opálka showed exactly what the chairman of my political party warned about. He and I are from Opava. There is a memorial plaque at Opava City Hall for General Heliodor Píka, who was executed by the Communist regime - executed! A man who faithfully served the interests of the Czechoslovak Republic. I don't know where you get the courage to compare it to the present. I don't know. And I'm not surprised if the communists say so. However, I think that other democratic parties and democratic forces should reject this unitedly. Because we have different views on tax, social, health systems and the like, that is perfectly natural and legitimate, but rejecting the totalitarian past, that we do not want to change the view, that should connect us to others. If you look at the results of the elections you've just talked about, fortunately, the communists haven't reached much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u23	Thank you. With another factual fact, Mr Plzák is registered. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak up, and I hope to vote in favour of rejecting this proposal, but I wanted to say something. The Communist Party of Czechoslovakia was designated a criminal organization, so its officials were basically criminals, if I take it briefly. My grandparents have been devastated by this party's family business, which they've been building for decades, so we have personal experience in the family. But it was announced that someone who had been listed somewhere had failed. Why didn't those who actively signed the application become members of this criminal organization fail anyway? And why wasn't our society protected from them after the revolution? It's because they're on your side, they're on these sides, they're on all sides. Even such a great communist as Senator Kubera was a official at the Sklounion in Teplice. So I think that we should vote and I would not continue to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As there is no other factual point, please the rapporteur. [[Dissenting voices from the right.]] The rapporteur shall have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u26	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to take advantage of my position as rapporteur to deliver my views, but now I want to speak in particular in the situation and after the speech of Vice-President Zaorálek, or today a member of the Government of Mr Zaorálek. I'd almost say it's a story about how the Communists caught Mr. Zaorálek in their trap. [[Jolly in the ranks of Members of the KSČM.]] Because we're not even talking about state security agents here. If the Communist Party came here to release letter (b) from the relevant provisions of the rendering law, then perhaps there is a bit of a whiny debate of Mr. Zaorálek quite legitimate. I would not agree with it, because I think it is not true that it is a record that we have repeatedly experienced a review of the courts of these quotes and we will probably experience one more in this year, and maybe it will be quite important for this country, because someone claims that it has been registered wrongly, and maybe it will turn out that it has been registered quite rightly, but then perhaps this debate would be interesting. But what the Communist Party officials are suggesting here doesn't concern State Security agents at all. It concerns the legitimisation of the entire regime, the declaration that everything, as we have tried here in 25 years with the Communist regime, its minions to settle and its rulers to say: you have committed crimes on this country, even in the last 20 years you have committed them in cooperation with the occupying army, so all of this today the Communist Party wants to cross off. Since there are far from just agents, there are all members of State Security, all the top representatives of the Communist Party, representatives of the Armored Fist of the Communist Party of the People's Militia and students of Russian universities. Let's not forget that! If we want to hold this debate, let us lead it completely, because what wants to be cancelled, and what you have to vote on today, is the development of the Communist Party and its armed forces out of responsibility for the years 1948 to 1989. And I can never vote for that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u27	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr. Schwarzenberg's priority right, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u28	Madam President, honourable Members, I do not like to talk about this subject, because I had the immense advantage of having been taken abroad by my parents at the ripe age of ten years, and therefore I have not experienced this time here, not living here, but visiting my country occasionally, and therefore I have not been tempted, nor have I experienced any real pressure. That's why I don't like to talk about it. But at that time I lived, as I know, in Austria and studied in Germany. And I admit there's a difference. I remember that I studied at the University of Munich when all the students then rebelled against the fact that lawyers - lawyers only, not Gestapo agents - were employed in the public sphere or acted in politics. Then, a few years later, I experienced this in Austria, when there were great demonstrations against the appearance of people who, say, had an unclear attitude toward the Third Reich in college. These nations evidently agreed to cope with their past. The idea that, say, in the Federal Republic of Germany, a known Gestapo agent admitted that he was applying for public office is unimaginable. That's what I have to say. We owe this to the education that Američan, Angličan, and Francouz in Germany performed at the age of 30. Unfortunately, it didn't happen with us. But if shame no longer prevents former agents from applying for public office, we should at least, with forgiveness, have a law to prevent it. The law isn't perfect. I remember when it was created. It's not perfect. It should be repaired. I'd agree with that. But to abolish the exclusion of people from public life. I can be an honest businessman, a businessman, a craftsman I want. But in public office, someone working with the secret police is a disgrace to my country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I beg you, duly signed up for Mr Farský's debate, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the long debate and the contributions that have been made at the last extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, it is difficult to add. But for me, it is necessary to comment on this. I would also like to add, on behalf of the club, to the motion for rejection, which was made by the ODS. Before the extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies last time, I would be almost certain that such a press cannot go through the House, that the motion to reject here will in any event find support and that the debate that will take place here and we will relativize the communist regime and its crime will become a kind of memento for the entire term. But to be honest, after the emergency meeting, I'm not so sure anymore, which is why I want to add that voice here. As a relatively young man, I was 11 years old in 1989... ten years old when the Communist regime fell... That's how I remember. I remember the atmosphere, I remember the streets, I remember how limited life was, how for me the borders were a moat that can't be overcome, and where there is a wall that can only be crossed by bridges and gates that are built there. In this way, the communist regime could fit into my mind. It is important for me that this law should remain effective because it excludes from the executive state power persons who have bent over who, in the interests of their personal benefit, have bent over one regime. And it is good for me that people who once lost their face and raised their personal gain above the level of their conscience are denied access to the functions they wish to direct us. Why is this press interesting to me, and this rejection isn't as automatic for me as I would have imagined if this extraordinary meeting hadn't taken place? Because it will be interesting to me how the current coalition that passed the Civil Service Act here at the emergency meeting, which was a senseless pretext set by the President, and that senseless brigade at the nonsense meeting was granted... Thus the pretext served to make one person the chosen one. The one who won't need a craftsmanship anymore. And for me, it will be very interesting how the coalition, which I would expect to vote as one man to reject this proposal, will stand up to not having such a clear position after the last meeting, when one person who would never receive a demonstration certificate has moved into one of the highest constitutional positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u31	I thank you and please make a point of fact by Mr Stanjura. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u32	I won't even need two minutes. I think... At least for us and I think it is very important for many to vote on the proposal to reject this law in the first reading. I see that at the moment neither the Prime Minister nor the Vice Prime Minister is in the room, so let me take a two-hour break on behalf of the ODS MP and allow the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister to take part in the vote when it comes to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-013-017.u33	Okay. So I'm interrupting the meeting for two hours based on the request of the ODS Club and I'll meet you at 7:03 p.m. [[Noise and disapproval between Members.]] [[The hearing shall be suspended from 17.03 to 17.05 hours.]] Gentlemen of the House and Members of the House, I ask for peace of mind. We are therefore interrupting the meeting until 9 o'clock tomorrow morning, when we will continue the negotiations at this point. Thank you. [[After a while.]] I'm sorry again. I take back what I said. Tomorrow we'll continue with the fixed points. Thank you.
