ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u1	134. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of five responses were submitted to the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies for which the Members were not satisfied and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it nor shall it be further discussed. And so now we'd like to proceed to each interpellation. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka responded to Mrs Pěnčíková's interpelation on the forestation activities of engineer Gunnar Grabowský. Interpelation together with the response shall be presented as printing of 326. The discussion of the response has been suspended. I am opening the debate and I see Mrs Pěnčíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u2	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, your response to my written interview convinced me that the specific problem I described is a problem not only for the State Agricultural Intervention Fund but also for the specific departments of your ministry. I fully understand that it is not within your time-limits to deal with each individual case, so I assume that you have only added your signature to the answer that your officials have prepared for you without further examining the problem, but that is why I am forced to draw your attention to this issue. The text of the answer seems to me more like an attempt at a stupid joke. If SZIF workers actually go to check the condition of the bowler in November and if they consider the replacement of the enveloped seed to be unindicted, which is at least ten times cheaper, a minor deviation in the implementation of the project, then I take the impression that something bad is happening in the Czech and SZIF countries in particular. The idea of what money is paid by SZIFEM and how it is subsequently controlled scares me - to put it mildly. In this case, the Czech environmental inspection has repeatedly highlighted suspicion of non-compliance with the subsidy rules and SZIF has not found any. It's too bad he won't even find the supposed trees that have been on these grounds for several years. I've been intersecting you on one particular case. Unfortunately, this is far from an isolated case. I really understand that you can't solve every single case, but if your officials normally distribute the subsidy funds in the same way, then either you have to make the correction, or it will be necessary for European supervisory authorities to intervene, which we all really love in our country. I wanted to draw your attention to this problem with this interview. I understand that SZIF may not be able to do more than that, but if SZIF personnel get their hands on a specific example, such as the Czech Environmental Inspection initiative, which certainly does not have a job description of making fun of SZIF employees, they should at least deal with these cases properly. I have a very specific question for you, and what you really intend to do about it so that such errors do not occur. And, of course, I'm going to want the House to disagree with the response to my interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u3	The Minister wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u4	Good morning, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members. Of course, I'm dealing with this thing because there's a lot more of these incentives than yours, so I've been working very hard on this issue. I am aware that often officials at the State Agricultural Intervention Fund as well as some officials at the Ministry of Agriculture may make it easier for them to take C - ctrl V and to give a simple answer without having to complicate their lives. Of course, I am aware that at that moment there is some possible room for error, and we will be dealing with our audit and supervision department, both in relation to the SZIF, which is, let's say, our own intervention fund, although we are its founder, to change this situation so that we are able to cross-check what the situation really is. [[9.10 hours]] On the other hand, I must say that in the case of aforestation, there was a big problem in setting up the methodology that modified the grant title, adjusting its control during implementation, and this methodology, let's say, had relatively large deaf places in relation to practice. When some seedlings dried up etc., at that point the officials acted strictly according to the methodology, from our point of view, say, healthy common sense sometimes rigidly, and there were many problems. We also suspect that somebody had benefited from the forest subsidies, but the implementation was very dubious. I am aware of this issue even after your interpellation, but even after I have become familiar with several specific cases, we are looking for a solution to remedy the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u5	Mrs Pěnčíková wishes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u6	Of course, thank you very much for your answer. This is gratifying because this is a problem that has been going on since your predecessors, and it needs to be dealt with systemically, because there are a lot of cases, as you say. It's not just this one, there's really more of them, I won't blame it here, but you can go around the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, the workers will definitely recommend you. Anyway, I'm gonna ask the House to disagree so I can get your answer back in writing, and I'm sure I'll keep an eye on the cases, check them, and maybe I'll turn back in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u7	Thank you, too. I will ask if anyone else wants to speak in the debate. If this is not the case, I am closing the debate and Mrs Pěnčíková has already announced that she is asking the House to disagree with the Minister's reply. This is the motion for a resolution, as presented by Mrs Pěnčíková. I'll ring my co-workers. So we're going to vote. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the reply of the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, to Mrs Pěnčíková's interpelation.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 23, registered is 100, for 36, against 50, this proposal has not been adopted. We'll continue with the next interpellation. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation with regard to the appeal of Director General Povodí Odry. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 338. The examination of the reply was also suspended. I am opening a debate to which Mr Stanjura is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u8	Thank you for the floor. Before I go into a specific written interview, I would like to ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to arrange for the Prime Minister to respond to written interpelations. The Chamber of Deputies did not approve the written reply of former Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař during the second or third week of September. Today we have December 4th and to this day no one from the Ministry of Transport has responded. The fact that the Minister is not there for 14 days now is no reason for this, because the legal deadline has long passed. I'd do it before the program, but I didn't want to stall. I think it is unacceptable for the House of Deputies to decide by its vote that it is not satisfied with the answer so that the new answer does not come. I ask the Prime Minister to set things straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u9	Thank you for the warning and I will address the Prime Minister by letter and point out that the law needs to be followed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u10	Thank you. And now to the question of interpellation. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister to the Chamber of Deputies. He was here yesterday for 20 minutes, said his five sentences and ran away again. I hope he's gonna be here a little longer today. I am saying this because I submitted the interview on 28 August and received the reply on 28 September within a legal period, since there have been many negotiating days when there have been written interpelations and the Minister has not been here. I have quite a lot of background here, so let me be a little bit longer, I won't be as helpful as my predecessor at the first written interview. The problem is that I asked the Minister quite briefly why the General Director of the Odry basin was dismissed. Instead of replying honestly - at least I import from all his procedures before and after the appeal - instead of actually replying: I wanted to have my man there, preferably from KDU-ČSL, which is why I needed to get rid of the current CEO, so I could not say anything. I might not like it, but the Minister has every right. He could've done that. That's how he gave me the training that I didn't want at all, what a state enterprise is, how a state enterprise works, what a supervisory board has the powers of the Supervisory Board, and the only sentence he tried to answer for an appeal is the sentence that insults the former CEO, who is general, which can always be used because he is not documented. It is a general statement - I took a tablet to appreciate it: "In the case of the Odry basin, based on many information about non-optimum communication" - non-optimum communication - "Director Krajíček against subordinates, Ministry and self-government proceeded to his appeal." He doesn't say what information he got the information from and what it's optimal and what it's an optimized communication. Then I'll describe the problem he was in. The Director-General was unwilling to follow the instructions of the First Deputy Minister of Agriculture. So it has to be written: he did not comply with the wishes of the First Deputy Minister of Agriculture, which is why I called him off. I wouldn't agree with that again, but it would be fair. If it's optimal communication that the CEO, who is responsible for a very important business, doesn't listen to the personnel instructions of someone who has no responsibility for this business, it's really an optimous communication. I'd say that's the perversion of this deputy. Nothing more, nothing less. When I learned from the website that the tender was ongoing, I convinced the director that he had been removed, I turned to Mr. Kendík's relevant Deputy Minister of Agriculture. Sometime before I submitted an interpellation, between August 20th and 25th. Mr. Secretary, make your peace with the Ministry! Your deputy hasn't answered me to this day. Maybe if the Minister hadn't signed up and listened to me, he would've... I'll wait. [[Minister from his post: I'm listening.]] It seems unusual to me that the Deputy Minister, a member of the Government who answers to the Chamber of Deputies, does not simply answer a decent question, written by a member of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not gonna interpret phone excuses when I had it rushed. Apparently, the relevant deputy was afraid to answer. So I asked at the same time that we could confront different approaches. I found on the website who is chairman of the supervisory board of this state enterprise. It happens to be the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Social Democrat. We are in opposition there and have a rather fierce opposition policy against him. Unlike the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, the Governor actually answered my question, and I will quote you from his answer because I actually asked the same questions to both of them. Because before I intersected the Minister, I wanted to be clear from those in charge of this matter or functionally... [[He's looking in the background.]] Before I find it, I'll go somewhere else. Basically, when I sum up, the chairman of the Supervisory Board said to me: During the entire period of operation of the former Director-General today, the company had excellent economic results. During the entire period of operation of the former Director-General, the Supervisory Board has not once found any comment to apply to the Director-General. According to the information available to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, not once did the Director General fail to follow the instructions of the founder, the Ministry of Agriculture. I mean, there have been 24 checks in total since the Director-General worked there. You can see how it works in our control system. In three years, 24 inspections will take place in a state enterprise. I've got on me, I won't burden you with it, basically, all the controls have come in handy. [[9.20 hours]] The Minister likes to talk about the fact that he, as a farmer, likes to check the facts first, on the basis of the fact that he decides. I like this approach. I think it's the right approach that a person should have facts, not just rumors or just headlines and make decisions based on that. So my question is, Mr. Secretary, who and what information about the optimized communication of the former CEO gave you? Second question: Did you ask the Chairman of the Supervisory Board how satisfied he was with the Director-General's work? Did you study the board's minutes, find anything you could blame the Director-General for? Third: How would you evaluate the company's economic results under the leadership of the former Director-General? I'd go a little further. The Minister of Agriculture has issued an open tender, when in the first round, I do not know, it was more than ten applicants, the commission has selected three candidates for oral interviews. By chance, by no means, two of them are members of KDU-ČSL. This means, on the Odry basin has the largest experts party KDU-ČSL. I know it's been said for years that it's their business, that there's always a folklore sitting there, and it's weird when someone else is sitting there, but it's been done pretty intelligently. One folklore was from inside the business, one from outside. By the way, a failed candidate in the municipal elections in my hometown. And I'm afraid he was the source of the information on non-optimum communication. And of the three, and that is the probability, of the three, was again coincidentally chosen by chance by a true member of the KDU-ČSL party, who was appointed as CEO. However, there is no way I want to question his competence, so we understand each other. Let's see how the new CEO does. I personally have access to the fact that when someone is appointed to office, I don't evaluate them in advance, I wait for some period in which they can rationally evaluate their results. All I care about is the hypocrisy and the search for alternative reasons. That without a doubt, and in that answer, it's written by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture has the right to replace the Director General. I am, of course, from the territory or from the Moravian-Silesian Region, where the Odry basin is, without a doubt, an important enterprise that communicates very often with self-government. I had the chance, as mayor of Opava, to work with several CEOs. And when there's actually an exchange in the top management, we just have to ask. [[unintelligible]] The Minister's answer is simply alibiistic, not saying anything. The only reason - non-optimum communication. As the Minister does not go to the Chamber of Deputies, we could also say that there is an optimal communication between the Chamber of Deputies and the Minister of Agriculture. Because we can't communicate when you're not here, then it can't be optimal communication. I'll go back to why the director was actually called off. Because the first Deputy Minister of Agriculture, who doesn't really have it in his mind, but that's the family that has a pretty strong position there with you, Minister, at the Ministry, wanted to intervene in the tender for the race director. For those who do not live in any water catchment area, apart from the Director-General, there are individual water catchment areas. That's where he ended up, I think, because of his retirement, the current race director and the CEO wanted to put out a tender between the company's employees. He had rational reasons for that. When I asked him why from inside the business, not from outside, he said it could be an outsider, but his professional guess is that the difference between the experience inside and outside is like two years before he gets to the level of knowledge of who's inside. [[unintelligible]] That the man must know very well the situation in the water catchment area, he must know very well the flows, he must know very well the integrated rescue plans, he must know very well the personnel, material and other sources of the enterprise, such as the Odry basin and the like. On this point, there was quite a confrontational meeting between the First Deputy Minister and the Director General. The CEO insisted and said: Well, if you want me to change it - because the first deputy insisted on open and open competitions and my experience, unfortunately, is that if anyone insists on open competitions like this, I already know the winner in advance. It's someone from the outside, and I need to put it in those structures. And we will very well monitor who will become director of the Flood, virtually. If by any chance he is not a member of the political party KDU-ČSL. But the CEO says, Mr. First Deputy, if you want it, give it to me in writing. Give me this instruction in writing, I'll file it in my business, and I'll comply. But that was not what Mr. First Deputy did, and after about three weeks, the Director General was summoned to the Ministry of Agriculture, and there he was notified by the Minister of Appeal. I wanted to get some details out of the Director-General when I'm writing my interview, he didn't give it to me because he basically doesn't know why he was called off. So I asked the Minister of Agriculture. So let me get this straight. The first deputy had a staffing requirement, the CEO failed to comply, he was dismissed, he was newly appointed a member of the KDU-ČSL. I mean, the former CEO was certainly a man who had a wealth of professional experience. I hear especially from this government about how the experts, other experts, and so on. He is a person who participated in the construction of the last dam in the Czech Republic of Silesian Harty. He is a man who participated in the construction of the water pumping plant Dlouhá Strána. He is a man who participated in the great reconstruction of Morávek's waterworks. He is a man who has a wealth of experience from the very field and which he could apply in the management of this important company at the moment he is preparing, and I firmly hope as a citizen of the Moravian-Silesian Region that we will see it, a dam in Nové Heřmínovy. I say, if the minister confessed and said fair and square, I wanted my man there, I wouldn't even be here. But the fact that he's actually dehonesting the former CEO by talking about non-optimum communication... I asked the mayors in our region. You say he wasn't optimally communicating with the authorities. Give me one or two specific cases of a particular city, a particular mayor, in which he was not satisfied with the operation of the Odry basin. I get it from the founder. That's where your first deputy is dissatisfied. I understand that. I'll find a statement from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, if you answer me, and I'll bring it to you in the papers in black and white. And I say, it's a social democrat with whom I personally and many of my colleagues have a rather sharp political struggle, so there's no reason to assume that from some good acquaintance he'll write a positive assessment and so on. So I think what happens here again is that something is said - transparent, open, experts - and something else is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u11	The Minister wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u12	Thank you. There have been a few questions, and there have been a few half-truths, and I have to respond to them in some way. In the event of my appeal to the Director General of the Odry basin, the economic results of the Odry basin were not involved. I don't think what you're saying here is what it is. Firstly, I would strongly object to your comments on the fact that there is a family in my ministry. I have the first deputy Jirsa there today, his wife isn't working there, and she didn't work there when I was dealing with the General Director of the Oder. So, Mr President, I would like to ask for misrepresentation of information here. If you're using them, tell me from when to when and if the condition is today. Then it's a little tacky. Then I have to say, I've never treated it that way. I've inherited officials from the ministry where my mother and daughter work, there are husbands, father and son, and I don't see anything problematic about it. If we should see this as a problem in the administration, then let's talk about it if it's a problem. And I wouldn't even like to say, and I think it's okay, too, if your brother was also in a state-owned establishment, I don't see any problem with that either. I have decided to call off the Director General and it is full of the Minister's right, because the Minister is responsible for the businesses that fall under his authority, and for the people who lead them. The trial was such that a tender was to be issued for the position of director of one of the races. Mr. First Deputy said very politely with the Director General that he would like this tender to be put out as open. [[9.30 hours]] He was communicating with the Director General of the Odry Flood and he told him that he had an internal regulation that wouldn't allow it. I have asked through Mr. First Deputy, under whom the water catchment area belongs, because it is managed by the founding department, which is under Mr. First Deputy, that I would like the regulation to be adjusted and that we should proceed openly. Because I don't see anything wrong with someone inside a business that's good enough to sign up for an open competition, and maybe even across the water catchment area, and make sure he's the best, and succeed. The logic of the thing that you used here, that we wanted to put out a tender for this position because we have someone, so I can turn it around just as much if I were thinking like you, and say, The CEO didn't want to do it because he had someone on the inside again. So I really reject these arguments. Please take a good look at the number of tenders I've put out. Including top managers of the Forests of the Czech Republic. And then judge if there's any higher percentage of someone who's from KDU-ČSL. I learned that Mr. Pagáč was a member of the KDU-ČSL until two days before I signed the decree with him. [[Disagree or doubt intersecting in the bench. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek from his place:]] That's right. So you can think what you want about it, but if, and now, I want to say the important thing, if the CEO said first to Mr. First Deputy... I would ask you, Mr President, I was just looking at the papers here, and you have already accused me of not listening, so now I am speaking to you, so I will be grateful for your attention. [[Stanjuro]] If he and the first deputy agreed to turn it into an open tender, I must say that I had a personal meeting with the first Deputy Director. Mr. Director General of the Odry basin told me to my face that he would not write an open tender for the position of director of the race! That was a key moment when I decided to just call him off. He must have sensed from the situation that the situation was progressing during the negotiations, however, he simply insisted on his own, and the communication at that moment was rather heated. So it was just my decision, and I have full responsibility for it, and I believe that the new Director General, who, moreover, has worked on the water catchment area and water management since the university and the Povodí Odry has practically been an employee for 20 years, proving that Odry is able to drive very well. If he doesn't, I don't care what political party he's from, I'll just call him off. And I went to the Ministry anyway. Even the director of the department, who came with the minister, after six months, when I found out he wasn't working the way he was supposed to, I called him off. I really measure all the same subway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u13	Mr Stanjura, Mr Bendl is reporting for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u14	You haven't answered my questions, Minister, except for one. And that's where we agree. He didn't listen to the CEO of your first deputy, so you called him off. I didn't question it at all. [[Vice-President Bělobrádek from the bench: Minister! Minister Jurečka from the place: Me!]] Or the minister. He was responsible for the business. Nothing to it, and I clearly said I wouldn't evaluate the new CEO until it was time, and I didn't say he was gonna be a bad CEO. Then don't put it in my mouth. I said it was a coincidence that two out of three were your members. [[unintelligible]] That's all I said. I didn't compare other businesses, I didn't do statistics. There was no reason. I am interested in this, I live in this region, and I did not want to make it a general question of all the tenders that you have written or not published. However, I asked if you asked the Chairman of the Supervisory Board how the director worked. Or is it that whoever dares to stand up to the minister is flying? That's how you built it. I know about it! I even said the CEO refused to do it. I didn't say any new information. And we're in agreement. We both described the same deed in the same words. Or in almost the same words. I found the paper. "The Supervisory Board did not have Ing during its entire operation. Miroslav Krajíček as Director General of the Oder basin is the only reservation. The Director-General has always performed the assigned tasks 100% and has regularly recommended to the founder of the Supervisory Board the full remuneration paid to the Director-General in accordance with the set directive. Economic results were always positive under the role of CEO Krajíček. More specifically, in 2011, 12,721 million. profit, in 2012 15,247 million. and 16,603 miles in 2013.' That means every year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u15	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u16	And the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Governor continues: "As for the cooperation between the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Regional Authority with the Odry basin, I must say that it was completely smooth and professional. I particularly appreciate cooperation in the field of crisis management, when Chief Executive Officer Krajíček was an active participant in the meeting of the Security Council of the Region and, in particular, the Flood Commission. So much for your questions," says the Governor and Chairman of the Supervisory Board. "As for the appeal itself, I must state, even following my answers above..." [[A distraction to get attention.]] I'll say it again: "So much for your questions. As far as the appeal is concerned, I must state, even in the light of your questions above, that I personally, whether in the position of Chairman of the Supervisory Board or in the position of Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, did not find a single reason for this act. However, I respect the right of the Founder to take decisions in the field of personnel. However, I expect, like you, that the new CEO, who will emerge from the competition, will be at least as efficient as his predecessor, because the Odry basin plays not only an important role in the light of the Czech Republic's water management policy, but also an important and important partner of the Moravian-Silesian Region." This means that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board notes that they did not have a single reservation at all times, all the tasks assigned to the Supervisory Board were fulfilled by the Director-General. The Supervisory Board has always proposed a full remuneration in accordance with the guidelines of the Founder. [[unintelligible]] If you would have written to me: I have called off the CEO because he has not granted my wish, I am not here again! I didn't question your right, and I talked about it in my first performance. I didn't question your right to trade! I was really upset about the answer that said "non-optimum communication with self-government." I asked you to finish it. I asked a question, one or two examples of self-government. Here you can see the supreme representative of the region's self-government, who evaluates cooperation as seamless, 100% professional, with full satisfaction. So I don't know if we understand each other about the dispute. It bothers me that you didn't use a true argument. It's not that you did it, you have every right to do it, and I never questioned that. I didn't even examine your other personnel steps, there was no reason. So the second time I'm asking you, are you able to say from the government that you're writing about it? Or subordinates. With the founder, I admitted that in my first performance, and we're both describing the case the same way. When I asked the director, the former, why he insisted on a closed selection procedure, I am not a water operator, he gave me these eight arguments, which he allegedly also told the first deputy. I don't think you do, because I don't think it's even at a meeting with the Minister, but it's really with an authorized member of the Ministry's administration. The reasons why he wanted a man from inside the business are as follows: Basic knowledge of territory, flows, property on watercourses and waterworks. Location, status, basic data in critical cases, for example the capacity of troughs in cities. Emphasis on the care of this property and therefore its operational reliability, especially in stress situations. Two. Basic knowledge of means, construction machines, cars, other technology, which has the plant, or other departments or available companies. Three. Human resources of the race. The staffing of the company, in particular in areas related to the activities of the plants, representatives of relevant authorities, firefighters and other components of the integrated rescue system. Care for quality staffing of the plant. Four. The problem of dam safety. Ensure regular monitoring of dam status, detection of faults and risk assessment associated with this, determination of measures, implementation of them according to fault detection and priorities depending on the risk to the dam. Similar issues in the protection of river dams. Five. Knowledge of flood issues on watercourses. Flood levels, dangerous sections, flood range. Six. Flood problems on dams, dam spaces, flood control, exceeding limit levels, safety of dams for floods, crisis management. Seven. Organization of flood services, meeting of flood commissions, communication with mayors, firefighters, army. Eight o'clock. Safety work for floods, quick provision of techniques, workers and so on. And the former CEO put it on my question, and I would say that I also said that in my first performance, the mentioned circuits can certainly also be recognized in practice in the position itself. Anyway, that's what I said, his estimate based on personnel experience, that the difference between the inside and the outside is about two years. I didn't really say anything about the new CEO not being able to handle his job. You could say that in a year or two. We will see what the economic results will be and what the other areas of these activities will be. [[9.40 hours]] However, there is a general issue of governance of state-owned enterprises, and not only in the agricultural sector. So he's the chief managing minister? The founder has a supervisory board to do this. I would understand if the Director-General didn't perform the duties of the Supervisory Board. What role does the Minister play in that, in addition to having political responsibility, he gives instructions to the Director? But I'm saying, it's a general question, it's not just... That is, if you give the instructions to the Director of the Forests of the Czech Republic, he doesn't comply, then the Supervisory Board comes in and says "everything's okay," you call him off? I'm not suggesting that we understand each other. I say, it is a general question, when many ministers of all governments, so that you do not take this personally or politically, believe that they actually run the business and that the director is simply his subordinate. He may have full responsibility under the Commercial Code, etc., but he must comply with the Minister's instructions. I am convinced that this is not the right interpretation, and I would like us to have a general debate on this, not today. All state-owned businesses. Not just one, because the CEO was replaced there. Because I think it is simply not that it is the belief of some ministers, I say regardless of political affiliation, regardless of which government they operate in, and it would be good to clarify the competence. Because since I've had so much time from September to December, in the meantime, I've been reading corporate status and this. And I couldn't find anything that the CEO was supposed to listen to the minister. On the one hand, I understand, I was a minister. I understand your attitude, Minister. On the other hand, I think that the type of competition within an undertaking - not even a Deputy Director-General - means a lower organizational enterprise, should not be a reason for the withdrawal of a successful director and professional. [[unintelligible]] The fact that it creates contradictions or other views is perfectly fine. Seems like a pretty petty reason to me. Really. You just listen to me in everything, or you go. I'm sorry, but I'm saying it this way in general. I haven't been looking for anyone since the pitch. I'm sure there are reasons why I would agree to the procedure if someone disobeyed the minister, even if it were just a recommendation, advice, he doesn't have the competence. I just don't find this case so serious. That's all. If you look into the organizational structure of the Podvodí Odry, there are more important managerial positions than the Director-General within the structure than the Director of the plant. It's not crucial... I don't see anything wrong with it, even given career growth within that enterprise, having a tender on the inside. When we were discussing the Service Act here, which isn't exactly the one, but it belongs to the public sphere, it was us who wanted as much openness as possible, and you were defending it. You said, "But those officials must be motivated to know that if they serve there well, they may go to the head of the department, the head of the department, etc. And there's often not as narrow a professional specialty as here. And here at the same time, when the director, not that he's naming someone from the call when he wants to write a tender within the company and he's gonna do it, virtually. He wants to make a difference, so he's called off. That's the problem I see here. If I've been misdirected in the Ministry's HR time, I'm sorry, it wasn't intent. You see, I'm not researching it so closely to find out who's ever joined and resigned. If it has offended you and you've asked for something, I feel like you're being very sensitive, so I'm really sorry. It wasn't intentional. I didn't really look today, yesterday, who's still sitting there or not sitting there. I'm more concerned that he gave the instruction, maybe he's the deputy, well, if you say so, who's in charge of the founder's affairs. But he's an expert on waterworks? To say really about the operational management position in middle management, so he can decide what type of tender? That seemed strange to me. And you've completely avoided the answer if you discuss it with the deputy. I do not want you to call him off because of this, but I consider it humanly polite for the Deputy Minister as Members to answer me, for example: I am sorry, I have nothing to say to you, my colleague is in charge of this. Or anything else. But just so you understand. I don't want you to handle this in personnel. I would just like it not to happen again to any of us, that if we politely turn in writing with a question about someone in the Ministry's leadership, we'll get an answer. Maybe even this one, Mr. Ambassador, you're out of luck, I don't care. Otherwise, I wouldn't talk about it. But I really wouldn't want that deputy to have any bigger personnel problems. I don't know him personally. It just bothers me. And I had that answer three times over my assistant. Not directly to the Deputy Minister, but through his secretariat. And then I gave up. I found it undignified to ask for the fourth, fifth time answers to a polite e-mail, where there were four of the same questions that the Governor answered. I've quoted his answers to you. If the new CEO tells you he's a KDU member, two days in advance, we can argue, there's no point. I think we'll wait a year or two to see how good the CEO will be. [[Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek behind the speaker from the government bench: That's clear!]] I just don't believe it. We all know that in the region. We knew the moment he checked in. But it can happen. I don't rule it out. I said I believe. [[Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek once again pointed out something, this time it was not understandable.]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister is nervous about this. He probably didn't know either. I made it clear, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, when you scream in my back that I'm gonna evaluate his results in a while, that I'm not gonna say in advance that he's gonna be a bad CEO. I think that's a fair approach. [[Vice Prime Minister Belobrádek:]] It's not. It's not a correct approach. We've got to move forward, he's gonna be a great director, says the Vice Prime Minister. [[unintelligible]] I didn't learn any reason except that he didn't listen to Mr. First Deputy first, and then to you about the type of tender for middle management within the enterprise. If you could at least write it to me like that, Minister, I'd be happy with the answer. I wouldn't agree with your decision, but I wouldn't say that I didn't agree with the answer and we wouldn't be having this debate. It really bothers me, and maybe it's a simple answer, why you didn't just write it to me like that - that one sentence. I say, personally, I would put it differently, but I would understand the reasons, even if I didn't agree with them, and I wouldn't argue with you here. But if you write, and I think it's really unfairly insulting to this person that he's been inexcusably communicating with self-government for example, and you're not able to prove it, then don't be surprised that the person I know personally, I've known him for years, I consider him not only a great expert, but also an excellent person for defending him here. I'd do it for anyone who I thought was being unfair. You know it's a man who didn't sit in that chair until the last day. You called him off on the date of appointment of the new CEO. The former Director-General concluded that at that point he had lost his motivation, and after some time he voluntarily left. I think that's what happened. So it wasn't to sit there another day longer or two days longer. I didn't even suggest you change anything, re-react. I'm just... [[The Minister is objecting to something from the government bench.]] That's the right verb. [[unintelligible]] I just didn't like your wording on non-optimum communication with subordinates and self-government because I don't think it's true. You haven't proved it yet. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u17	Good morning. I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr Bendl is also enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm an opinion that the Minister has the right to call off the director of his organization. He's even legally entitled to do it for no reason. It's up to him. And I would support this because the minister is responsible for the functioning of the resort. And I'd go further. I think that where the Minister has such a right, he's almost not even supposed to issue a tender. If anyone is sure he's going to be a good CEO, then he should just stand behind it and not write pseudo-selection proceedings and make others out of it, forgive me for the expression, but from those who have applied for the tender because the minister is already determined to make a fool out of them, but to say, "This is my candidate and I want to name him directly." It's a better way of driving than to make broad selection procedures and create some kind of fog to get people who are not very competent under the rule. I'm actually just doing an alibi to write a tender, but I've already decided who I'm gonna put there. In this respect, I would fight for the right of any minister to have this authority to behave in this way, as he is responsible for the resort. [[9.50 hours]] But this case is a little different. It's different that the director is in charge of running his institution again. And this, as the Minister of Agriculture assured us, was not a director who had some major, significant economic or other problems. He just didn't communicate with the Deputy Minister once or harder, which, given the importance of the institution, I don't know if it's always good to change the CEO of such an important state company, but apparently it's a trend that KDU-ČSL wants to behave like this. Because I would offer another reason why it happened. In short, a position under the CEO has simply become vacant somewhere at the level of middle management, and the minister said to himself, "Well, that's a good place for the people, maybe somebody wouldn't find themselves, so we're gonna want to make this tender so that the CEO can't resist and be able to get under it the person we want at the Ministry. I think that the Minister is not so incompetent and so ignorant a situation in KDU-ČSL that only two days before the signing of the appointment document or contract, he learns that it just happens to have been won by a folklore. [[With a smile.]] I really don't believe it. You're not that incompetent, Minister. I think you knew that was true. And that it is publicly known that there will be some elections in KDU-ČSL, and it is necessary to strengthen personnel positions within KDU-ČSL so that we have a strong new president of KDU-ČSL in the future. But that, in my deep conviction, you're taking advantage of the human resources solution to the situation in a state enterprise, I think that's a scoundrel, something that shouldn't happen. For promising positions to your members in individual state firms - that is, after all, what you strongly criticized before the elections - I consider that a thing that is dishonest and unsportsful. That, of course, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek can now do nothing but defend the man of the people, because we are simply before the popular elections, and that he will surely be plotting here for the fact that the Minister of Agriculture has chosen the best man, because by coincidence... Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Mr. Vice Prime Minister is telling me right now that he doesn't know, so I don't think the Vice Prime Minister is such an incompetent person that he doesn't know that the folks are putting themselves in individual positions. [[from the government bench]] I really believe that he is a much more capable person and that he knows where the folklore is applying to which competitions, how they enter the Ministry of Agriculture, etc. I will be more concerned with this question, I have been doing it for a long time, and I am ready to interpel the Minister of Agriculture with this question, because young members of the KDU-ČSL in the Ministry of Agriculture are multiplying very quickly, first of all. Secondly, I have interrogated the Minister of Agriculture in the matter of the tender procedures under way in the Forests of the Czech Republic. Coincidentally, it was very transparent without a tender for 1.9 million. CZK chosen by the company organising the selection procedure. A very transparent choice has been made for the choice that will be made transparently. Take a picture of yourself. I'll bring the material here later, because I feel like the Minister of Agriculture should make a public declaration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u19	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I'll introduce you to a few apologies. Mr Berkovec from 11 a.m. to 13 a.m. to attend the funeral, Mr Sedláček apologizes until 11 a.m., Mr Zavadil cancels his apology because he is here all the time. And then I have an apology here that's probably valid from 11:00, because it's an apology from the Minister of Transport, the new Minister of Transport, who writes to me that he's going to be appointed at 11:00, and he's been apologizing ever since. [[Laughing in the hall, calling from the right.]] Yes, he has an exemplary secretariat. So I'll inform you that the Minister, assuming he's appointed, apologizes from 11:00. [[Laughing]] That's some apologies. And now the Minister of Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u20	Thank you. I would like to thank you, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, because for the first time I have heard from you that, say, you have eased your words and apologized for something. So I take it in relation to the things that were said, and I appreciate it. Mr. Kendík and I will discuss why the answer did not go, and I will try to remedy the matter in order to make it a standard procedure. I must admit that it is quite astonishing for me, gentlemen, both Members through Mr President, the way in which you think and your logic in the sense that I am fulfilling some KDU-ČSL personnel policy here. So I have to say, if you're making this argument, I wonder how deep under the skin this practice must have gotten for your ministering, because when I look at all the key personnel changes I've made, I think this may be the first time I've ever been a director of any of my subordinate organizations within the department of a guy who's a member of the KDU. I wouldn't care if Mr. Pagáč is a member of ODS, TOP 09, ČSSD, YES or KSČM. I really didn't care. There were people from the academic sphere on that committee, experts in water management, and they gave the minister some recommendations. So here I really do beg this argument. And I didn't want to use it. But now I'm going to use it so that all the other Members may expand their horizons as to why we're having this debate here. Is it also a problem that Mr Krajíček's former CEO is a member of the ODS and a former Member? Was it selected in 2011 on the basis of a selection procedure? So I might as well turn the arguments around here if I were here in the House as an MP in 2011 and ask the exact same rhetoric as you're asking me now. And I didn't want to do it, but I had to do it so that other Members who may not have this historical connection understand perhaps why we are having this debate here today. So much reaction to these things. I think what you mentioned, I've just summarized in the essentials. I'm gonna say one more thing. If I wanted to proceed with that logic, as you put it, in relation to some kind of personnel policy, I could do it in a completely different way and in a different way, given the width of the resort. I'm the first minister who's come in a long time and adjusted the internal order at the Ministry. And I demand that every position at the resort be put up for tender, only in a situation unless the Director of the Department comes and asks me for an exemption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u21	Now, in fact, before Mr. Vice Prime Minister comes forward. The first in fact is Mr Stanjura, followed by Mr Laudát and Mr Kučera. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u22	27 more days and you won't have to deal with it anymore. Under the new service law, you'll have the secretary handle it, and you won't be here to ask - I've arranged for a tender to be made. We have a service bill for that. You turned the whole thing around. I asked you why you didn't say why you switched directors. And by the way, and I wasn't really obsessing about it, I wasn't picking on who was new. I wonder why you didn't write the truth into the answer. I asked you twice today to give me an example of the bad communication with the government or the subordinates, not once did you answer me and bring up the old stuff. I think it was a good decision, Ing. The krajíček to name into that function is his results. Like I said, I'm not gonna judge Mr. Pagáč until after a while. If he gets good results, I'll just say he's a good CEO. And I didn't say once that it was gonna be bad or that you made the wrong choice. That's when you turned back so you could play some political games around here. If you'd come here more often, Minister, you'd know it wasn't the first time I apologized. Sometimes you're wrong, sometimes you get carried away. So you're not even the first one, and I'm afraid the last one, that I'll ever get carried away again, or sometimes I won't have accurate information. If I don't have them, I have no problem apologizing. It seems completely normal to me. I'm not making a big deal out of this. And I'm saying, it's not even the first time I've seen it, and unfortunately, it's not the last time I've known myself. [[10.00 hours]] So try to answer those questions or tell me you don't know. That's my third time. If you wrote: I called him off because he didn't follow my instructions or my wishes, we didn't lead the controversy. I think you've written another imaginary reason, and that's all I care about. That's all I ever questioned. And if you think the principal worked badly. Yes, he was appointed minister without a tender. That can happen, and it can be a good and bad director. And a good and bad director can come out of the tender. The selection method does not guarantee the result. I read you a speech from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm just wondering if you agree to this or trade the Supervisory Board that it misjudged the three years of the former CEO's operation. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u23	Mr Laudát with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister of Agriculture, you made a gross and immoral mistake, or your deputy. So, unlike Mr. Stanjura, I think you should think about how you're going to continue this. What's the difference between you firing people and what the communists did in '69, '70? What are you doing? For proboha's sake, stop coming to the Charitas Palace to get your paperwork. You know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u25	Mr Kučera's point of view. With a point of fact, then Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u26	Thank you for the floor. I will take advantage of the fact that Minister of Agriculture Jurečka visited us after about six months, so I will extend the debate that my previous speakers here called Mr Stanjura and Mr Laudát. I would like to draw attention to another tender which may have been carried out in a similar way, and this is a tender for the management of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic, when four managers from the CEW were selected from six members of the topmanagement, whether it be the CEO Mr Szórád of the CEW, CEW's economic director, Mr Srba's sales director from CEW and CEW's head of internal audit. This tender cost us 1.6 miles, by the way. Crowns. If Minister Jurečka had decided in the office where the decision actually took place, we could have had at least 1.9 miles. The koruna save. I think you all know that in addition, these two gentlemen, Mr. . Srba and Mr Szórád, actively participated in their personal participation in the arbitration of the CEW Group in Paris against the Czech Republic. And we've appointed them to run a state enterprise today, Mr. Agriculture Minister Jurečka, as a matter of fact. I think it is very clear to all of us that the personnel policy of Minister Jurečka, and this is also illustrated by the example of the Odry basin and the example of the Forests of the Czech Republic, is very trivial. In the Forests of the Czech Republic we see that Minister Jurečka donated the Forests of the Czech Republic to people who made huge funds through disadvantageous contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u27	Another point of fact is made by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u28	Mr President, fellow Members, through Mr President, I would just like to say to the previous speakers that they, in their opinion, are judging you because they were used to it. I didn't really know if he was a member or not, and I don't care. I accepted your MP Benda's brother's office, and I didn't ask him if he was ODS or not. [[The voice from the O.R., it's not.]] And I don't really care. But I didn't care, and I didn't investigate. I really don't care! And this is how I move on. I think that the insidious way that you're using someone right now, that they're a member of something, you're fighting against the fact that membership in a party isn't a defensive example for someone to even run for office. Through Mr President, Mr Laudát. You know, you should first see how your colleagues in Prime Minister Nečas' government cleaned people by party cards, and the fact that there was no room at the State Department for former ministers, not because they were probably incapable and without contacts, but simply because they were from some party, so you have as much to say! In principle, if you don't believe that we didn't know that one of the people was from any side, you don't have to believe that, but it's true. And if you're saying we're liars, yes, I take it we are. But it certainly wasn't. We have a clear conscience, and if that's what you did, we certainly don't illustrate people by party cards!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u29	Now I have a few factual points here. I have to sort it out as they were served. Is that also a factual point, Minister, or do you want to get off properly? In that case, you'll have to hold on. Mr Bendl wanted a proper speech. In that case, Mr Stanjura and then Mr Laudát with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u30	I'm really not comfortable with a member of the government saying his or her own and leaving. I wanted to respond to Mr. Vice Prime Minister's performance, but I'm gonna say it anyway, but he's just not here anymore. I don't think it's fair to say your thing and leave. I'm defending myself against what he said! I submitted the interpelation and was not satisfied with the answer because I was not satisfied with the reason for the appeal. I'm not attacking the political affiliation of the new CEO here, and I've said it for the third time! In my opinion, this really is not an aggravating circumstance. I just smiled that two out of three were members of the KDU, and because there was nothing to hide in the region, the one who wasn't chosen in the end was already quite forward in his town and surroundings in that chair. And according to my information, they were dealing with the Minister. Maybe that's not true. But that's not the key to the debate we're having today. I don't know how to tell the Vice Prime Minister that I'm going to judge the new CEO by the results of what's wrong with it. He's telling me it's wrong. I think that's good. I'm not gonna judge him by whether or not he's politically organized there. That's the third time I've said it. But I'm not gonna say forward that it's good because I don't know. It may turn out to be a good move, but that doesn't mean if the new CEO is good, the old one was bad. That's not how it works. And maybe the Minister, now that he's arrived for the third time, will finally answer my questions about self-government and subordinates at the firm. It would be enough for me if he said here right now: In the answer I didn't put it exactly, the main reason for the appeal was that he didn't obey my wishes or my recommendation or my command. If she doesn't say so, I'll suggest to the House to disagree with the answer, if she says so, I won't agree with it, but it's enough because we're spinning, and KDU colleagues are turning the debate somewhere else. I've been a minister for seven months, and I haven't fired a single human being, if that's how you see it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I didn't bring any ODS member to the management function, if that's what you're interested in. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u31	Time, colleague. Thank you. Mr Laudát with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u32	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister - he's not here. I'm just saying, it's not my fault if Nečas or his Nagyová fired anyone, it's not my fault if Topolánek and his dalík fired someone or anything like that. Ask them. All I know in this case is that you wasted a decent, hardworking man with results. Nothing more, nothing less. But I think I'm gonna take a deep breath in front of you if you fix this scoundrel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u33	That was the last of the facts. Mr Bendl has now been duly applied for, provided that the Minister does not wish to exercise the right of priority. He will, so I will ask the Member to wait. With priority rights, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u34	On that, Mr Stanjuro, through Mr President, what you said. I wrote to you in this reply: In the case of the Odry basin, based on many information about the optimous communication of Director Krajíček against subordinates, Ministry and self-governing, I proceeded to his appeal. Some mayors followed me before the appeal decision, who complained about communication with the General Directorate of the Odry basin - for example from the area of the newly built Nové Heřmina reservoir. Then there's another matter. Some people, too, but that was not the fundamental reason, I repeat, even some of his subordinates, when I asked and I checked the information before I took that step, and I do that, that I call people even in the lowest positions, and I ask how it works in the structure, and they say that everything is not optimal there. But I say again that the basic argument for appeal was the procedure in the case of the selection procedure, when the CEO, and I must say, in a rather arrogant way, will say that this procedure simply will not work. And I will say again that there is nothing against everything that you have read, eight arguments written by Mr. CEO Krajíček at that time, so that the person who is inside the company can enter the tender and defend his expertise. Perhaps even more so, his mandate as CEO will be stronger. [[10.10 hours]] Regarding the things that have been said here in relation to the Forests of the Czech Republic and the fact that it has been handled in some way not entirely optimal. I must tell you - go to the forestry sector and look and ask people, given how small a community it is, how many people you will find who have not turned their entire professional life in three businesses: the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic, CE Wood and Less and Forrest. Find these people so they don't have a record on their résumé here from these companies. That's practically impossible. And those people who came into the position of top managers of the Forests of the Czech Republic didn't come directly from CE Wood, yes, they used to work in that CE Wood, that's right. Mr. CEO Szorád came from IKEA, was five years out of the market of the Czech Republic, working as a top manager in Poland. And if you mention the arbitration that he is a participant or an active participant in the arbitration against the Czech Republic, then he was invited as a person to testify as well as other 42 former employees of CE Wood or Forests of the Czech Republic. Those employees, for example, still work in the Forests of the Czech Republic. He was invited as a witness to the arbitration court. What's wrong with him coming to the trial? It's perfectly all right. So I don't see any problem with that. And if you're talking about some non-transparency of tender and such things, this year we will have more than half a billion crowns of savings in the Forests of the Czech Republic. We have cancelled tender procedures for legal services, for the purchase of cars and we are making significant savings in IT. I can say that what happened under previous ministers at the IT Department of Agriculture is still going to be a story that will be very interesting in the future, and I am taking active steps in this matter, including what happened at the State Land Office, and I understand that a lot of people are nervous about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u35	I have now again a few factual points - Mr Stanjura, Mr Kučera, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u36	I must say that I propose to the House to disagree with the answer, because the Minister is loading, loading on the decent person he called off, more and more. The mayor's argument is really funny. No Director General of the Povodí Odry will succeed to commend him to the mayor of Nové Heřminovy. I'm sure you do. Absolutely sure! And if the argument for appeal or bad communication is that a community that prevents the construction of a dam doesn't judge well the director of a business that is supposed to build that dam from the government, it's totally fucked up. Not to the new CEO, not to the future, and not to the next. I've been there twice in the debate with the citizens since he was the mayor of Opava who defended the dam because it would help Krnov, it would help Opava. But it's very painful for the village, and the local citizens just don't want the dam. And to say that the mayor of this village is not satisfied with the work of the director, whose job from the government is to do the exact opposite of what the self-government in that village wants is truly hypocritical. And speaking of arrogance, I don't think the function automatically carries a claim to the truth, and it's about some decent human communication. The Minister is a young man, the CEO is at least a generation older. And his insistence is evaluated as arrogance. The Minister's failure to obey is assessed as arrogance and grounds for appeal. I understand the Minister can call him off because of it. But what I'm saying is, he's on his own, even if it costs him a chair. And because - and I said it here that I have known Mr. Krajíček for a long time and that I have very good relationships with him and that I appreciate him. And since I know him, how he communicates in crisis situations, in other situations, I'm sure he's not an arrogant person, unless the level of arrogance is judged by his agreement with the minister or his disagreement, he was arrogant in this assessment that he took the liberty of disagreeing with the minister and allowed himself to insist on his own. And by the way, I know it's time, just one last sentence. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] The new CEO has already granted the Minister and has issued an open tender for the race director, we'll see who it is, whether it's someone from inside or outside. And the argument that he has a stronger mandate... The former general said I'm not gonna do... I'm convinced that there's a better person on the inside, so I'm not gonna play comedy, and I'm not gonna let people on the outside when I decide and I want a man on the inside, somebody who's gonna win the competition. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u37	Mr Kučera with a factual remark, then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u38	Thank you for the floor. I gave the example of the tender procedure in the Forests of the Czech Republic as an example of Mr. Jurečka's absolutely trivial personnel policy to highlight the appearance of my colleague, Mr. Stanjura. I am glad that Minister Jurečka confirmed that he occupied people in the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic who actually carried out huge funds through disadvantageous contracts at the time they worked in the CE Wood Group and that he actively - and this was also said from the mouth of Minister Jurečka - participated actively in arbitration against the Czech Republic, led by CE Wood in Paris. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u39	Member Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listen to the debate for an hour and 15 minutes and it is quite interesting. I'm from Ostrava, Moravian-Silesian Region, and the Flood Odry is close to me, too. But last week I had a situation where I got a call from a guy whose name I'm not going to call, let's say Mr. m, and he said to me, "My wife has been working at the firm for eight years, and I've been working there for two years, and my son started there after school six months ago." All these three people were fired on January 1, because the company is not economically beneficial. How do I listen to this debate, what should I say to these people? There are so many unemployed people in this country, with everyday problems about what they're going to do for a living, how they're going to work, how they're going to keep the family safe, and we're going to discuss here for an hour and a quarter whether some CEO has been called off correctly or hasn't been called off correctly. Gentlemen, I hope, and now I speak to the right, that you will still discuss an hour and a quarter of each of these people who are experiencing this personal tragedy today and every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u41	Another point of fact is made by Mr Laudát. I would like to be patient, my colleague, just to read Mr Šarapatka's apology between 11 and 12 o'clock, and then between 14 and 15 o'clock and Mrs Adamová's apology from today's day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u42	By your means, Mr President - thank you for the floor - I will respond to Mr Luzar. You know, I'm scared of one thing-- there's a lot of people, a lot of people are unemployed, and it's wrong. On the other hand, there aren't that many capable people. I, as a deterrent example, would lead to the human rights genocide - I borrow the words of the union - the personnel genocide at the Road and Motorway Directorate - leading to the breakdown of the institution. And I think even an hour here is worth standing up for a decent man. You know, I'd like to - if it wasn't WHO and it was Babiš, maybe I'd keep my mouth shut because... But when he puts himself in the role of some moral guarantor. And I would tell them, I personally approach people not according to a partisan book, they even have controversial opinions, but either they can do something or they can't. And Mr. Jurečka, you see, the idealist of the Prague Spring Jan Procházka wrote a book called Shootout. There was a guy who ran across the border because he wanted to get to his family, somewhere in South Moravia, he was shot, and there's one sentence: in that morgue there's no longer an imperialist or an enemy of the people, but a dead man. Try to behave at a level higher in that simpler level, just this way in your resort. Then I will really walk before you in a bow, because really work and humility, a little humility into the rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u43	Mr Luzar, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u44	Mr President, by your means, I would turn to my colleague, Mr Laudát, and I would ask that people be called uneducated, useless, just because they have lost their jobs, or otherwise it is considered that these are people as better, and that is why we are going to deal with them, and the others are simply unlucky to have lost their jobs. We're sorry, and we're just gonna sigh. So here I would seriously consider every word against those who have lost their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u45	President Kalousek with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u46	Allow a brief reflection on my foreman. Mr Member, with all due respect, we are not discussing the issue of unemployment, we are now simply interpelling on a specific personnel step, i.e. in a broader sense on the personnel policy of the Minister of Agriculture, because this personnel policy is to a large extent affecting the efficiency of the management of significant state resources, and we are discussing whether the personnel policy is thoughtful and systemic, or whether it is biased, party-based, and whether the basic prerequisite for the performance of the Director-General's duties is ass-climbing, because when he does not crawl into the back of the Minister, it is called arrogance. This, I think, is the subject of this debate, not unemployment, which, of course, is a difficult problem and we can deal with it at any other time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u47	That was the last point of fact, if I'm not mistaken. No, it's different. Mr Kostřica wishes to make a factual point. Mr Bendl is still waiting with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am far from using any bonmots. That is what I think there are other people on our political scene, more responsible for this, but I believe that the care of the said Director-General also includes, of course, the care of the shores, and I am impressed with the progress of Minister Jurečka's impeccable arrogance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u49	And now, Mr Bendl, with a proper application. It is the last one entered into the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to sum it up one more time for those of you who came later. The Ministry of Agriculture, at least as I see it, did not agree that the Director General wants to choose someone from within the Odry basin in his middle management. And because the minister didn't like it, because he would like someone from the outside to get there, or that someone from the outside of the company had a chance to get there, and by coincidence and coincidence, two days before the person in question won the tender, the minister learned that he was also a member of KDU-ČSL, so then the CEO of a well-functioning company, a state enterprise that fulfilled the government's tasks, even though the mayor or citizens of the municipality, who disagreed with it, would say that some holistic project to help Opava and other municipalities, was eventually dismissed. I am convinced that this is a bad personnel policy, that the Minister of Agriculture should respect every CEO who works well. If that's the principle that the Department of Agriculture and the Government wants to make decisions, then fine, well, at least let the public know. I wanted to contact you once again, Minister, although I will try to put the whole issue here in detail as a disagreement with the interpelation that I sent to you and which concerns the selection procedure in the Czech Forests, whether you would confirm or disprove that the company that organized the selection procedure for the management of the Czech Forests came out of the selection procedure or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u51	The Minister has signed up, and he has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The word "bad HR" has been said here several times. I think I'll agree with my colleague Stanjura right here. Let us evaluate the personal changes, please, nicely, whether on the Forests, on the Odry basin, on any other subordinate to me or under us, at the moment when there are any results, so that we can evaluate the first results after the end of 2014, those economics will be clearly placed on paper. We can evaluate other results - for example, those that put together some legal things already over time. I'll do another thing. For the agricultural department, I will have an overview of the leadership positions that have been put there in the past eight years by people on the basis of a selection procedure or a direct appointment by my predecessors and, therefore, when this has been mentioned several times today, political affiliation, let us be clear in this statistics, because I must say that if I had seen, for example, at that time, as a person who was in practice, for example, at the ÚKZÚZ in Brno, when he came to the leadership of this well-established professional organization, the person who had been put there. And again, I could explain it to my colleagues here, on the basis of roughly what assumptions, because they are judging me with this optics here today, I don't want to do it, but a person who really, really didn't understand it at all, the issue or the organization, and he's led the organization into a very complicated situation, so I think that's a bad personnel policy. If we look at the Forests of the Czech Republic, I have already mentioned the Forests of the Czech Republic. They're gonna make a record profit this year. They were able to make significant savings compared to planned expenditures this year, especially in the field of IT. We are working intensively at the State Land Office today on matters where the circumstances of issuing restitution claims in the past and some land are being investigated, so that these things will end, if possible, in a court of law, and the scope will be very large. So the people who started putting these things together came. Most of their predecessors either kept quiet about those things or didn't do anything positive to uncover those things. So I'm gonna ask for that personnel policy evaluation with some distance of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u53	First of all, Mr Laudát's factual point. He prefers President Kalousek, so in that case, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u54	Just a brief recommendation. Minister, if you really meant that you would be eight years back to discover the political affiliation of those or those employees of the Ministry of Agriculture, don't forget about race, religious beliefs and sexual orientation, so you can have it in a pile.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u55	Mr Laudát insists on his point of view?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u56	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to say the same thing about determining political affiliation. And Mr. Luzar. Exactly what I didn't say was interpreted. Everyone is precious to me, and I don't look at the position he's in. I have great reservations about the people who even led this country, and I appreciate more possible than any homeless person. So please don't push me around on this. But here we are specifically dealing with one very unfortunate and I would say a humanly very difficult step. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u57	I have no one else to sign up for, so I would end the debate. President Stanjura has already proposed opposition to the Minister of Agriculture's reply in the debate, so I will call my colleagues from the lobby. Madame Němcová is reporting with a point of fact? [[No.]] So I'm erasing it. We will vote on the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the answer of the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka to the interpelling of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on the appeal of the Director General of the Odry.' I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. - I'm sorry, I didn't see the application for a check-out, so I'm declaring this confusing. I'll check you all out. Please re-registration and vote will be repeated. [[10.30 hours]] The number of people in attendance has settled, so once again - we are voting against the Minister's reply. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 25. It's logged in 104 for 43 against 42. This proposal has not been adopted. I conclude the discussion of this part of the interview and we will continue with three interpelations by Mrs Němcová to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. I'm just stating that the Prime Minister is excused. The first interpelation concerns the situation in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and the Archive of Security Forces and, together with the reply, is presented as printing 353. I'm opening the debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in this situation for the third time since I will be asking the House to interrupt my interventions, because the Prime Minister is not present. I understand he's excused. I have to say, for the sake of correctness, that one day my interventions could not be discussed because I was not present for health reasons, it just happens. But there's no point in discussing the questioning of the Prime Minister in his absence. Perhaps this would be the case with the first time we deal with the situation at the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, i.e. when I would like to approach, and I do not want the Prime Minister to be here. But it's not possible for the others, either, because the Prime Minister is not here, and the other interpellation concerns the leak of wiretapping and information from the investigation files to the media. Perhaps theoretically it would be possible to discuss it if at least the Minister of the Interior were here, because his particular concern is, for example, if in 2012 out of a total of 204 leaks investigated were 180 from the police and in 2013 out of a total of 157 142 from the Police of the Czech Republic were investigated as illegal escapes. In that case, if the Home Secretary isn't here, it doesn't make sense either. The third interpelation concerns the negotiation of credit agreements, in which the Ministry led by Minister Mládek plays a very crucial role, and it is not here either. So I don't see the slightest reason to bother, explain and ask questions when there's no one who can answer them in any way. That is why I am asking that all three of my interventions be interrupted until next week, when I hope the Prime Minister will be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u59	There is a proposal that we interrupt printing 353, printing 364 and 365. I'm going to ask if there's an objection to doing this with one vote. This is not the case, so in one vote, we interrupt all three interpelations, given that the Prime Minister is excused. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees to interrupt these three interpellings, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 26. Registered is 113, for 90, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I see the chairman of the ODS club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u60	Thank you for the floor. Thanks to our saving time, we were prepared to continue the meeting at 11 o'clock, so on behalf of our club, I'm asking for a 27-minute break so that we can continue as expected from 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u61	Yes, I will. I interrupt the meeting within 11 hours when we continue under the approved programme, i.e. paragraphs 127 and 128, these are the Ombudsman's points, and then paragraph 103, which is the promotion of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-001-134.u62	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we would now continue this morning and shortly after noon with firmly placed points. We should address points 127, 128 and 103, which are House prints 327, 328 and House document 1700. We would also discuss points from the contract block in the second and first reading according to the approved agenda. Let me remind you that at 12.30 we have a fixed block of electoral points, i.e. points 97, 98, 99, 100 and 101. In the afternoon, because it's Thursday, we'll discuss point 135, which is oral questioning, and in a moment the order of oral questioning will be drawn. According to the amendment to the resolution on the Rules of Procedure, I ask if anyone has a proposal to amend the agenda. I don't see anybody, so we'll continue with the individual points. Before I begin paragraph 127, I apologise to Minister Stropnický, who was excused for half the day of the hearing, for a full day's work. We will now proceed with paragraph 127. Excuse me, I have one more apology here, and it is Mr Martin Komárek's apology from 11 to 12.30 for personal reasons.
