ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u1	58. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of equivalence of evidence of education issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic signed in Prague on 28 November 2013 /German press 134/ - second reading We interrupted this item on 30 October at the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Marcel Chládek and the Foreign Committee rapporteur, Mr Rom Kostřica, take the position at the rapporteur's table. Now I ask the Minister if he wants to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the letters I promised you at the last meeting. We have addressed the seven largest universities in the Czech Republic and none of these universities have written to us that they recommend not to approve this contract. On the contrary. Charles University tells us that this treaty doesn't threaten her or her fields at Charles University. The Czech University of Agriculture supports the conclusion of this Treaty. University of Chemistry and Technology, too, University of South Bohemia. Czech high education has written to us that it has no comments about this, and Palacký University has also written that this treaty does not threaten programs at Palacký University. We got two notes from Masaryk University. Mr. Rector didn't answer, but Bursar Jitka Zlatušková, who wrote us two comments, but it doesn't say that the contract should be rejected. At the same time, I have a statement from the Czech Accreditation Commission that it supports the approval of this agreement, that it is in accordance with the set rules. Since there was information about someone not wanting to do this in Slovakia, we contacted the Slovak Ministry and received information from their accreditation group that it also supports the proposal for this agreement and asks us to ratify it. At the same time as the Minister of Education, even though this ratification was set before this government, I would ask for this information to approve the ratification of the Treaty also because I have on my desk a letter from the Ambassador of the Slovak Republic asking us to speed up the completion of ratification and that this is a big problem in relations between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u3	Thank you. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee whether he wants to speak. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u4	Hello, thank you for your word. I just wanted to make a little comment, supplementing Minister Chládek. I have looked up the minutes of the Slovak National Council, which is the equivalent of our Parliament, where this was a problem, and I would like to assure the honored audience that 135 Members were present, no one stayed, no one opposed, all expressed themselves in favour of ratification of this Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u5	Thank you and I am now asking the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Zlatuška, if he wants to speak. Isn't that right? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the committee adopted a disagreeable position at the time of its discussion. He accepted this on the basis of the documents we received from the Czech Rectors' Conference and the Council of Higher Education. On the basis of a factual assessment of the information, the contract does not change the status of recognition of higher education where it is a bachelor and a magistrate. Nor does it change where the Ministry of Education argues that some tightening is being introduced in that there should be no recognition of the evidence of education achieved at branches of higher education institutions in the other state. Given that such a structure does not know the university law itself, so in terms of evidence of education, this is certainly an argument that is not applicable. What the Treaty contains is a change in the regime of recognition of acquired qualifications by the Associate Professor and Professor, i.e. results of habilitation and appointment proceedings between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. So far, the situation has been based on the fact that there was continuity given by the existence of universities in the former common state, a comparable system of comparable parameters of accreditation procedures in both countries, including cooperation between accreditation agencies. [[11.20 hours]] What the essential effect of this contract is that, from the date of its effectiveness, the habilitation and naming proceedings, or the professorships and professions that would be obtained in the Czech Republic or the Slovak Republic, would not be mutually applicable. It would be a different regime than that of international treaties today for other countries for which the Czech Republic has concluded these agreements. I have discussed in detail here in the opening meeting that the Czech Republic has a contract on the recognition of professors and professors with Poland, Hungary, Slovenia and Germany. Slovakia would be excluded from this common scheme by this Treaty. Obviously, it is a country that is closest to our environment in terms of bonds and customs. It would be excluded from this regime by an interstate treaty, which, in terms of the possibilities of adjusting the material in the Higher Education Act, is superior to the laws we adopt here. In fact, the Treaty has the power of the constitutional law at the moment when we are considering adjustments, which, for example, in the debate on the implementation of the so-called. functions at higher education institutions can be regulated by higher education law. For this reason, it is a thing that seems to be a small thing, which seems to concern a small number of people, but when we talk about the fact that it should be dealt with systemically, this is a fundamental problem. I do not wish to defend any excesses that may occur nationally or across borders in appointments or habilitations. However, individual fluctuations are not justified for changes in the system. You could talk about professors of Czech history who get a professorship in Banská Bystrica, and then when colleagues blame them, they say: Paper as paper, it's true. But these are parameters that are improved on both sides. And what the professor, Minister Válková, mentioned here last time during the discussion as an opinion of the Slovak Rector's Conference is contrary to what Mr Kostřica said here about the Slovak National Council meeting. But it must be noted that the view from within the academic community is necessarily more informative than the view of legislators deciding much more under impressions than the knowledge of the situation in schools themselves. From this point of view, I stress that, with the exception of the accepted memorandum between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, respectively. Among its ministries of education, it did not change anything in substance on the basis of what I reported here. I asked the representation of universities, i.e. the Czech Conference of Rectors and the Council of Higher Education. I received a written opinion from both of them, which was negative. The minister here referred selectively to several universities, which allegedly provided him with supporting documents. I did not receive any incentive from the Minister to have this point here, here this treaty was renegotiated with some new documents on the school committee. That is also why the school committee did not discuss this. The Ministry did not give the school committee any new documentation for this, so from this point of view, I insist on the original opinion. This was also the reason why it was not renegotiated either in the subcommittee for universities or in the school committee itself. [[Members are talking to each other during the performance.]] The Ministry of Education provided the basis for the meeting of the subcommittee on pre-school and basic education and subcommittee on secondary and higher vocational education. It is not known to me that formal negotiations would take place, I certainly did not receive any initiative as chairman of the committee. And also from this fact that the Ministry of Education does not communicate with the subcommittee on universities, but with a subcommittee which is responsible for schools of completely different floors, which are not covered by this Treaty, I consider that this is more about circumventing the correct process than the substantive assessment. Definitely from the perspective of the future development of quality of both Czech and Slovak universities, Slovak universities do not have to lie so much at our heart, the basic problem of higher education is closeness to external influences, the small mobility of workers, the small ability of universities to attract workers from abroad, especially in those fields which are officially considered worthy of support in any political declarations, which are branches of science and technology. There was never a real problem in the past. Once we limit the area from which we are able to accept the titles obtained, we say not only to our top universities, which have the appropriate accreditation for habilitation and naming procedures, that they are not good enough for their titles to be recognised in Slovakia. But for our universities, we limit the number of workers who can work on them prospectively without going through relatively long driving before they are chosen and appointed to those places. This should be addressed, if this is to be addressed, in the Higher Education Act by systemically, not by ad hoc exclusion of Slovakia from that group of countries with which they have been relatively problem-free until now and, according to the Accreditation Commission, also improving relations. Everyone says the accreditation situation has improved, possibly the problems that were on our side and on the Slovak side, disappearing and improving. In this we have an effort to conclude a contract which, on the contrary, says: the old titles are all right, we will recognise them, and if there were any problems, we will close on it. eyes. And in the future, in a better system, we simply will not allow this mobility as a power intervention. This is the core of the problem that I see in this contract. And I repeat, the opinion of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports was disagreeable, or the recommendation to reject ratification of this Treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u7	Thank you. Let me just remind you that at this point, we are already in the general debate, because on this point, this point has been interrupted. I have factual points here, Mr Kudela and Mr Rais. Mr Kudela was obviously mistaken. Mr. Rais, please. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u8	Have a good day. Briefly. Each process has a formal page and a content page. I identify with regard to content that it is necessary for the Ministry to pay attention to quality. That's perfectly understandable, and I think we're in agreement there. But on the other hand, I would also like to point out that there is an unforgettable fact that five universities here have said that they have no problem with that. There was a Rector's conference on Thursday. If I understand correctly, if I have information, it's no problem. So we also have to accept a little bit of the environment in which we move. I do not always agree with the opinion of the Ministry of Education, but this time I would like to support it. And I think that when we discussed it, the yes club's opinion was essentially positive, I think. That's another argument. On the other hand, what Jiří Zlatuška said from the system area is absolutely true. It needs to be dealt with systemically, but here we are facing a problem where the Slovak Government, including the President, has discussed it, approved it, so we must also respond to it. I'd rather be on the side of the Ministry of Education this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u9	I, too, thank you and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I have an application from Minister Válková, who is not here, so her application is forfeit. I ask the appellant, the rapporteur, whether he is interested in the final word. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate and we will proceed to the vote on the proposed resolutions. In any case, we will first vote on the first motion for a resolution, this is a proposal from a foreign committee that gives its consent to ratification. And if this proposal is not adopted, the resolution of the Committee on Education, Sports and Youth will be followed by this, when no approval for ratification will be given. That's just for information. I will now ask the rapporteur, if he wants to read the resolution once more, to do so. In the meantime, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u10	Thank you for the floor. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 9th meeting of 15 April 2014 on the Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of the equivalence of educational documents issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic signed in Prague on 28 November 2013. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Education profesor . Jaromír Veber and Mr Kostřice's report and following the debate, the Foreign Committee recommends the following resolution to the Chamber of Deputies: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of the equivalence of educational documents issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic signed in Prague on 28 November 2013. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, thirdly, empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-002-058.u11	Thank you, too. Let me just remind you that at this point, we will be voting with a proposal for ratification. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. Voting with order number 163 entered in 130 for 125 present. [[Against 1.]] I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. We are now approaching item number
