ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u1	169. Czech National Bank report on inflation - July 2014 (The Monetary Development Report for the first half of 2014) /German press 281/ According to Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the CNB, as amended, the CNB is obliged to report to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year on monetary developments. I therefore ask the Governor of the CNB to present this report. Please, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u2	Well, thank you again for the floor. Let me briefly sum up two basic blocks of the inflation report number 3 of 2013, a summary of economic developments, and then a forecast. As regards the economic conditions in the course of this year, we can see that the Czech economy has visibly revived. Annual growth accelerated significantly in the first quarter of this year, and year-on-year growth was very decent in the second quarter of this year - 2.7 percent. Although GDP remained unchanged for quarter-on-quarters, this is more of an artificial effect of selling preloaded tobacco products to a large extent. This means that even this quarter-on-quarter performance is very decent, because the first quarter was artificially increased again by the fact that the tobacco products were purchased. In line with our expectations, there are clear signs of positive turnover in the labour market during the course of this year, in connection with the growing economy. The number of job vacancies is growing gradually, while jobs have also ceased to be shorter, unemployment has gradually, but is falling steadily and employment is slowly rising. If I look at the number of job vacancies changed and how the number of employees changed against the same period last year, we are starting to get somewhere above the number of 25,000. Wages in the business sector after the decline at the end of last year are growing significantly again, although, of course, their annual pace in this first half of the year is still fluctuating due to the effect of tax optimization from the turn of 2012-2013, or bonuses were paid due to tax adjustments in 2012. Annual headline inflation, which remained at very low but non-negative levels in the first half of the year, increased to 0.6% in August. It's a historically extremely low number again. Core inflation has reached positive values after many years. Core inflation is a figure that states what demand is - or best reflects the demand situation in the economy. The estimated impact of the weakened koruna exchange rate is reflected in inflation at roughly the expected level of one percentage point. Price developments in the production sector also show a positive impact of the exchange rate weakening. Prices in the manufacturing industry started to grow again after the weakening of the koruna in August, the overall price development in the production sector is at zero. In positive terms, the price dynamics of construction works and market services have also followed in the last month. As far as the forecast is concerned, the economy will rise by almost 3% this year according to our current forecast. Tahun will be particularly fixed investments, which are again dramatically, relatively decently and dramatically rising at the moment, at least against the decline in previous years, which will reflect rising external demand, loose monetary conditions and rapid growth in government investment. Household consumption, which has started to grow again, will increase further, owing to a noticeable recovery in economic activity. Net exports will further contribute to GDP growth, even if it stagnates in terms of year-on-year development or is around stagnation, because imports are starting to increase, quite significantly, for those investments that are being made. I will point out that companies currently have slightly more than 17 percent higher so-called last year against them. operating surplus, which is profit and depreciation, which means, by the way, that this operating surplus is also higher by 9 per cent in euro, or firms have reason to invest and have money to do so. Thus, all components of domestic demand and net exports will contribute to growth, and the growth of the economy will also have a positive effect on the labour market, by restoring the growth of the number of full-time employees that will accelerate further. We expect the unemployment rate to decrease over the entire forecast horizon. Wage growth in the business sector should further accelerate significantly. The forecast expects headline inflation to increase gradually from the third quarter of 2014 and to return to the 2% target in the second half of next year. In its vicinity it will also be in 2016. The domestic economy will start contributing to price increases from the second half of this year, especially as a result of rising wage growth, or wages, to raise prices. Average inflation will reach 0.4 percent this year. It's going to be the lowest in the last 10 years. It should increase to 1.8 percent next year. By the way, it's four tenths of a percentage point below what the previous forecast showed. This is mainly due to the fact that imported pressures from the euro area are dramatically lower than we expected. Let me just point out, in the autumn of last year, producer prices were expected to rise somewhere above one percent in the euro area, at this point around one percent are falling somewhere. The forecast is based on the assumption of stability of market interest rates at the current low level, very low, zero, and the use of the exchange rate as a monetary policy instrument by the third quarter of 2015. After we assessed the risks of the forecast as slightly anti-inflationary at our July monetary meeting, where we consider the long-term subdued price developments in the euro area to be the main risk, we noted that the CNB would not end the use of the exchange rate as a monetary policy instrument before 2016. However, in order to shift the level of the exchange rate commitment to a weaker level, we would need to find another clear strengthening of the anti-inflationary effects. I dare to quit with this. I note that we seem to be on our way to growth, and this growth is due to the principal domestic phenomena, both by restoring investment and budget changes and, of course, by monetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u3	I thank the governor. The report presented by the Governor was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 281/1. I now ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Adolf Beznoska, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me show you the CNB's report on inflation for the half of this year. The CNB report on inflation, as well as all reports since 1998, has been discussing compliance with the inflation target, and a comprehensive macroeconomic analysis of the Czech Republic has been carried out to answer this question, with the report assuming that the report also provides forecasts for future developments with a horizon of 18 months. As the Governor said, the report, of course, defends the CNB's intervention, which supported the growth of gross domestic product. In 2014, this means this year, total growth is estimated at around GDP, total growth at around 2.6 percent. For next year, the estimate is somewhere around 3%. What is favorable is that I would confirm the words that have been said that real tendencies in the Czech economy lead to recovery and growth is no longer just about export growth, but it is, and this is important, subject to increased consumption of households and government consumption. This means that, in the opinion of the growth, it will be more stable, robust, permanent. As far as inflation is concerned, this year we are still moving on very low figures. For this year, average inflation is expected to be somewhere around 0.5 percent, i.e. still well below the inflation target. If the CNB had not carried out the intervention, it is very likely that this value would have been significantly lower. The report assumes that inflation should be close to 2% next year, and, of course, the forecast also envisages the stability of market interest rates and the continuation of the Czech koruna exchange rate against the euro somewhere between 27 and 27.40. [[9.50 hours]] The main mission, i.e. maintaining price stability. The Czech National Bank does not sometimes take into account budgetary implications to meet this primary objective, i.e. we can expect that the inflation target will be maintained plus or minus. Very, say, positive is not only expectations in the Czech economy. Since we are a small economy, export-dependent, the report is positive, even with regard to European expectations. A stable external economic environment is therefore envisaged. As usual, with a slight or perhaps a little longer delay, this favourable situation will also appear on the labour market. The possibility of employment will therefore be restored. The governor was currently talking about some 25,000 new jobs. The unemployment rate will stagnate, and it should start to fall even more rapidly next year. For your information, I took the data to date - or at the end of June we have about 537 thousand. unemployed. As for our own gross domestic product as an indicator that we are all extremely interested in. So in addition to the fact that the report works with relative numbers, I will show for those of you who are not following it so closely, that you can imagine what our gross domestic product in development is: GDP 3 883 billion in 2013; this year gross domestic product is expected at 4 0661 billion. and in 2015 it should be more than 4,216 billion. Crowns. For your idea of a supplement. Otherwise, the growth is positive. That's what we're talking about. So is the situation on the labour market. As far as average wages are concerned. We're still talking year-on-year about the fact that both in the nominal folder and in the real folder we're still in decline. That's what I think, however positive it is, it's not that positive in retro's view. Public finance deficit. The report also talks about this. We are most interested in this deficit balance of public budgets, etc. and then, above all, the structural balance that the government can influence with its decisions. The report here is a little negative in this regard, because the structural balance will increase next year. As far as imports and exports are concerned, this was mentioned. Exports, which is positive, of course, have accelerated, but due to the changed situation, the growth in the rate of imports also begins faster, i.e. at the entry the result is quite zero. What is a condition for these optimistic numbers to apply is that, of course, there are no changes. Some signals are flickering slightly in the euro area, and we could also have a very negative impact if there were any serious situations or situations. a retaliation measure by the Russian Federation. That's what I think could get the message into another light. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Adolf Beznosk. I am launching a general debate in which Mr Jiří Dolejš has signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u6	I don't want to delay, it's a message, we'll take it under advisement. But since the current forecast for further economic development is part of the report, the forecast for the current economic development is undoubtedly the starting point for the state budget, which we will receive in some two or three weeks, so it is good to be clear. Because the governor, when he finished, described the reality of the report, but he ended up being so optimistic. And, of course, it is appropriate to consider to what extent this optimism is erary and to what extent it is real. I have two comments to keep. The Governor certainly knows that the OECD summer report has given us somewhat lower values in terms of forecasting economic developments. I think it's about one percentage point. But okay, let's say that institutions can differ in their opinion. But after all, it is probably based on some analysis of pro-growth factors, especially with regard to the influence of foreign markets. And my second point is to what the rapporteur here has indicated - what if. But what if it's already on? I am thinking, above all, of the risk of a trade war spiral, where, of course, we can't figure out in September what the specific effects are, but the fact is that some companies from selected sectors are already affected. No doubt we'll have to allocate some funds to compensate. And we're already running simulations in the banking sector. I have seen the simulation of the Czech Trade Bank, the simulation on various scenarios of the effects of recession, or at least the stagnation of the Eastern markets in the tenth percentage point of GDP development. So I dare to take advantage of the governor's presence if he can respond to these remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u7	I thank Mr Dolejš. Mr. Governor's coming forward, happy to answer. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u8	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the questions. I'll try the OECD first. I'll admit, I'm quite surprised. It's quite different from most of the other prognosis for us. I would have guessed a little bit that this is also because the prognosis was made earlier, that although it was published, it was sometimes in my opinion at the turn of last year and this year. The OECD is a large institution, and these things are written in some process that then leads to the fact that sometimes they are already being done with delay. I don't think there's much else to explain the deviation from other institutions. We've been through Article IV mission from the IMF, which basically awaits something maybe slightly lower, but certainly not by a percentage than us, etc. etc. So that's where I think it might be a little bit of a complexity, because it's part of the report on the whole world economy. Perhaps more important for the future - I will just point out here, I have a bit of a problem in the discussion of the future, because we have monetary negotiations on Thursday and I am in quarantine, but I will try to create statements that do not affect markets. Russia, because it is basically what can change dramatically, goes about 4 percent of our exports to Ukraine, something slightly below 1%. This means that the direct impact of exports and imports at that aggregate level to the economy is not dramatic. He's uncomfortable, but he's not dramatic. We're talking about the tenths. Of course, the escalation and speculation about energy supply are much more dramatic. And we are still relatively well off in Central Europe because, on the one hand, we have relatively large stocks and, on the other hand, we have alternative pipelines and pipelines that are actually sufficient to turn around. We have a pretty special situation here. On the other hand, we would probably have to buy energy from the Russian market anyway. But if I had to speculate about the script, I'd poke the other side of it. We are one of those who have a major export market in Russia, and for Russia, the European Union is a particularly dramatic market at energy level. I think it's 14 percent of their exports and an even greater share of their energy exports, of course. By the way, Ukraine is 10 percent, which, of course, already naturally falls for what is happening. In other words, every store has two sides. And since this trade didn't break even during the hottest periods of the Cold War, I don't want to speculate too much, because I would have gone beyond economics to the borders of other ministers about why and how this trade could have been disrupted. Pretty much. If, in other words, it doesn't come to any extreme events, I don't think this most important channel will cause as much trouble as it might seem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u9	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I will end the general debate and we will proceed to the debate in detail, which has been addressed by the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the budget committee resolution of the 12th meeting of 3 September 2014 on the Czech National Bank's Report on Inflation for the first half of 2014. Following the opening words of Deputy Governor of the Czech National Bank Tomšík, the report by Mr Beznoska and the debate by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament: 1. Notes the Czech National Bank's report on inflation for the first half of 2014, 2. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation for the first half of 2014', 3. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-004-169.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. We will vote on the resolution, as the rapporteur said: 'The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation for the first half of 2014'. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 62 voting. 141 Members and Members are enrolled, for 123, against 1. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and the Governor. We thank the Governor for his participation and wish him all the good in his work. The next item is:
