ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-004-068.u1	68. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Bahamas on the exchange of information in tax matters signed in Nassau on 6 March 2014 /German press 204/ - first reading The proposal submitted will state - and will probably not - because the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš are not present, who commissioned the Minister of the Interior to present the proposal. I therefore ask the Home Secretary to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-004-068.u2	I didn't, I did, I'm sorry. Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to justify the Government's proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Bahamas on the exchange of information on tax matters. The Agreement was signed on 6 March 2014 in Nassau. It was signed by Czech Ambassador Jaroslav zajíc, State Secretary for Finance Michael Halkitis, for the government of the Bahamas Community. In this context, it is appropriate to recall that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the General Financial Directorate, is conducting a number of negotiations with jurisdictions with the preferred tax regime, which have so far resulted in the negotiation of 13 final draft texts of agreements on the exchange of tax information, including this, which I present here today, of which 8 are already in force and announced in the Collection of International Treaties. The remaining agreements are currently at different stages of the legislative process. All of this in order to strengthen the system of international exchange of information in such a way that it also covers jurisdiction which does not fully meet the principles of fair tax competition by its tax regime, thus allowing for a reduction of tax revenue in other states of the international community, i.e. also in the Czech Republic. The agreement submitted was negotiated in accordance with a model text approved by Government Order No 227 of 22 March 2010 and fully complies with OECD standards for international exchange of information in the tax field. The provisions of the Agreement shall be applicable to taxes introduced by the laws of the Contracting Parties. Information provided under this Agreement shall be subject to the so-called tax confidentiality. By concluding the agreement, the Czech Republic will be able to request the competent authority of the Contracting State with information that is foreseeablely relevant for the determination and determination of the payment of taxes, including the investigation or prosecution of tax offences. The Parties undertake, at the request of the other Party, to provide information held by banks or other financial institutions. In addition to the possibility to measure the tax, these measures can be expected to increase the tax discipline of domestic tax residents in the future. The negotiation of this agreement should also have a favourable fiscal impact on the Czech Republic's revenue and, at the same time, contribute to increasing the prevention of financial crime in general. To date, the jurisdiction with the preferential tax regime refused cooperation in the field of tax information exchange and had no international agreement with the Czech Republic binding them on such an exchange. The negotiation of this agreement on the exchange of information can thus be considered the success of the Czech Republic in negotiations on the international field of tax agreements. Thank you for your attention and I therefore recommend that the Chamber of Deputies agree to ratify this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-004-068.u3	I thank the Minister and I will not entrust him, but I will ask him to take up the position as rapporteur at the table, and I will also ask that the rapporteur take up the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-004-068.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I was so prepared for this, I was looking forward to everything else for the Minister of Finance, that is to say, but I understand that thanks to the forthcoming kobra project, you are certainly in contact with such agreements and agreements that are being prepared, so what I have prepared, what I wanted to say, I will say in pale blue similarly - all the data that has already been said here, when the signature took place - in 2010, when such a pattern of agreements on exchange of information on tax matters was already prepared, so I would repeat myself. So I'm not gonna say this anymore. I'm gonna say something about the Bahamas, tops. I don't know which one of you knows when Kryštof Kolumbus went to explore America in 1492, he didn't yet know where he was going, so the first of those islands was just one of the islands of the Bahamas Community, or San Salvador. And to get to the point, I will come back to this agreement again, so I know that this is a benefit in the framework of tax evasion and for the Czech Republic for the future. And at most, I suspect the Minister did not say so, so I will add that we already have such agreements under international agreements in force, for example, with the Republic of San Marino, about the Isle of Man, Jersey, with the Government of Bermud etc. There's more. Some are still in the legislative process. So I personally support forwarding this agreement to second reading and ordering the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-004-068.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm sure we can tell you were looking forward to seeing the Minister of Finance. I'm sure he'll be happy about it. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. I ask who is reporting for the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words that are obviously not of interest, and we will therefore consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? He doesn't. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. And I am opening the vote on ordering this bill to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 138, registered 135 Members of Parliament, for 116, against none. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this press. Now we're going to discuss item number
