ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-002-089.u1	89. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information signed in Belgrade on 13 May 2013 /German press 285/ - first reading The proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of the Interior. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-002-089.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the petitioner, to come forward with a request to give my consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. This contract was concluded after the standard negotiation process on 13 May last year in Belgrade. The general reasons for concluding exchange and mutual protection contracts for classified information are several times. In particular, it is cooperation in the exchange of information in the fields of economic, political, military and security interests of the signatories of the contracts in question. The primary prerequisite for concluding a similar contract with the individual state is, above all, the willingness to cooperate with each other by the partner state and, above all, the ability to ensure the confidentiality of the information transmitted. In our view, this assumption is clearly met by the Serbian party. At the same time, the Czech Republic, like the Republic of Serbia, is interested in cooperating with each other in this kind of exchange of classified information. In fact, there are very good reasons for concluding this Treaty with the Republic of Serbia as a partner for mutual cooperation precisely in the diction of the Treaty presented. From the point of view of the content submitted contract meets the needs and interests of the Czech Republic. When negotiating the text of the contract, it was followed in accordance with the model contract under the directive for expert negotiations on proposals for contracts of this kind and the interests of the Czech Republic managed to enforce as far as possible. The representatives of the Republic of Serbia agree with the proposed text of the contract without reservation. Ratification of the submitted contract is in the interests of the Czech Republic, and I therefore ask you to agree to this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-002-089.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, but I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep it down. We're discussing the point we've placed. I will now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Jaroslav Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-002-089.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my dear fellow Members, the Minister has made a proposal for the treaty, he has commented on it. I believe that all the things the House needs to know the answers to, he probably said, and I recommend that the proposed treaty be referred to the Foreign Committee for further discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-002-089.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. At this point, I'm not seeing anyone logged in. Looks like no one wants to get out. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I wonder if you want to take the final words. Neither the promoter nor the rapporteur want to. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? Looks like you didn't. In that case, we will vote. The motion for a resolution is who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is the vote number 110, the Members present is 154, with 138 Members in favour of the resolution proposed. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. That concludes the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point.
