ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u1	177. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations These are the answers to the written interpelations of the Members with whom they disagreed and have therefore been put on the agenda for the 17th meeting. The first rejected response to the interpelation is the interpelation of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček in the case of Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, according to the House's press 313. This point was interrupted after Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's speech. So I'm asking him if he's interested in his speech at the beginning of the rejected interpelration. I ask for peace of mind so that I can give the Member the floor so that he can express why he refused to interpel the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka publicly promised this July that the implementation of the Act on the so-called Act will be examined at the September meeting of the House. Church restitutions. However, contrary to this promise, the government coalition did not submit any proposal, analysis or information and the KSČM's initiative proposal to include this item in the programme did not support it. This, above all, has demonstrated once again the cynical approach to the implementation of its electoral programme, which helped her win last year's elections. Such steps clearly show that the ČSSD has thrown crucial electoral promises into the trash and betrayed its electoral agenda. She probably forgot that almost 80 percent of the citizens were or are against the so-called Church restitutions. The overwhelming restitution, this spectacular indulgence that Nečas bought Nečasův the cabinet full of cynical sinners, should be fundamentally changed. If the churches do not agree to restrictions on financial compensation and economic supervision, according to the Vice-President of the ČSSD and the head of the negotiating board with the churches of Alena Gajdůškovášková of 15 March this year, it cannot be guaranteed that Members will not change the property settlement law without agreement with the churches. She added: "Personally, I would hate for the matter to be resolved unilaterally, but the atmosphere in the House is such that one-sided steps could take place. " Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Sobotka sees things differently. It is also skeptical to hold a referendum in the Czech Republic on so-called. Church restitutions. "Social democracy did not propose a referendum on religious restitution, that was the proposal of the KSČM," he said recently. Yes, it was indeed a KSČM proposal. However, 30 ČSSD Members, including Bohuslav Sobotka, also signed up for his support. It happened on December 16, 2011. Three years later, on 18 March this year, only 13 ČSSD members supported a similar proposal by the Communists, without Bohuslav Sobotka. If Parliament had decided that such a referendum could be organised, nothing would have obstructed this formality. Even according to President Miloš Zeman, the House of Elections should deal with religious restitution and change part of the law on financial compensation. Miloš Zeman was also a supporter of the referendum, especially at a time when the laws and treaties on the settlement with the churches had not yet been approved. His words are also worth mentioning: "It is necessary, however, to examine when the church's property was confiscated. There are documented cases where the church's property was seized for Masarykův's first land reform of the first republic, before 25 February 1948." What can I say? Maybe it's just that if it were just to replace the churches with what they really took away from them. Communist regime, there wouldn't be anything to argue about. However, I do not consider it correct that the churches should also receive the property that they have been deprived of so-called. second land reform before February 1948. This was also consecrated by the then People's Party, headed by Roman Catholic priest Monsignor Jan Šrámek. And it's hard to pass him off as a communist. monsignore Šrámek held the position of Deputy Prime Minister from 1945 to 1948, in whose programming statement he also held. says: "The new constitution must thwart the hopes of all those still hoping to return a nationalized economy to a handful of capitalists. With regard to the matter of land," I quote from that document, the government considers it necessary first of all to end confiscation of the land of traitors and collaborators. Secondly, there will be a need to review all cases where, in the first land reform, the land was released from the farm, although it belonged to the fund under the law. Thirdly, the government intends," i.e. Monsignor Šrámek and his two folk colleagues František Hála and Adolf Procházka, "also proceed to the revision of the allocation procedure under the so-called "Rational procedure." residual farms. The agricultural land thus obtained," I conclude by quoting, "the government intends to allocate to small farmers from the ranks of peasants, housekeepers and landless, and to preserve it in whole buildings as exemplary research, cultivation and breeding stations in public administration." Ladies and gentlemen, the respected Professor of Constitutional Law Václav Pavlíček said again recently that even nationalization of church property after February 1948 was a democratic step. "The decision to seize the property of the Catholic Church," I quote his words, "was typically bourgeois democratic measures, not communist measures." [[9.30 hours]] dáma and gentlemen, Prime Minister Sobotka and some other representatives of the government coalition often use the argument that the Constitutional Court has decided on the property settlement with the churches, which we are obliged to respect. However, this argument was rejected by the President of the Constitutional Court, Pavel Rychetský, in 2012. "Summers have been circulating throughout the Republic of politics with a very popular repeated thesis," I quote his words, "that we ordered church restitution to take place in the form in which they were adopted in the Chamber of Deputies. That's not true." According to the Rychet Constitutional Court, he merely said: "It is the duty of the state to set the blocking clause in the Land Act 22 years ago, not to leave the blocked situation forever, but to deal with it on the contrary. But to what extent," I am still quoting the words of Pavel Rychetský, "and in what way the State decides to compensate, to restitution or to that group or individual, the Constitutional Court has not said that at all, nor can it say that because it is not the third chamber of Parliament. And with regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court of June last year, he decided whether or not the Constitution was violated by the law on religious restitution. In doing so, the majority of the Board of the Constitutional Court found it to be unconstitutional only one provision of the law in which, among the facts considered to be property injustice, it mentions, inter alia, nationalisation or expropriation of property without payment of a fair compensation. The Board of the Constitutional Court concluded that it was necessary to abolish the word just in this provision, since it is not clear in the context of the whole matter what amount of compensation would be considered fair. Nothing, nothing at all prevents us from trying to correct the current law." Ladies and gentlemen, in Lukášův's Gospel, Ježíš of Nazareth is said to come to distract those who think proudly in their hearts, to overthrow the ruler from the throne and to elevate the lowly ones, to feed the hungry with good things, and to send the rich away empty. These are clear words that will not be erased from the Bible by modern - day Christian theorists for the influential, powerful, and rich. Of course, Czech society wanders in the labyrinth of an unprocessed past. He lives in captivity to historical myths and efforts to cope with the past through awkwardly purposeful political interpretations. Politicians are primarily not about some moral settlement, but about using the past as a political weapon and justifying new transfers of property, even if it is to be the difference between a single voice of a certain criminal. Yes, in healthy societies, the past is more or less a clean house from which to look to the future, even though it can have its very dark places. Unfortunately, in our country, the past remains a swamp that brings down not only the future, but also transforms the present repeatedly. And the Chinese apples that billions of churches don't touch people? There's only one state budget, and when it's paid somewhere, it has to go somewhere else. Let us conclude by a brief interpretation of Petr Chelčický's spiritual legacy, about which the famous 19th - century novelist lev Nikolajevič Tolstoj wrote: "It was nearly 500 years ago, a good and wise man Chelčický lived in Bohemia and penetrated this Chelčický into Kristův's teaching as written in the Gospel. He understood that the teachings taught by the Popes and their bishops and priests were wrong, that it was not by Kristův's teachings to bow down to images, to serve Mass, to worship the Popes, bishops and priesthood, and to carry out their orders, but, as is written in the Scriptures, to love bůh and neighbor, to love all and not to be exalted, to endure humiliation and not to desire anything for themselves, but to serve all. Tolstoy, "who accepted his teachings and began to live according to him, " concludes Tolstoj. No, ladies and gentlemen, churches and church institutions are not meant to subpoena the state, but to be available to those who seek out their specific services in a targeted way. This, too, is why I propose a dissenting position in response to Prime Minister Sobotka's written interpelation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u3	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. The Prime Minister is not here to respond, so I ask who else is reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. I see. Please. Mr. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I am pleased that my colleague, Mr Grebeníček, is beginning to educate himself in the faith, and perhaps this is the way to change. I'm sure it's a good thing he reads the Holy Scriptures. I just want to say that KDU-ČSL wasn't here at the time when church restitution was decided, so I can't judge his complaints about the process, let's say, settlement with the churches, but he forgot three important things. The first thing is the principle of justice and the principle of recovery of what has been stolen or confiscated. So that's the first thing. Second thing. Returning property isn't just a step towards giving up property, but it's also a matter of separating the state from the church. Representatives of the then government, represented primarily by the Communist Party, at that time turned priests into civil servants, and these civil servants were paid out of the state budget, and so far they are actually paid out of the state budget, and the law says that these payments will be reduced when they go to church financing. So it is not a unilateral act of return of property and some financial compensation, but it is also a reduction in the costs that the state has with the churches, until the church is financed itself, and that therefore there will be a complete separation of the state and the church. And I don't think he mentioned that at all. [[9.40 hours]] And the third thing. Remember, Mr President, that, as the blocking on church property was done, a number of assets in the cities and villages were blocked by seals, and this property could not be dealt with. And what actually happened in the settlement means that a number of plots in municipalities and cities will be released and that this is actually also for the benefit of cities and municipalities. It is not good here to unilaterally point out only that some property has returned or that property has returned, that it has returned badly, but it must be told the whole truth that civil servants are becoming employees of the church and that land is being released. And there's the main reason, and that's the return of the seized and stolen property. I think that would be correct at the interpelations and at the points that you are constantly stubbornly presenting here, to say. I don't think the whole thing is clear, and you should act like it, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u5	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka for his speech. Before the next performance, I'll say an apology that's come out. František Vácha, Mr. František, apologizes for the illness. Now, Mr Václav Klučka, Mrs Jitka Chalánková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. My words came up. Well, it's going to show up in the vote. I'm gonna ask you to check out how many of us are here. So even this topic of church restitution doesn't interest everyone. I would just like to say that I believe the Prime Minister, I believe the government, as promised in September, which has already been done, will bring the material back to the Chamber of Deputies, and so it will. I would like to say to Mr Hovorka through the President: KDU-ČSL was not here, but was here by spirit. The great spirit of Miroslav Kalousek. He clearly demonstrated what the church restitutions are about at the moment. It turned out the way it did. I don't think there's anything more to say than Pope František says, and he makes it clear what the church should look like, how the church should behave. There's no need to repeat that. I think it's not like that with us, and I'm a believer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u7	I thank Mr Václav Klučka. A factual point by Mrs Němcová and then a factual point by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, since we are already dealing with what interests and does not care in this House, sits here or does not sit here, which my colleague Klučka is opposed to, it would be necessary to first tell how many Members are sitting in their own ranks and how many religious restitutions this topic, which I remember, has been a great pre-election tug of this party, how much it is of interest to their Members, since we are already blaming ourselves. On behalf of the Civil Democratic Party, I want to say that there may not be so many of us here, because yesterday it was clearly said that the Prime Minister would not be here, so it is not at the moment when questions are asked by the Prime Minister, normal to sit here and listen to someone when we wanted to hear someone else's comments, namely the Prime Minister. That's two. And thirdly, I have to say, we're usually not that many of us here right now. Part of our colleagues are outside the Chamber right next door, because we used to have the habit of leaving when Mr Grebeníček spoke, because we are not willing to listen to such a degree of manipulation and demagogy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u9	That was Mrs Miroslava Němcová. With a factual remark, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only a brief one. I'm always struck by the innuendo to the need for the church to be poor, and the references to Pope František. I think he's a great man who's trying to make the church's perception in this world the best possible. But you also have to realize that the church, if it is to operate and carry out its social mission, needs some means to do so. In the past, the Communist Party behaved with its predecessor by making sure that the church was truly poor. And now, actually, there's a turnaround, there's a settlement between the churches and the state, and now suddenly there's a huge fear that the church is going to be rich, that it's going to spend money with which it doesn't know what to do, and in your opinion, it should give all the property away to the poor. But you also forget that the church must finance its operation from the money it receives, it must finance the clergy, etc. And I think you need to know that, too. That's forgotten, and often it's just what you guys say all the time - everyone has to be poor. I think it is important to really think about what the church or churches generally do in this society and what they bring to the state. So let's be objective, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u11	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka for his time. One more factual comment by Mr Stanislav Grospič. Then Mrs Jitka Chalánková and Jaroslav Foldyna are duly registered. And also a colleague of Mr Laudát's to the de facto. Okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr President, Mr Hovorka, that he may have listened very badly or you are not aware of the historical facts. The church did not become poor in 1948 or even 1945. The church has always been bound, and, for example, the laws of May in the 19th century have significantly restricted the property disposition of the church with property that the church did not own, but only had in its administration or possession. And what is involved in the dispute in relation to the current restitutions is that the church receives property that it has never historically owned. But there are already parliamentary records of this dispute from the period of the first Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u13	I thank Mr Grospič for his time. Mr Laudát and then Mr Hovorka again with a factual remark. I think it's gonna go fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u14	Thank you. I must satisfy my colleague Grebeníček. I think that Babiš and Sobotka and others are gonna be here for a little while and they're gonna be carrying laws like this and promoting and acting the way they're acting, and we're all gonna be poor, and those who applaud them most in those Liberec halls where the line of talk and rudeness is going to be the poorest. In every society, actually, when society is poor, the poorest gets to it, so those who applaud them most today will be the poorest. It's always been that way in the world so far. I would be surprised if the Czech Republic were an exception. So I think everyone's gonna be poor. And of course, I understand the logic of my colleague Grebeníček that he is in danger, because they are not individuals, the church is not a company, so he is concerned that by chance someone will not be left behind a little richer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u15	I thank my colleague Laudát. Another point in fact by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then by Karel Fiedler's point in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u16	Yes, thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen - through Mr President, I have, of course, listened. And I listened to the historical genesis that was here. But you also have to say, frankly, that not all property is being issued. Only the property that can be issued and a part of the property that cannot be issued is spent on financial compensation. I think that needs to be made very clear. You guys just made your campaign out of this, and now you're constantly trying to follow up on the campaign, and you're running the campaign permanently in the House. We need to be objective and say how it really was. That's my point about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u17	I thank my colleague Ludvík Hovorka. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, with a point of fact. Then Mrs Chalánková, with a proper application for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u18	Good morning again. Very briefly indeed. It is really a pity that the Prime Minister is not here today to respond directly to the complaints that have been raised here, to the remark that he promised to answer a number of questions during the month of September. As an extraordinary meeting took place, which unfortunately was not approved by the programme and could therefore only speak with priority rights, so there were a number of things that could not be heard there. I hope that this will happen during the discussion of paragraph 30, which you have not approved today in order to re-engage it on the agenda of the meeting. Answer each other why you have done so. I would have responded briefly to a colleague of Mr Hovorka. Through the President, Mr Member, Minister Herman and I sat down for half an hour and discussed this subject. We have found that we have an oddly similar view of many things. And if you're talking about the church having a mission, I think that not only me, but also a number of citizens of this society would like to know from the church some of her ideas about how she's going to deal with the property, what she's going to do with it. Because, unfortunately, when I was reading some of the materials that were there, I found that it would be invested so that the church would ensure that they would be looking for its maximum use, but nothing about what was at the beginning when the church restitutions were discussed was said that there would be some charity activity, care for older people, social services. That's too little to say lately. I guess that's why this topic is reappearing so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u19	Your time for a point of fact is over. Thank you. Mr. and Vice-President of the House, Petr Gazdík, with priority rights, preceded the duly signed. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize. It's not for questioning, however, you know. Five minutes ago, the Office of the Government sent this text. I assume it is also intended for us: "Colleges and colleagues, Prime Minister Sobotka will be available today for comments on the current political situation at 13.40 in Hlučín, place of sports recreation area, Customs 12. Call the Communications Department for coordination: 720688337. Adriana Rajmanová." Now you know where to find the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u21	Thank you. A real comment from my colleague Ludvík Hovorka. Even my colleague, hold on, the debate focused on the exchange of views. My colleague Ludvík Hovorka has the floor to a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u22	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, you all know that the church operates schools, operates hospitals and establishes charities, and these are all activities that the Church devotes itself to beyond spiritual life. I think that all these activities that I have mentioned require enormous costs and huge investments. Of course, the Church is trying to run these things as best it can. He needs the resources to do that. And, of course, if it doesn't have the means, it's very difficult to do so. I think everyone knows that the means that will flow from compensation, except that they will serve to secure and operate the church, because there will be separation, that means that no 1.5 billion will come. To finance the clergy' salary, the church must, of course, make sure that she can pay her people, her employees. I think that's perfectly understandable. And I have not heard anywhere that it should only serve to ensure the functioning of churches and not to ensure the pursuit of these meritful activities, such as church education, such as charity, such as hospitals. I do not know how you, my colleague, through Mr President, but go to Kroměříž for example and find out why children want to go to Archbishop Gymnasium. And why children from families who aren't religious want to go there. Probably because there's a good quality of teaching. That's all I'm saying, so that you know that the Church is really trying to use its resources as it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u23	Mr. Colleague, your time for a point of fact has come to an end. I have to be strict with everyone. A factual comment by KSČM President Pavel Kováčik and a factual comment by Mr Karel Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, in response to Vice-President Gazdík's communication, I would like to make one suggestion. We are now open to the Rules of Procedure. It rains on us various designs, some make sense, some make sense smaller. This one, which I am about to launch for a group of Members of Parliament and Members who are processing the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, I think it makes sense. After Mr Gazdík has told us where he is and at what telephone number and at what time the Prime Minister, I propose to amend the Rules of Procedure, so that, in addition to the oral and interpellations written in the Rules of Procedure, we would still have an interpelation of telephones. I'm sure it would make this House's operation more effective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u25	You're giving me, Mr. Chairman. One more point in fact. But a factual point does not take precedence, i.e. a colleague, Fiedler, with a factual point. Well, a gentleman, colleague Fiedler, prefers Vice-President Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel like I am addressed by President Kováčik because I am one of the main proponents of the Act on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I fully join his proposal. Yes, a telephone interview for the Prime Minister is a very suitable suggestion. I would add to that the proposal that the entire House could move to Noise, and that's where we could interpel the Prime Minister in the square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u27	A colleague of mine, Fiedler, with a point of fact. Then a duly registered colleague Chalánková. I hope you'll let her speak and be polite. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u28	Yes, I also join the motion to include telephone interpelations in the House's Rules of Procedure, because I don't think it's gonna be any other way. I'll take a short turn. It was said here today that few Members are sitting here. At the moment, 109 is logged in if we may have given a refresher to reclaim that the number would have dropped below 100. It probably tells us something about how Members have experience with interpelations, how good the answers are, how directly they answer the questions. But now, about why I applied for a factual remark. I would like to respond briefly to my colleague Hovork through the President. Yes, Mr. Ambassador, that's a complete match. I agree with that. I fully agree that the Church is doing a number of things, education, these social services, better than other facilities. I totally agree with that. But it still sounds to me in my ears what was said here at an extraordinary meeting, where unfortunately we could not speak, what was said here from the mouth of a fellow Member of Mr Laudát, when he spoke about this very topic and talked about the state on social policy, I think he mentioned it precisely with the social programme of social democracy of Prime Minister Sobotka, he will not have any money. But he's de facto not going to have the money because he's sending some of the money to the church. And that is why I think it would be good for the state to clarify how they will share, or how they will cooperate within this area, which would be most appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Herbert Pavera's point of fact. It's not my fault, colleague, that your party colleagues want to outrun you in your proper application. And then Mrs. Miroslava Němcová's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u30	Have a nice morning again. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, dear guests, I will take advantage of the fact that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Gazdík said that we could all go to Hlučín to see Mr President. I'm inviting you all to the Noise. It's a picturesque area, as I said this morning, and we have guests from the Noise College, who I warmly welcome here. You'll see you won't regret it. Since the Prime Minister's been there, I'm sure you're very welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u31	Ambassador, I'm leading you to the point. Now it was a performance that did not really respond to the speech on the subject that we are discussing. One more time, and I'll have to take your word for it immediately! Please, now the factual remark of Mrs Miroslava Němcová and then perhaps my colleague Chalánková will have a chance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u32	Thank you for the floor. In my point of fact, I want to respond to questions or complaints or comments that are raised here by the fact that churches and religious societies within the restitutions they receive are quite transparent in how they will deal with their money in this way. So I would just like to point out that the churches and religious societies - Mr Fiedler by your means, Mr President - are not the only recipients of the money that comes from the current taxpayers' contributions. Chairman of the ANO movement from 2007 to 2013, if I am not mistaken, his companies received a subsidy of CZK 14 billion. It is roughly two billion a year, which corresponds to how much the churches receive under this settlement. I think that if we're demanding one subject or part of an entity, that is, churches and religious societies, to tell us what he's going to do with his money, then we should want it from everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u33	I'll ask my colleague Hovorka if she'll survive after the performance of my colleague Chalánková. Thank you very much. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u34	Thank you for your word, I won't be driven away again. [[Applause and laughter from the TOP 09 benches.]] There's been a lot of technical notes. I would just like to point out that the TOP 09 was indeed in the government that pushed through the state agreement with the churches. Before this agreement of the State on the settlement with the churches, we must not forget that the historic agreement between the different churches has also succeeded. So this is also an important technical moment. And another technical note that hasn't come out yet. In addition to the fact that the churches will pay for their own operation and their clergy within 17 years, which is very important, I would also like to point out that the agreement of the state with the churches was concluded at the highest time, because there was a risk that after 1 January 2014, we would also be paying for the clergy from other churches that are not fully owned by our Central European space. I think I know exactly what I'm saying. So that's one thing. Then a technical one before concluding his speech to Mr Fiedler, with all due respect, through the President. If you want to know what the church's ideas of functioning in society are, I recommend it is quite difficult, but I recommend at least reading catechism so far. Then you can read the other texts. This is what churches really have at their disposal. In other words, I would like to draw attention to the members of the club, particularly the KSČM, who are here so much who are fighting against this settlement of the state with the churches, so I warn them through the President that I believe that I know exactly what is bothering them. Because churches get freedom. And that's the moment. It is a difficult step for the churches, and the way they deal with it is up to them. If they can handle it, it is possible that the spirit of freedom can also be gained by our entire society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u35	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, with a proper application. And then Mr Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely making a point about Mr Fiedler through you. Of course, the financing of social services is very expensive. You may recall, in 2006 or 2005, a law was passed that actually anchored the care allowance, which transferred a significant proportion of funds directly to citizens, namely those people who needed money. But it wasn't the other one. This means that those people who received the allowance did not always and not entirely use this contribution to pay the cost of social services. And that was a rocket cost increase at the time, because then, of course, it was necessary to finance social services facilities that were set up on the edges and the like. I think this too is something that needs to be dealt with in the future. And, you know, we've been dealing with the Social Services Act here that, as the population ages and the resources are constantly missing, there will be an increase in funding needs, and I think that this is a huge task both for the state and, of course, for the churches. But churches, if they don't have the funds, obviously they won't have the funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, then Mr Miroslav Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u38	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. My colleagues and colleagues, we are constantly returning to church restitution here, and it is obvious that this is a subject. It's probably the subject when people write about it on the Internet, it's in the papers, people ask us about it on the streets, so it's just the subject. But the truth and fact is that there was a vote, and then the right ODS, the TOP 09 and the rest of the Public Affairs had a majority, and they were declaring a law that simply made the settlement with the Church legal and public. What anybody thinks about isn't important at this point. And I'm also surprised by one thing I'm going to add to that. I hear in the Czech Republic when they talk about the church when they talk about church dignitaries, twenty years one and the same. I hear not about bůh, about morality, about the Bible. I only hear about property, about settlement, about money, and here and there some headline that some priest is being investigated by the police in connection with the fact that he hasn't been kept in line. And that's just a scandalous thing! I think that the 1054 Schizma was a crucial thing when the word church began to use the church in a single number, and that is the Roman Catholic Church. It's mostly about her in these restitutions. We don't mind the settlement. What was stolen must be returned. Every decent person has to respect that. We don't care about the other thing! Valorization of church property, respectively. the money the church gets extra! What kind of valorization? Where were the pension valorisations when the right has ruled here since 2006? There weren't any! You sent people a ridiculous 30 crowns, and that was more embarrassing. And there's millions here, or virtually. billions to sort of valorize. Where's the list of the property? Where's the bill of reckoning? There isn't one. There were still some new challenges and the proof of the property is very difficult, even the state today, the forests of the Czech Republic and others have problems with it. There's just a law here, let's face it, and that's the truth, voted by the majority, which determined that the state would deal with the churches. Everyone knows that it's injustice. And I think they're just sort of talking forums right now about that. There's nothing we can do about it right now. But perhaps, historically, some time will come to look for ways and solutions. Perhaps in the Czech lands the church will come to such things as churches in Germany, Italy, where there are far different approaches of church dignitaries. The Church may have one big problem, as I see it in Poland. Just solve the property relationship creates problems for the Church itself with corruption, etc. And I think maybe we've got a little bit of a mess going on with the people of the Vatican when these things start to work out with us. That was just a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u39	Thank you. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka's factual comment. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My esteemed colleague, ladies and gentlemen, only briefly to my predecessor through the Vice-President. You know, the fact that you hear nothing but property and settlement is due to the fact that just two or at least three parties in this Chamber of Deputies have made this a pre-election issue. That's why it's happening all the time, and it's constantly resonating. But if you want good examples, go to individual hospices, to individual health establishments, to church schools and there to come for the good examples. The fact that you do not see it, you do not hear it in the media, that is simply the problem of the media, for which the report is an important negative, not a positive report. Unfortunately, we don't know much about them on our TV, our radio and our newspapers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u41	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now Mr Pavel Kováčik also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would, by your means, Mr President, just briefly to Mr Hovorka, who has repeatedly drawn up a card on the subject of the election, accuse some parties in this House of bringing up the subject of religious restitution as a subject that fits before the elections. I merely note that in the quotes of the population's mood, i.e. the opinional distribution of the population, almost 90 percent of the citizens of this country have a problem with this way of solving religious restitution, has a problem with the law. And I do not know how you, my colleague through the President, I quite often meet when I discuss with the citizens that something needs to be done, that we should have let the citizens decide in the referendum that we should have insisted more on the enumeration law, etc. etc. It's not an election theme, it's a permanent topic! And as it turns out, it's gonna be a long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now also Mrs Miroslava Němcová, then Mrs Fiedler. If you do not sign up electronically, then of course you will lose the order because I will respect the Rules of Procedure. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u44	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond to Mr Foldyna's speech. I would like to recommend that he monitor book production, e.g. books published recently by Cardinal Duka or, possibly, his performance at the Czech Radio, where he learns that he is concerned with a number of questions both current and our society and historical. And what you said was that 90 percent, or maybe they're only talking about money and property, is that by listening to these reports and reading these books, you'd find that you're deeply mistaken. I highly recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u45	Thank you. Before I give the floor to any further factual remarks, I will read them first: Ludvík Hovorka, Karel Fiedler, Petr Adam. Before I give the floor to my colleague Ludvík Hovorka, I will read the individual apologies. Minister Daniel Herman apologizes as of 9.30; Mr Jiří Junek apologizes from today's meeting of the House, and since 14.15 Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologises. Now, then, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond briefly. Yes, Mr Kováčik through the Vice-President, I know, of course, about the mood distribution in society. I've heard another number, I've heard 75 percent of people disagree with that way, not 90 percent, as you say. But the number is given not by the way these people have objective information, but by the way they talk about it on TV, as they talk about it in the press, as it appears on billboards. And I was also talking about the election campaign before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. If you make it a theme, you hang it up on billboards, then don't be surprised if these people have unilateral information that they react the way they react. I'm afraid so. A lot of people don't have that objective information. If it's interpelling here and it's just the church getting property, the church doesn't care about anything, the church's supposed to be poor, so these people are starting to believe it. But you have to say both sides of the restitution. You have to say that the state stops funding the churches. You must also say that the property that has been confiscated is returning. And you must also say that land is being released that has been blocked and with which cities and municipalities could not be dealt. Then maybe these people will have objective information and may have a slightly different perspective than how the picture is being presented today in the society of churches and the matter of church restitutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u47	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, on a point of fact, then Mr Petr Adam. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u48	Thank you. So I will directly follow up on the words that the previous Hovorka here said about what information is from the media, what citizens can see on television. Through the President, my colleague, when I recall how many people have spoken on the topic of church restitutions in Hyde Park over the last two years, I know that when we thought about it, we were able to count four who were directly on the side of the defenders of these restitutions, but none of the civil public who had the opposite opinion. And the Minister of Culture, under which the television and the media are a little bit, is on your side. I'd like to comment on what's still going on here. The restitution. It's a really hot subject. In our country was given by Law No. 428 a way that's constant. That's for sure. It is simply a valid law that, here in the last Chamber of Deputies, two parliamentary clubs pushed through today's memorable midnight vote in November of that year. And I'm surprised that the current government coalition, colleagues from YES, never thought to do what the former coalition did back then - to vote on those breaks at the club meeting, as the former government coalition did in that memorable night vote. I'm surprised. You're dealing with a novel here, you've got simple instructions. You can use what they did back then, too. And as far as funding is concerned. The way was chosen. But there are other ways. Let us see how this is handled in other countries around - France, Austria, Germany, Ireland. I mean, France, that's a perfectly good case. That was a completely different model than the one he was chosen for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u49	Mr. Ambassador, you're running out of time to make a point of fact. There. Mr Petr Adam and then Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u50	Hello. It's constantly being discussed that church restitutions are the subject of election, post-election... It's a subject. I'm afraid there's been a mix-up of cause and effect. It's not that there's been a law on church restitution. It's perfectly okay. What was stolen must be returned. Period. But it's the way it was done. It's like my colleague Fiedler said, the night vote. It's about how it was pushed through the House - with 101 voices. And who was that one voice, we remember that. A law like this has to be prepared across the political spectrum, and then it won't be a topic. Then no one's gonna talk about it for two years, Hyde Parky's not gonna talk about it, it's not gonna happen. It's just gonna be like they said, and it's gonna be okay. Why are we resisting this kind of discussion? That discussion might not have been here long ago if the discussion had been done before and it was done right. We can do things quickly, or we can do them right. They came fast. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u51	Thank you for keeping time. Another point in fact, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u52	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few comments on Mr Fiedler through Mr President. You see, the Minister of Culture is not the Minister of Television and the Minister of Radio. You know, they're voting for media councils here to oversee what's being broadcast, how it's being broadcast, they can intervene. So either we or the minister can't dictate how to inform the radio. I just said in general that what's being said today outweighs the negative news, and often it's not the objective information that should be heard. And the good news isn't published because they don't increase TV ratings, they don't increase radio ratings, and of course they don't even sell diaries. So it's just an explanation. The Minister of Culture cannot dictate what will be broadcast on television, what will be broadcast on the radio. Well, I just wanted to add that for the sake of objectivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u53	Thank you. Now, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, and I hope that we can get to the vote so that I can ask Vice-President Gazdík to replace me for a moment, because I will then have an interview with Minister Marksová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to all those discussing the subject. Yes, it was a very interesting reaction for me. I confess that I was particularly interested in the repeated performances of my colleague Hovorka. As always, he was very sophisticated, and perhaps he could set an example in this matter for some of us. I hope I didn't give him a political death by saying that. I want to say that he was surprised that I was talking to the issues of churches, Bibles, etc. I was born the way he was born in South Moravia, four kilometers from Velehrad. My interest in church history is therefore old, it is not about changing to old knees. You know, the one thing that bothers me, however, is that, in relation to what is justified, we're going to be dealing with more and more unpleasant things - that's going to be a universal name. I think that such a strange story of the National Theatre's operating building, which they falsely claimed in 1990, was acquired in the first restitution wave and, in three years' time, sold secretly and suspiciously for millions by the Roman Union community of the Order of svatý Voršila in Prague, that it was indeed a warning example. I do not criticize the initiative of the legislature, I criticize these specific phenomena. And, of course, if I'm putting it as an example here, then to those who are not in the picture, I'm going to remind them of the current state of affairs when, after more than 20 years of selling what they've been claiming again, they're reclaiming that building. And you have to forgive me for bringing in some discussion about what happened in February 1948. I have recorded the performance of the Chairman of the ČSSD MP Jeroným Tejc on the Event, comments, when i.e. He said: "According to our information, the churches will be given 14,000 hectares more land than they had in 1919. " You understand that I've suspended myself from this claim. So it's not going back to February, it's going back to 1919? Of course, I had to take this information very seriously because I did not notice any incentive to initiate the prosecution of my colleague Tejc, for the dissemination of the alarm report. So I take that as a fact. And if my colleague Hovorka suggested the separation of the Church, I completely understand it, but I must say that the Catholic Church, as it was said after 1918, and I mean the whole Masarykův era, should first be dealt with by the post-Supreme Confiscations, and then should be invited to negotiate the separation of the state and property, especially the land. So again it was the first Republic, Masarykův Republic, which in a way complicated it. But once again, I am impressed by many of you, even colleague Klučka, who has clearly said here that if the Prime Minister has promised that the matter will now be judged on the House's soil, that he will do so, then I think that my motion for a resolution is entirely justified, and, after all, your extensive discussion shows this, if we could actually take a significant step, if we had made a diagnosis and, of course, a prognosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u55	Thank you. I was about to put to the vote, but my colleague Michal Kučera is still reporting on a point of fact, and then we will vote on Mr Grebeníček's proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u56	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I originally did not want to speak here to these speeches by Mr Grebeníček, but his excursion to 1919 and the White Mountain led me to believe that if someone should pay the costs incurred by the Communist Party stealing property from the churches in 1947, they should be communists and should pay from their pockets!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u57	Okay. Another colleague, Marek Benda, is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u58	The debate is extremely nutritious, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, but I think we are taking advantage of the fact that the Prime Minister is not here, so we can talk so freely because it is not worth interpelling. I've only got two notes. One for Mr Grebeníčk and his excursion to the peanuts. Yes, the issue of the National Theatre was a mistake of the original law, we all know it, and it was one of the main reasons for which we did not want to go the way of the enumeration law, because we knew that such mistakes would be cut there undoubtedly many. Why we wanted the extradition to take place under an administrative and subsequently judicial review regime, so that these situations did not occur, that we would write into the law some land, some building, and then we would find that it never belonged. The other story of the Orchids is some sort of trade dispute that I don't know why he's involved in this, and it's just the peril of the law that he's trying to tangle into church restitutions, and it has nothing to do with church restitutions, which really, apart from the fact that at the beginning, showed how wrong the enumeration law is. And then one comment about what my colleague Adam said. The problem has been here since 1991. We all know the problem's been here since 1991. In 1991 in the Federal Assembly, thanks to votes in the Slovak part of the House of Nations, churches did not pass as a general restituent, as they passed in a number of countries of the former Soviet Union. Unfortunately, they have been removed and it has been said that they will be dealt with separately. It was really an argument on the Slovak side. On the Czech side, there was a belief that they should be entitled restituents as well as all other persons. By the way, Slovakia has solved this problem over the next two years. The Czech Republic is stuck on it. It just got stuck on it because the atheist society prevails here, the vision of churches prevails, unfortunately we are forced by the communist regime, like the fat prelates who live here for themselves, and only slowly succeeds in changing public opinion that the church is really not just for itself, but that it does a whole series of social, educational, educational, cultural activities that serve the whole society. With the first solutions, if I remember correctly, after the governments of Václav Klaus came the government of social democracy, then Minister Pavel Dostál, let him have the eternal glory, which, by the way, charted the scope of the property, and the first figures that correspond to today's numbers with added inflation, put the Minister Dostál on the air at the time when he was Minister of Culture. The numbers didn't blow up. So just so we know the whole story. [[10.30 hours]] You know well that the first church restitutions were presented by Mirek Topolánek's government in 2008. Here at the House, a commission was created - and I could bring back all the evidence that was - in which most of the opposition had at that time, which also stated that the property belonging to the churches was to be returned. This commission noted. Unfortunately, there has never been an agreement with social democracy as to how this return is supposed to look. I fear the reasons would be most political, that social democracy has never found the courage to say to its constituents 'we think this is to be done'. It was clear that there would never be an agreement with the Communist Party, and there was no other opposition at the time, because the Communist Party was the successor of the entity that stole the property. Well, no wonder he doesn't want to return the property today. But only a short historical tour so that we don't forget some things. And I think that we will all be grateful that this settlement between the state and the churches has taken place, that the churches will no longer be paid from the state budget and that there will be no further and other entities that will take up exactly according to Dostálův, so to speak, respectively, the draft law on churches and religious societies that Pavel Dostál has enforced, which will receive a second degree registration and, according to the old law, could demand state contributions. I wonder how we would treat this in the future. I think we've solved one big problem. You can blame us, but in the end, you'll all be grateful that the problem is over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u59	That was Mr. Marek Benda. Now, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, on a point of fact. Then Mr Fiedler also made a point of fact. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to delay at all, perhaps just a remark to my colleague Kučera's address. By shouting, labeling and attacking opposers, such a complex issue as the so-called. Church restitution, we're not gonna solve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u61	Good morning, dear colleagues. With another point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler is prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u62	It's really still a big topic, as we see from the debate, even though participation here isn't the biggest. Our country has historically gone through what it's been through. What happened in 1948 and the subsequent period that existed in our country is simply a historical fact. And I have this feeling that this thing is a little bit not exaggerated, but put into a different role than it was in the surrounding countries. I mentioned here the fact that the relationship between the State and the Church is dealt with differently by our neighbours in different countries of the European Union. I mentioned France here. The position of the church in current France vis-à-vis the state, the extent of the property it has, is completely different, in a completely different amount of volume percentagely, in proportion to what Act 428 proposes. And I just want to remind you, my colleagues here from the right, to remind you or to mention a fact that we all know - that, oddly enough, the communists never ruled in France.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u63	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u64	Thanks again for the word. Mr Grebeníček through Mr President, on my part, this is not about labeling or shouting. If that's how you understand it, I'm very sorry. On my part, this is a proposal for a solution that the Communists could pay for the damage from their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u65	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u66	Thank you for the floor. I believe that this very fruitful debate is coming to a conclusion and a vote on the proposed resolution. But at the previous speaker's account, I would like to remind you that after the coup, a law was adopted on the return of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia to the people. So the property that could be mentioned in this very dense shortcut is now being held by the people and the people are to decide, through their elected representatives, how to deal with this property. And in that context, I pointed out, whether it's 70 or 90, I said that they had a problem of some kind, not that they strongly reject the 70, they strongly reject the 70 now - I think - 70 percent. As in this sense, we should really listen to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u67	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. At this point, I am not registering any request, so I am ending the debate and we will vote on the resolution as proposed by Mr Grebeníček. This means, if I quote this well, I did not sit here, that Mr Grebeníček disagrees with the Prime Minister's reply to his written interview. I have a request for you all to check out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the resolution, as Mr Grebeníček put it, on the disagreement with the Prime Minister's reply to his written interview. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? [[Voices from the diaper: not a kvorum.]] It's a 220 vote. Announced 66 Members, for 32, versus 22. There's no deal. So we're going to have to repeat the check-out. I'm going to sign you off again, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards to see if there's gonna be a full court. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. [[After a while.]] The Constitution has been reached, so we will repeat the vote. The exact text of the motion for a resolution is - we are voting on Mr Grebeníček's opposition to the reply to the Prime Minister's written interpellation. Everyone understands what we're going to vote on. And if everyone understands, I am opening the vote on the opposition to the Prime Minister's reply to Mr Grebeníček's written interview. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? It's voting number 221. Announced 96 MPs, for 32, versus 56. This proposal has not been adopted. We will approach the second interpelation, which is the interpellation of Mr Vojtěch Filip on accommodation in buildings for people in material distress. This is the House press 314 and I am giving the floor to my colleague Filip. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of your decision, Minister Michaela Marksová once again answered me on the question of accommodation in buildings for people in material distress. He may be useful in this case, given that we were dealing with the amendment to the Act on Compensation in Material Need here yesterday, and I note that I cannot agree with this second answer either. I am not saying that there has not been another answer, that some issues have not been clarified, but, on the other hand, it is obvious that there is a significant contradiction between the information received by the Minister from the Office of Labour in České Budějovice, and what information can be obtained from the City of České Budějovice, which in its own way sends individual people in a material need for accommodation in other residential hotels. I consider it an attempt not only to deceive the Minister, but given that the workers of the Labour Office know that this is a rejected interpellation, that this is an attempt to deceive the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.40 hours]] I strongly disagree with what is happening in České Budějovice with the accommodation of people who receive funds in material distress. I've already said this is a dispute about land in a way. I'll zoom in on Stromovka's autocamp again. It is a vast area with a number of separate buildings serving year-round accommodation, very close to the center. When you project who knows the South Bohemia Region, who knows České Budějovice, the coastal communication 1/22, which follows the R4 expressway system and the D3 converter, it is a territory that intersects along the river the town of České Budějovice, and from the Stromovka camp it is a five-minute walk to the centre. Walking to the Exhibition Centre three minutes, Earth breadwinner. And in this respect, I see the whole dispute by putting the car camp into insolvency, it's supposed to be that the civil society association of defence sports is basically not going to be able to, like another investor, get out of that secondary insolvency and will have to sell an area that is likely to be used for another development. This, of course, threatens the system not only of social care in České Budějovice, but also of other things that concern accommodation in those stages that are there, in the town of České Budějovice. Whether it is an international or world dog show, which is in spring, in autumn, about Hobby, about the Earth provider, about other events taking place in České Budějovice. I am convinced that this is the real reason why there was a dispute between the city of České Budějovice, between the Office of Labour in České Budějovice and those who manage the camp. I have prepared photographs for the secretary, where the office of employment of other accommodation capacity, where the office of employment pays, and those photographs prove that they are exactly the same as the accommodation capacity in the Stromovka camp. I don't want to, I don't know how the Minister will react, but I wouldn't like it if one of the officials tries to deceive the Directorate-General of the Labour Office, the Minister, to think that he might be able to deceive the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That is why I believe it is necessary to reject the reply of Secretary Michaela Marksová again. Not because the answer may not have gone any further, but it is still completely inadequate and deserves our attention, because it seems to me that there is a minimum need for control, whether internal or control, which will be carried out by the Supreme Audit Office, because believe me or not, not only to those who are in a material emergency on those doses, but already because there has been, I would say, misinformation that is provided. Furthermore, I think that there is a need for a certain order to be put in place in this matter. I will therefore propose, after the discussion, a refusal of reply and I will ask the Minister to decide in the context of the internal control, at least on the control of the Office of Labour in České Budějovice. Whether by their staff or by the Directorate-General of the Labour Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u69	I thank my colleague Filip. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. First of all, I have Mr Jaroslav Zavadil's factual comment, which I do not see at the moment... and Mr Zavadil is already coming. A real point, Mr. Ambassador, are you interested? No. That's a mistake. I'm erasing you. I'm asking who's applying to the debate on this interpellation. Nobody. Please, Madam Secretary, you have priority rights, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u70	Thank you. Mr President, Members, I apologise for the confusion here. I thought I was invited there automatically to answer. I don't think I'm gonna be reading the whole answer here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u71	Excuse me, Madam Secretary, theoretically, we should have the Prime Minister, but you're a sufficient replacement. Please. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Oh, that's a written interview for you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u72	So I see I'm not confused by myself. Thank you. Of course, in that answer, I have general information where it doesn't pay off. At this point in time, I have received the kind of answer that Vice-President Filip has at his disposal, which does not suggest that the employment office has acted in any way in breach of the law. Because the gentleman that the interpelation was originally about, I think that's Mr. Nováček, Novák, so he didn't actually get the housing supplement in the driveway when he was at the camp. He was, as I was informed from the office of work, staying in a camp, or the accommodation was offered to him by a non-profit organization. He wasn't offered a job. And when Mr. Novák checked in, the employment office basically tried to solve his situation right away, on the spot, as he had a duty. For a period of, I think, five months, but he didn't give him a living fee, because, like we said in the past, that's not actually going to the camp. But he compensated him for the housing costs of so-called emergency aid. This is a dose of material distress that actually, as the name sounds, corresponds to what it is paid for. There's just some temporary and things that have happened and that need to be dealt with very suddenly. It's part of it, too, when water comes out, when it takes your house away, so maybe you can buy some basic life supplies or, like, a fridge, etc. So from this benefit he was paid the cost of living, and then the employment office found him another accommodation, which he told him in his situation, that he would receive the supplement, that he could live there. According to the information I have at my disposal, Mr Novák refused this accommodation. As for the information that - I still have here that, on average, the hostel in České Budějovice for one person pays three, three and a half thousand crowns a month. And as for the information that then there's 12 to 16,000 crowns a month in Mr. Zemanec's apartments, I consider them as I... This can't be true, it would already be a violation of the law. And then it's really up to the SAO to look at it there, because we have another law - in the Act on State Social Support, there are so-called housing standards. These are such two tables, depending on the types, according to ownership, or according to the types of housing and are divided according to the number of persons in that household one to four, i.e. from the four above, the sum is still the same as the four, and at the same time divided according to the size of the village, according to the population respectively. This standard is actually the maximum amount that we as a state can pay either as a housing allowance or as a housing supplement. And I deliberately looked at how it is, how it would be in České Budějovice, which have just under 100,000 inhabitants. [[10.50 hours]] So for one person it is, I state the maximum amount that is there, regardless of the type of housing. One person in České Budějovice per month is entitled to a maximum of CZK 5,873 if they are two persons, the maximum is 8.5 thousand. I can't imagine how the employment office could pay 12 to 16,000 crowns a month for one person. But the only thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna really get my anonymous data out of them by individual people, so it won't say that it's Mr. Novák, the name will be crossed out, but it'll really be individuals, and so how many benefits are there? I'm gonna need a spreadsheet. I guess that's all I can do. If that's the deal. I'd like to see the evidence from the Magistrate. If the magistrate says the sums are this big, I wonder what it's based on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u73	Thank you so much, Minister. I'm sorry about the nonsense. I really thought it was an interpelation for the Prime Minister. I'll ask the plaintiff's reply. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u74	Thank you. Of course, I don't want to prolong the negotiations, but in this respect it must be said that in the stromovka car camp was not just Aleš Novák. I got to it through Mr. Aleš Novák because it was part of the first part of the interpellation. But in fact, when I found out afterwards, they were sent there by the statutory city of České Budějovice, the city's magistrate, Mr. Mgr. kostohryz, people who were there and lived there until May 9, 2014. Michal Roman, Daňová Agnes, Daňová Simona, Karel Havel, Kerekaničová Zuzana, who then moved out, and they are dealt with in a court of law. They are not paid and remain because the camp, because they were sent there before 1 October 2013, before the employment office stopped paying for the citizens in material distress, and they live there and have not moved yet, was not achieved either by a court order or execution. Věra Cepáková, Roman Doležal, Marie Macháčová, Aleš Novák, Martin Šíma and Lenka Smolíková. With Aleš Novák there is a document from April 29, 2014, which we can of course also add new data, when he asked to be moved to other apartments, and there Mr. Kostohryz writes that clients have repeatedly contacted accommodation facilities, asked for free capacity, or contact provided by field workers of the village, and yet it has not been resolved. The problem here is that first the employment office sent those people there, then decided not to pay for them. This resulted in damage to the Stromovka camp and there is a significant contradiction between what the Labour Office says and what the City of České Budějovice says. I think it's obvious here, and if the Minister is willing to process a new answer or send a check in, I will, of course, provide her with a document from the City Council immediately from České Budějovice, and I will get it on Monday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u75	I thank Mr Filip. I'm asking if-- Madam Secretary is obviously willing to be alone. He doesn't want to get out anymore. A colleague, Filip, has proposed a resolution on disagreement with this interpellation. If no one else is in the debate on this interview, I do not see anybody, so we will vote on the motion for a resolution on Mr Filip's opposition to the response to the interpelation submitted by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I have a request for everyone to check out, so I'm checking you out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Before my colleagues come, I have a change of apologies to Mrs Adamová, who only apologizes this afternoon, and Mrs Adamová is present this morning. Colleagues have arrived. I am opening the vote on Mr Filip's disagreement with his response to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs' interpelation. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 222, 99 Members registered, for 30, against 58, the proposal has not been adopted. I thank both the Member and the Minister. We've got five minutes left. We will proceed to another interpelation, which we will probably interrupt, but it is the interpellation of Mrs Miroslava Němcová in relation to personnel change at the ministries administered by the political movements YES. This is the House press 315. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u76	Thank you for your word. I think, Mr Vice-President, it would be best if we cut her off straight away, and I do not want my two subsequent interventions to be discussed. It won't work in time, but given the Prime Minister's absence, I would have asked if it had been my turn at nine o'clock or any time after there was still a chance to discuss this wisely. I see no reason to make my arguments here, why I disagree with the Prime Minister's reply, in his absence, that makes absolutely no sense at all. I don't know who would benefit from this and whether we could come to a conclusion in such a state. That's the first thing. The second thing, while I'm standing here, I'd like to suggest who you were watching the opening of our meeting this morning, so it was only 9:20 p.m. that he got answers to the written interpelation. I know there's two things going against each other here. The first is that the Rules of Procedure Act states that the time for written interpelation is set every Thursday from 9am to 11pm, but it is against the possibility that Members may propose amendments to our programme on the first half of the day of the sitting. I would therefore like to ask the House's leadership to prepare a motion for a resolution which the House could vote on so that, in this case, the same conditions for written interpelations as for oral. The oral afternoon starts at the set time, 2:30 p.m. No time has been taken away from them. Twenty minutes has been wasted here. Surely one of the interpelations could have been answered if the Prime Minister were here. I would imagine the motion for a resolution that the debate on the programme should be moved on Thursday to 11 o'clock, i.e. after the completion of written interventions. Because if that is not the case, in the worst-case scenario, it may also happen that every Thursday morning, an hour or an hour and a half, we will talk about the program as it becomes customary here, and the interventions will not actually take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u77	Thank you, Mrs Němcová, for this proposal and for the withdrawal of the interpelation. As one of the Vice-Presidents, I want to assure the lady of the House's leadership to deal with this. Thank you, Madame. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS MP, is also in favour of the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u78	I agree, of course, with Mrs Němcová' proposal. I mean, on the microphone, we want this to apply from the next meeting, because on the one hand, there is a law on the Rules of Procedure, on the other, the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies governing internal conditions. I think the first one is more important, and I think we are able to rationally agree on that, and the House's legislation certainly knows how to adjust the resolution slightly, which I do not know how many electoral periods are in force. I think when I got here in 2010, it was already in effect. We consider it very appropriate. At the same time, we are saying in the draft law on the Rules of Procedure that there are five minutes on the basis of the new point, and I think that Thursday would be fine after the written interpelations, what is another Tuesday at 14.00, Wednesday at 9.00, Friday at 9.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-001-177.u79	Thank you for this remark to President Stanjur. I assure him again that the House's leadership will deal with this. It's 10:59. As soon as we roll over to 11 o'clock, we will immediately proceed with paragraph 175, which is the draft timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget. Just one small problem. There's no member of the government. In the event that none appears, unfortunately, even at 11 o'clock, we will not continue to discuss this point as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. [[11.00 hours]] I can already see the rushing Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, so there is a member of the government present, 11 o'clock has passed, and I am opening the session
