ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u1	10. Government bill on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws /house print 82/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michaela Marksová. I beg you, Madam Secretary, take the floor. And the other colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you once again to keep the voice down so that we can hear what will be taught. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I have already discussed the proposal for this law in detail in the first reading, so let me just remind you that this proposal defines a new type of noncommercial childcare service and aims to extend and supplement the existing range of pre-school childcare services and, at the same time, to give some clear rules to these services, which already exist in a number of cases. I think that the various amendments that have come out of committee discussions will be read to you by the rapporteurs of these committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. At first we ordered the proposal to be discussed in the Committee on Social Policy, the Standing Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities and the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. The resolution of committees and commissions was delivered as House prints 82/1-3. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u4	Hello, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present to you the Social Committee resolution adopted at its 7th meeting on 28 May 2014, resolution No. 45. You have this resolution under the House press 82/2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now I ask that the rapporteur of the Standing Commission on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, Zdeněk Soukup, and then an authorised representative of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Body, Mr Pavel Ploc, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce you to the resolution reached by the Permanent Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities at its 5th meeting on 30 May 2014. Permanent commission on family, equal opportunities and national minorities after the justification of the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and after hearing the report by Mr Zdeněk Soukup and after the debate I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal to issue a law on the provision of child care services in the children's group and to amend the related laws, according to House press 82, as amended by the approved amendments; II. Instructs the President of the Commission to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; III. Instructs the rapporteur Zdeněk Soukup, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u7	I, too, thank you, and now I am asking for Mr Pavel Ploc's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the report by Mr František Adámek and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's proposal for a law on the provision of child care services in the children's group and on the amendment of related laws, press 82, as amended by the following amendment: 1. In the first part of Title II § 3 para. "or' is deleted at the end of point (e) -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u9	Mr Member, I am sorry, but you do not have to read the whole resolution, just refer to the House press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u10	I refer to the Committee's resolution, House Press 82.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u11	Thank you. Now, before we open the general debate, allow me to apologise for the reasons of the Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Babiš, for working reasons from 12 o'clock to the end of today's day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, read the number of the House press one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u12	There's one fix. I refer to the resolution of the Education Committee, press 82/3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u13	Me, too. I am now opening a general debate to which Mrs Semelová, Mrs Hnyková, Mr Beznoska and Mrs Nohavová and Mrs Kovářová signed up. Now, please get to Mrs Semelová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u14	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The bill on the children's group created a broad discussion both at first reading and at the committee or at various seminars, where we had the opportunity to hear opinions for and against. Individuals and different groups contacted us via mail. Many of the debaters rightly draw attention to the need for parents and young children to get to work. Parents' interest is understandable. A large number of families with children, especially after the adoption of the Nečasův government's antisocial reforms, face significant financial problems when they lack money for basic life needs, which is a significant concern for their children. From this point of view, single mothers are very ill. The warning is that 50 percent of them find themselves at the poverty line after divorce, to which they fall with their children. From this point of view, the effort of mothers or fathers to get into work as soon as possible is completely understandable. Another question, however, is whether they have any chance of finding work at present unemployment, especially in some regions. Of course, the interest of parents in placing a child in a preschool facility is logical in this context. But that's another problem. A number of kindergartens and most crèches died out in the 1990s and we are now reaping the fruits of this unsystemic solution. I would like to start by stressing that I fully understand parents who are looking for different solutions. But a solution that the government, virtually. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs offers, no longer reflects the interest of the child. And that's where I see the problem. Providing babysitting in a children's group is at the expense of its healthy development, at the expense of safety and, above all, does not take into account its right to equal access to education. The adoption of this proposal will reduce the quality of child care, whether in the case of inadequate premises, equipment, daily diet, when balanced healthy nutrition provided by kindergartens is intended to replace the heating of packages that each child brings from home. The age range of placed children from one year to the start of compulsory schooling is also problematic. However, I consider the most serious of these reservations to be a violation of the child's right to equal access to education. Those children who will be in the children's group will be significantly disadvantaged compared to children from kindergarten, respectively. will not be prepared to enter primary school at all. I consider this reservation essential. The importance of pre-school education for the future development of the child is confirmed by a number of surveys, including doctors who conducted brain research and concluded that it was most capable of acquiring skills by the fourth year of the child's age. That is why it is so important to include a child in preschool education, especially children from disadvantaged socio-cultural environment, as soon as possible. Further expert research into this issue shows that up to 85 percent of the individual's personality forms within six years of his age. [[12.10 hours]] However, the method of formation should be conducted under the guidance of qualified educators who know what a child needs at which age, what he can and should manage to continue to educate himself. The corresponding preparation, summary of knowledge in the field of pedagogy and development psychology are clearly provided by kindergarten teachers who can thus provide educational and educational needs for children of a given age. They are also prepared for providing care and education to children with different types of disability and special educational needs. It is not possible to ignore the importance that kindergartens have in balancing social and economic differences. In the end, it is not by chance that the Ministry of Education wants to make the last year mandatory in kindergarten, which is the only thing to agree with. Unfortunately, by anchoring children's groups into a special law, we can achieve the opposite, as this opens the door for further possible decline in kindergarten schools. For some municipalities, it will be more economically advantageous to create conditions for children's groups instead of setting up a kindergarten. A group of children may not meet the same hygiene conditions as mothers. We legalize the privatisation of these services and the resignation of the State to pre-school education. It's a step back, as I said at first reading, to the 19th century. Retreating from a high-quality preschool education system to mere babysitters. At the same time, we complain about a low level of education. The government should therefore support as much as possible young families with children, not children's groups, but by building nursery facilities and expanding the capacity of kindergarten schools that have an educational plan based on the needs of children of this age. However, since there is no will to reject this law, I am putting forward amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate which should address the main problems that I have been talking about in relation to the children's groups. This is the obligation of the provider to provide education for children on the basis of a processed training plan, and I also suggest that from the age of three to the start of compulsory schooling, a person who has the qualifications of a kindergarten teacher should take care of these children, and finally the last amendment concerns the obligation of the provider to provide for children in the children's diet group, which will comply with the necessary standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u15	Thank you. I now have two factual points to deal with. First is Mrs Nováková, then I ask Mrs Adamová to prepare herself. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I would like to repeat what I said during the debate on the subcommittee on regional education. If a child - care facility is designed in advance to be used by parents at a time when they cannot take immediate care of the child, we cannot automatically attribute the device to a completely pejorative touch that it is insufficient. Please stop automatically saying that if the facility is not an official kindergarten, it means that the person who cares for the children is unqualified, careless or that the written education plan will replace everything. We have experienced many years of experience, for example, with maternity centers, and we know that there are people who are educated there, often former teachers, so it is not at all pejorative to take care of children in a children's group through people who are not so-called officially educators at kindergarten. I would like us not to discriminate against this device in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u17	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Now, please get to Mrs. Adamová's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before it starts here - we are probably expecting a long discussion again - a long discussion and we will respond here to various such, I would say how many times to the untruths that have already been said here from the mouth of the previous speaker - I do not think of Mrs Nováková now, but I mean Mrs Semelová - so please think about the fact that there is an alternative here. An alternative for families, for parents with children, for children themselves. We're not talking about replacing anything. We don't want to replace kindergarten with children's groups. That would really be completely odd and demagogical. Consider it that there are a number of parents who would very much like to return to a part - time job, really just for a few hours a week, and this group can help them. There are a number of cases where a children's group can be helpful. There's no reason to think, perhaps, if I take just one of the things that has been said here, that parents couldn't take care of their child by putting food in the children's group to prepare for him, and then warm it up for him. If we were to discuss these things in detail, there would be a number of them. And I think we could be here again until tonight and talk about what's wrong and what's wrong and how it's all supposed to be treated. But let's just assume we're talking about an alternative here. Please, let us approach it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Now, please, with another factual Mrs Semelová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u20	Thank you. I'm worried that men's deed will now be replaced by women's deed. I just want to respond to what was said here. There's no way I want to defamate those women who take care of children at different parent centres and alternatives. I know they're giving it a lot and they're trying to take the best care of the kids. First of all. Secondly, these alternatives exist and therefore there is no need to adopt a special law. I wanted to point out here that if this special law is adopted, it really opens up further paths to further expansion of these children's groups at the very expense of the kindergarten schools that provide education, which children's groups will not do. There's just an educational plan for baby-care. The last thing I wanted to mention about eating. I know that most parents are those who try to take care of their children as best they can. On the other hand, a group of parents who do not do so for various reasons, for various reasons. When it comes to eating, you just have to really look at what children get, for example, in the first grade of primary school with them for snacks. They get various sweets, chips, etc., coffins, coca-cola, or they buy it later at school. Not every parent will take care of it, and it is the kindergarten that is supposed to ensure that healthy eating is given to children in it and provided for all children, even those I was talking about right now. Look at the results of medical examinations, what dentists say about the healthy development of a child. That's one of the homework of a kindergarten. And, first of all, education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u21	Thank you. Now with the de facto, please, Mrs Adamová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u22	Thank you. I'm just going to repeat one more time - we're talking about something that's for a not-so-wide range of users. We do not have to embrace all of these measures, which means that we would actually come up with instructions on how to satisfy every single parent in this country. We're talking about something here that can help a certain segment, let's say, if I call it that, this market. [[12.20 hours]] And I have a whole series of parents around me, a whole series of moms who are on parental leave, on maternity leave that are about to conceive, etc. and who are already dealing with how they will then take care of their children. They really welcome the fact that this alternative could arise here and that they could entrust their child to a children's group. In this case, when I talk to them, 99 percent of them really don't care about what they say here often, because they really trust that if they put their child in a children's group, they'll verify where they put it, how it works and if it's right. And I think that's what every responsible parent does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u23	Thank you, ma'am. I have another de facto, Mr. Kaňkovský. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that today we are about to have a whirlwind of women's factual comments, so I will attach a piece of that male perspective. I am the father of four children in a relatively large range of two to seventeen years, so I dare say that I have quite a lot of experience with pre-school facilities of different types and also of different qualities. I think that the debate that is being led here to this new law, to this new possibility in preschool education, should not go wrong in the fact that we are here to haunt each other. I will follow up on my colleague, through Madam President, Adamová, who has made it clear here. We're not here to crash kindergarten. We come up with some new option, with an extension of the offer of pre-school facilities. And if we're gonna be haunted here by the fact that the kids are gonna have a bad education, that we're gonna be neglecting them when it comes to eating them, that's where we're going the wrong way. That's not what the bill says. And let us not underestimate what may be the most important thing, and that is the influence of the family. If we have bad upbringing in our families, the best preschool facilities will not replace this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u25	Thank you, Mr President, for respecting the time limit. I would now like to address Mr Pilný's microphone with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u26	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I also allow myself to break down the women's debate so it doesn't look like it. I just want to deal with two myths, and that's that we're going to be reducing the level of education by having children's groups. At the level of education in the rankings, we are constantly falling. And it's not just the quality of colleges or the number of bachelors who can't find a job. It starts in kindergarten. And we're all born originals and dying as copies. And the process is really starting somewhere downstairs. It is not due to the quality of teachers in kindergartens, I do not question here, but to their preparation for how they actually educate themselves. If we are to influence the educational process, there is no need to discuss whether it will be done in children's groups or in kindergartens, but there is a need to significantly change the preparation of teachers who work there. Then another myth, that means eating habits. Dietary habits are created in a completely different way - under the influence of marketing, simplification and so on. I really don't know how this could negatively affect children's groups, because children with the eating habits that start in the family simply come and prefer them, prefer McDonalds and the composition of food that they simply deal with hard not only in our country but also in the United States. So let's not put up with any myths here that this alternative is going to change something about these two fundamental things. That's not true at all. It's just going to continue if we don't change the basic assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u27	Thank you, Members, for respecting the time limit, and now, with another Mr Gabal in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u28	Thank you. I don't want to prolong this debate. Only data shows that kindergartens significantly influence the educational opportunities and careers of children especially from socially less stimulating families, which means this effect is there. I would only give the Minister or the rapporteur to consider whether to accompany this law through a short monitoring system for a year or two where the results of children from mainstream kindergartens and from proposed facilities would be compared, so we had an idea of whether there was a different outcome or whether it was identical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. And now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Hnyková, who is duly logged in to the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I make my contribution, I would like to say to the Members who have made factual remarks here that we have come here to the House to be responsible. If we draw attention to some things here and want amendments, we feel responsible for the future. It's not a haunting, but we just want to approach it responsibly. When we read our amendments, and in the third reading, this Chamber of Deputies decides what it will look like, I think it will be responsible from all of us. I'll get back to my post. I would like to introduce to you the amendment by Members of the Dawn of Direct Democracy to the Government Bill on Child Services in the Children's Group, House Press No. 82. I would like to begin by saying that, at the outset, the Government's bill seemed beneficial to us, we also supported it and released it for second reading, as it will allow parents to return to work early due to the expansion of the spectrum of services provided. However, during the deeper study and during the discussion of this proposal in the various committees, both for social policy and for science and education, culture, youth and physical education and in the Committee on Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, we have come to the conclusion that we cannot support the proposal in this form. If adopted in this form, it will reduce the quality of childcare, as well as the limits of safety, hygiene and professional requirements for providers of such services. And that's no haunting. This will inevitably lead to greater risks of accidents, damage to children's health, and most importantly, I stress the educational effect on children. We must perceive another indisputable and very serious thing, and that is the quality of raising a child. We all know, and we have heard it here, how important this period is for the further development of the child and its preparation for life. The problem is that the children's group will not provide child education, especially in view of the need for a certain degree of child development achieved before compulsory schooling. Children from classic kindergartens and children's groups would be legally met, which would lead to very problematic situations where children from children's groups would be disadvantaged and their problematic involvement in the school team. It will increase the demands of teachers of the first years of school education, but above all it will have an unfortunate effect on the child. And we just don't want that. Our amendment will also prevent the liquidation of public services for pre-school children, in particular the pre-school education system, which we have been building for many years and have been very positive and appreciated by the outside world for this. We are fundamentally opposed to the comprehensive privatisation of pre-school childcare services, which this law regulates and sets up. We all know that not everything that was prepared in the bowels of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and was meant well has ultimately benefited people. Let us remember the contribution already mentioned today to housing and its abuse, when we all pay it as a result. We are seriously concerned that after a while, children's groups will push out in our unstable environment due to their financial advantage to a long-term built-up high-quality kindergarten. [[12.30 hours]] That is why Members of the Dawn of Direct Democracy are coming up with an amendment that will limit age in the children's group. A child could only be in a children's group from one to four years of age and would then attend a kindergarten that is well prepared for this entrance until the beginning of primary school. This amendment has been introduced into the system as House document 916 and I will join it in a detailed debate. I am asking the other Members to support and approve our amendment at third reading and, at the same time, to ask the Government for an accelerated comprehensive solution to this issue so as to take effective measures and enable the expansion of the public network of pre-school childcare facilities, thereby enabling and ensuring families with quality and professional care for their pre-school children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u31	I thank the honourable Member and I now ask Mr Adolf Beznoska, who is duly entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u32	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm not really going to delay this, because we've already said a lot at first reading. The Social Policy Committee lasted about three hours, if I remember correctly, only a clear position, as seen by the Civil Democratic Party. For one thing, we are looking for a legislative framework for something that basically already exists in our country. It's nothing new, and I think the fear of disturbing kindergarten is really odd. It is only a complementary instrument of pre-school education. It's an extension of variability, flexibility for parents, let them decide what their idea of their pre-school child's journey is, and I think the law is, in principle, very well prepared. It will also enable parents, especially mothers, to return early to work. Individual choice for children suffering from various specific diseases. Some children are very difficult to educate in standard kindergartens. It's one of the other options. I have collected some questions that I have heard either on the committee or from my colleagues, or I have received them by e-mail, and I will try to answer them briefly. The first frequent question is that children's groups, unlike kindergartens, do not provide education. To that end, they really do not replace kindergarten, but they are not just a babysitter. Children's groups play a role of socialization, education, and compulsory from the age of three, as well as an educational role, because they have their own educational plan that parents or will have to have at their parents' disposal. The second big complaint was that it was a good business. This is where I'd like to say it's not true. Children's groups will operate non-commercially and the amount of remuneration for the stay of the child must not exceed the amount of setting-up and operating costs. Third contribution that there are no strict hygiene rules and unqualified staff. Again, that is not true in this case, because the law addresses hygiene conditions very clearly and even sets clear demands for personnel qualifications, simply those who will take care of our children in children's groups. As for the possible demise of kindergarten, I will only say so much that this concern is not appropriate either. Children's groups really just replace them. I cannot imagine the mayor of the village, as Jana Hnyková said, who would interrupt kindergarten as a standard element of preschool education introduced. I really think this is completely odd, it's just not true. When it comes to eating, variability, freedom, etc. It's good, too. Even at home, you try to provide food for your kid to suit him. There are children who have specific diets, and if they visit a children's group, they'll bring the package, the snack, the lunch to kindergarten. And the last thing - no one's gonna control it. Here, too, there are clear control mechanisms that can carry out this check. Sum of the sum, we are really talking about a supplement to pre-school education. Let's not make a big deal out of this. The only amendment that was made to the Committee on Social Policy was entirely justified, it was the amendment by Mrs Kovářová, who said that she was lacking among the founders of the association. Of course, the ODS will support that. Other changelings, and this uniform, trying to tie our kids up from the tenderest age and telling parents how to do it, I find it all odd. Let the parents decide freely, and those children's groups will certainly find their place somewhere. In the end, if I remember correctly, we have 60,000 children left this year outside the gates of kindergarten, but it is impossible to do it before we can build the kindergarten. I recommend this law that we let him in and approve at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u33	Thank you, Member, and please to the speaker's counter, Mrs Nohavová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u34	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for a child care bill in the children's group is justified in view of the long-term lack of places in kindergarten schools to help parents employed in the care of these children. Unfortunately, both the justification and the solution itself are among the worst possible solutions in the care of preschool children. It's limited to babysitting, resigning to an educational process, not eating. The bill refers to the lack of places in kindergartens. It is currently local and concerns basically satellites around large cities, and it is still time limited to a maximum of three years. Topolánkův's government, then Nečasův's government, and the current coalition also signed up for this proposal. I'm asking why. Why did you accept the bill of ex-government? In your pre-election vows, you had no such thing as coalition parties. In the programme statement, you have an increase in the number of places in kindergartens, not children's groups. And I ask, in particular, ČSSD: Why do you claim such a solution to the shortage of places in kindergarten schools when you have strongly criticised this proposal as an opposition party in the last parliamentary term and today as one of the government parties in committees you support this law? Have you forgotten your criticism when you're in the coalition today? You are even going against the proposal of your Minister of Education, who talks about the proposal of the compulsory senior year in kindergarten. The birth rate is currently falling and children under three years of age are already being placed in kindergarten schools, so the new law is redundant. According to the debate on the various amendments in the committees, what really matters to the law-makers has become clear. It's the charging of this service and the commissioning of the business. Although the law is referred to as non-commercial, it does not actually have this status because it avoids the designation of the service as exclusively non-profitable. Yes, profit creation is not prohibited, but combined with basic parameters of the legal order of the Czech Republic, where every citizen and legal person can do everything that the law does not expressly forbid him, it means that the children's group will be operated for profit in the future, as well as today, without law. The threat to kindergarten is obvious. Yes, it's not a problem today, but it's a problem for the future. Municipalities, in the absence of funds, whether to maintain a kindergarten or for other reasons, logically choose the cheaper alternative, i.e. kindergartens will transfer to children's groups and the founder will not have to deal with eating problems, children will bring them in, will not have to deal with qualified educators, someone will invent the program for the children and parents will pay for the babysitting themselves. In a few years, we will be dealing with the problem of excess capacity in kindergarten versus watch-paying service, a children's group. As today after 20 years, we have shown an almost unsolvable problem with the existence of equipment for children called. Jessica. [[12.40 hours]] However, if we want to address the current problem of shortage of places in kindergartens by a children's group, well. Let us discuss it for the duration of the baby boom, which will pass within three years, and there will be plenty of places in kindergartens and for two-year-olds. For their placement in kindergarten, a decree on the number of these children in classes will suffice. The current lack of places is local and temporary. Even now, children's groups work without problems where there is demand for them, and no law forbids such activity. That is why the creation of the new law itself is redundant. However, if we are to have it, I suggest limiting the effectiveness of this law to its current need, which will pass around 2017. This amendment is also in line with the strategy of the Czech Republic's education policy by 2020, where the support of the children's group is presented as a temporary alternative until the capacity increase of kindergarten schools. In the case of the Children's Group Act, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs cannot agree either. One proposes the final year of kindergarten as a compulsory and the other child group does not address education at this age and in addition extends the target group of children to boarding school. At seminars held on the topic of children's group, it was said how preschool children are cared for abroad, as we seek inspiration here, beyond the borders. But we have the most sophisticated system of education and education for preschool children. In addition, it is part of the education system of the Czech Republic. We really don't have to inspire ourselves abroad in this regard. They should be inspired by us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Kovářová, duly signed up for the debate. Please prepare Mr. Heger. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u36	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. When discussing the Act on Children's Groups in Committees, Members of the KSČM were primarily defined against it. Apparently, it comes from a world view, a state or a man's freedom. Everything is to be accurately drawn, planned, from birth to death. I think times change a little bit. It is necessary to give people, in this case, parents, trust and the possibility of free decision-making. I appreciate the approach of both committees where the bill was discussed and thank you for supporting my amendment. It extends a number of providers to associations. Support for the proposal went across the political spectrum. I firmly hope that Members will behave similarly when approving the law at third reading. And now a few notes on what we've heard here. They say there is a risk that children's groups could push out kindergartens because they are less expensive financially. This has also been heard in committees several times. I repeat once again: for the founder, the municipality, it is more favourable when it comes to funding, the place in the kindergarten of the state, because for each pupil it receives a reasonable financial contribution from the budgetary determination of taxes, while it will not receive this for the child group. Let us also bear in mind that the founders are not only municipalities and cities, but could also be universities, companies. And that's the advantage of studying moms, or a college employee, having a children's group right at their workplace. The critical situation with regard to the capacity of nursery schools requires an accelerated solution. A children's group is one option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u37	They're thanking the lady. Before I invite Mr Heger, we must deal with two factual points. First Mr Herbert Pavera, I ask Mr Opálka after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u38	Have a nice afternoon. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, I just want to respond to the words that have been spoken here by Mrs Hnyková and Mrs Nohavová. To think that the mayor of the village cancels the kindergarten in his village is so naive that it can only be attacked by someone who doesn't know how kindergartens work in municipalities and cities. Every mayor, and I am telling you this as mayor of the village, appreciates the fact that he has a kindergarten in his village, that it works, that he has an excellent equipment and that he has qualified teaching staff there. There will be no privatisation of kindergartens by approving this Children's Group Act at all. On the contrary, this is the most alternative for parents with children who want to have children somewhere else than in kindergarten or don't get into kindergarten - so here is the opportunity for the children to go there. Moreover, as a parent, most parents will certainly put a child in kindergarten because it will pay far less money than it would in children's groups. That's why I think that the Children's Group Act is definitely a good thing, and I wouldn't be here at all with the idea that they should somehow replace kindergarten in the future. They'll just be an alternative for parents and children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u39	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit. Now, please, to Mr. Opálka's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. He won't let me react to the last performance where we were accused of being communists in the first one, that we want to keep the old order. You know, the school system that was built in the past, from kindergarten to college, they envied us in Western Europe back then. And where did we go in 25 years? Just look at statistics that are not prepared in the secretariat of the KSČM, but which are done by international institutions. So I'd just like to ask for invectors like that. And the second performance. You know, if it were that every community would be happy to have a kindergarten, then cities are also municipalities. How many of those kindergartens have we lost! I mean, it's just because these schools have been canceled that we're facing a problem today that when there was a 50 percent baby boom, we're not able to put all these kids in place right now. And when we talk about the problem of the children's group and kindergarten, you know, there's never anything certain about this House for me. Today, the children's groups don't get money if they're set up by the community, but that doesn't mean that someone won't get out here in six months or a year, and they'll get it, too. I know this with organisations that do social services, and it is a very difficult struggle for the state. We just don't act like everyone's supposed to take care of themselves, and then there's no problem that no one's gonna be taken care of. Because according to this password, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would have to follow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u41	Thank you, honourable Member. And now with a de facto request to the microphone of Mrs Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u42	Thank you. I just wanted to respond to that comment about kindergartens or groups that are for different companies, businesses or universities for employees' children, etc. This isn't about the children's group. Those are just corporate schools that are already approved in school law. So the children's group doesn't apply to these cases at all. It's a company kindergarten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u43	Thank you, ma'am. And now we have two more factual points - Mrs Hnyková and then, please, Mr Vácha. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond because my name has been mentioned here. Please, we're no one's savior, and we don't know what's gonna be here in a few years. A lot of things were said by my colleague Opálka, and I'm joining him. Please accept that we are taking this seriously and want to point out all the things that have already happened in the past in social services. And I don't want this to happen in raising and caring for the baby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u45	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Vácha microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would turn to Mrs Semelová through you. You're wrong. You're wrong. There are children's groups that normally work today. For example, we have established a children's group in our country and is following the bill that we are discussing now. That means it's basically an experiment. You can come down there and see how it works, how happy the kids and moms are, how those moms could only go to work because of this baby group. They couldn't go to work. Now they work for the company, pay taxes, and the children's group works. So it's not true that all those kindergartens or what you called children's groups are corporate kindergartens. Really, there are children's groups already. They just need the law. They need to be sure that they work. That's what we're talking about here. And it's already clear that it works, that it's an alternative form of care, that it's not competition for kindergartens. Today, we know they're gonna get a preschool, at least in our town, kids usually from the age of four, they're not gonna get one from three. And the children's group works, at least in our case, just for those moms who want to work early, after a year, after two years, they can't put the baby in kindergarten or day care. They're gonna use the children's group, and then, of course, they're gonna put the baby in kindergarten from the age of three to four because they know there's some sort of educational framework in that kindergarten, and, of course, they want to give it to him. It's just to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u47	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Kudela's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u48	Hello, Madam President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to say that children under the age of six should be at my mom's and dad's house. That's the best upbringing. A time when parents rush to work should be gone and parents should be familiar with the situation so that they know when the mother wants to or does not want to work, but the children should be primarily at home within six years. [[The noise in the hall.]] We have a business kindergarten at work because cities really need new places in kindergarten. Now it's boom. The State, municipalities do not create these places and therefore parents use these business or alternative places to raise children until the place in kindergarten is released for children. Parents are interested in having children in kindergartens at their place of residence, in order to create the collective for first class and subsequent education. [[Noise in the hall.]] But if those places aren't, then alternative options are being used. Business kindergartens, children's groups can be this alternative. If the boom falls off, there'll be plenty of nursery places for the children's groups to just disappear. They won't need it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u49	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I would like to call on your colleagues and colleagues in the whole room to remain calm so you don't have to shout them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u50	I think I'm talking out loud, I'm not shouting. Thanks for the heads-up, but I wanted to quit anyway. And I refer to Mr Opálka's comment. If there should be a time for children's groups to apply for a grant, on the contrary, their need will not really be anymore, so let them perish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u51	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and I now ask for the microphone duly entered in Mr Heger's debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have to express my sympathy for the law, although I am a great supporter of kindergartens, I consider them a long-term successful design of our education and I think they have also created a network of high-quality teachers, quite Renaissance-educated, who are able to devote much to young children. Yet this population fluctuations have shown that there is not enough flexibility in our state to provide for young children, and I hope that this law, which provides an alternative, will pass. But the main thing I wanted to do was get out. It concerns the health area. It's a question of vaccination. Given that, in parallel with the negotiation of this law, there has been a large activity of people who belong to the sphere of enemies vaccination, some are directly vaccine responders and make our scene completely unnecessarily complicated by occasional media attacks against compulsory vaccinations, which are one of the best achievements of our health system. Since there have been a tendency to undermine the obligation of vaccination under this law, I feel it is my duty to say that from the point of view of scientific epidemiology and the scientific organisation of public health, vaccination, compulsory vaccination, is introduced as a matter that is in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. Our country is highly praised for its high vaccination especially in the field of children's diseases and the Ministry of Health and Hygiene are very supportive of this condition and hope that it will continue to do so. Of course, things look very cheap when it starts to say how dangerous vaccination is and how it causes certain complications. But it must be said that these views are based on unsubstantiated studies, which are referred to as scientific studies, but are not. They are not properly proven, while the positive effect is proven very seriously and the current quality of vaccines gives a high probability that they are absolutely safe. On the whole, the Constitutional Court, which declared the obligation of vaccination in our case as established in the law, was constitutionally conformant. I would therefore warn against adopting amendments that could unfold this status quo. And I beg you not to accept any formulation that would remove the current obligation, which, of course, removes children who are contraindicated for vaccination, and doctors have reasonable reasons to avoid vaccination with them, so that otherwise the majority that can be vaccinated and retain a high degree of immunity in the population and prevent children who do not have immunity from getting sick so that this regime is maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u53	Thank you, Mr President, and now the rapporteur, Mrs Aulická-Jírovcová, has joined the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u54	Thank you, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u55	I'm gonna ask you and ask my colleagues again, especially in the left side of the hall, to keep them quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u56	I'll calm you down. Will you please be quiet, my colleagues? [[Jollyness.]] If you don't mind, of course I have my performances ready, but I'd like to take a few more notes. I would like to thank Mr Heger here for his appeal so that any amendment to the possible abolition of vaccination in this bill should not be voted out. I would just like to say, then, that she explain to her fellow Member from her parliamentary club not to make these amendments. It's just to the edge. But it is, of course, within the competence of each Member and Member that he has the opportunity to make these amendments. I would like to respond to the remark that a child should be home by six years of age with his mother, with his parents. I'd say to myself, "God bless us, if you don't mind." Then to counter the fact that KSČM Members are against this law. We're in your stomach. But that's good. I think we're talking about the consequences and the problems that might arise. Just a little summary. Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to say a few words. The Children's Group Act is a very controversial law, and the public either harshly condemns it or fiercely enforces it. Actually, there's no compromise either. I have attended several seminars, discussions and conferences on this government law and no one has convinced me of a change in my original opinion. In particular, I have complaints about the lack of pre-school education for children and the associated age range for children in the children's group from one year to the beginning of compulsory schooling. And then, as has already been said here, the diet and qualifications of carers. Since the beginning of the discussion of this law, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has referred to child groups as another possible alternative for the placement of pre-school children and that the current state of pre-school education in kindergartens will not be threatened. Unfortunately, we already know and we have very strong signals that by adopting this law we will start, and now I am really talking about starting, the possibility of gradually abolishing nursery schools and replacing them in the form of children's groups. I will therefore support the adoption of all amendments that address the reduction of the age limit. The need to provide pre-school education is in the interests of every parent and child. The difference in readiness in the first year of primary school was very noticeable. As another problem, I see a way of eating. I keep meeting with the view that parents can always provide a good and balanced diet for their children, and therefore there is no reason to be alarmed. But the reality is different again. Often a diet served in kindergartens is the only well-balanced food a child eats in a day. I also found myself thinking that the parent knows best what is best for the child. I believe most of us parents really want it that way and do it. I believe most parents would breathe for their children and do everything for them, but unfortunately our company is not just about amazing parents. Reality is a little different. At present, we know that the applications that have been met are about 98 percent in children aged three years or older. However, significant shortcomings are in the vicinity of the new construction of family houses, especially so-called satellites, or in smaller municipalities where the kindergarten was abolished or not sufficient for newly arriving young families with children. Overall, however, the critical situation remains mainly in children from two to three years of age. Unfortunately, the earlier mass crunches currently have very little capacity, and only one quarter of the total applications are met by demand. However, municipalities are not interested in expanding their capacity as they no longer receive any subsidies to the established place. They have fallen out of the system since 1 January 2014, resulting from the legislative regulation of the right-wing government. The Ministry of Education has prepared a solution for extending the capacity of kindergarten schools, but we should talk about possible aid to expand capacity for the most problematic age category, i.e. for children from two to three years of age. What prevents us from returning to a certified institution of nursery, where the children under three years of age were cared for by professional staff? Perhaps it would also be enough not to succumb to bad patterns from abroad and, on the contrary, to support our established and sophisticated pre-school care system, which is so envious of developed countries, and they do not understand our current steps leading to a reduction in the standard and quality of pre-school care. They'll come back to all of us, actually, they're coming back. Children's groups are a shining example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u57	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since I no longer have anyone enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant or rapporteur if they are interested in the final word. It's not like that. I therefore launch a detailed debate in which Mr Soukup, Mrs Semelová, Mrs Hnyková, Mrs Nohavová, Mrs Bohdalová, Mrs Nováková and Mrs Maxová are joined. Now please contact Mr Soukup's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment for which I have identified myself several times in the committee's and committee's deliberations as a kind of messenger of reconciliation. The peace lies in bringing the views of opposers and supporters of this law closer together. I recommend that the upper age limit for children be reduced to five years, considering the introduction of compulsory pre-school education in a proper kindergarten, which is in line with the government's programming declaration. I put the proposal in the system and got 905. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u59	Thank you. And now, please, with the priority right of Secretary Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u60	Hello. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I wanted § 95 para. 1 suggest shortening the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u61	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. After the end of the debate, we will vote on it. Now, please get to Mrs Semelová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u62	Thank you. I have already mentioned my amendments at first reading, where I have justified them, so I only formally sign up for Amendment 911 registered in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u63	Thank you. Now, please get to Mrs. Hnyková's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u64	Thank you. I'm not going to prolong it either. In a detailed debate, I am signing up for House document 916, which is in the system, and otherwise I have said my reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u65	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Nohavová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u66	Thank you. I sign up for my amendments, which are registered under number 759.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u67	Thank you. Now, please get to Mrs. Bohdalová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u68	Good afternoon, honourable Members. In the system, my amendment to press 82 is listed under number 870. I'm just going to briefly tell you what's going on. This is a shortening of the child's stay in the children's group in two variants. The first option is from one year up to four years of age. Or variant number 2 from one year up to five years of child. There's been a lot of talk here about the education and care plan, and I've had some problems with that, too. At first, I wanted it to be checked by school inspection, but that would just create a new school facility. Therefore, I propose that the processing and compliance of the education and care plan be controlled by the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. And lastly, and I think most importantly, it is not an amendment, but an accompanying resolution on this matter. We wouldn't be in such a critical situation today if, after kindergartens were interrupted at a time when they really weren't kids, I knew about it because I was the deputy mayor of education back then - but some of the municipalities had postponed the kindergartens, rented them out, and now they wanted to get them back online. But in the meantime, there have been changes in hygiene standards and municipalities can't give them back their original purpose, because it was originally that for each child there are 2.5 sqm of gardens. Meanwhile, this standard has been increased to four square meters of gardens, and so it has been that buildings that served as kindergartens 10, 15 years ago cannot currently serve as kindergartens. And they're further and further unnecessary hygiene measures. Therefore, I also attach an amending, supplementary resolution in order that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, should assess the existing hygienic parameters of the activities of kindergarten schools and the impact of the amendment of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended and implementing legislation for this law, on the applicability of the infrastructure of municipalities for pre-school education. (b) consider the revision of the health parameters of the activities of kindergartens in order to increase the usability of the existing infrastructure of municipalities for pre-school education. If this accompanying resolution had passed, and the ministers had started discussing this and adopted these milder hygiene rules, you would have seen how many municipalities would suddenly have no problems with expanding their kindergarten schools, where they are now restricted by these hygiene standards. And then I'd like one more thing. We're talking preschool education, and it's often called kindergarten. And actually the founder of preschool education Jan Amos Komenský wrote a piece called the School Informationatorium of Kindergarten. So let's not talk about schools, let's talk about schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Novak, and now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Nováková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u70	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would like to sign up for an amendment to the press 82. This amendment is included in the system as House Document No. 929. I would like to point out that the proposed regulation does not call into question vaccination as a possible effective protection against infectious diseases, but respects the right of parents to co-create an optimal individualised model that meets the needs of their child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u71	Thank you, Madame. Now, please get to Mrs. Maxová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u72	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for this amendment, which is registered under number 919 in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-004-010.u73	I thank you and, given that I have no one left to enter into the detailed debate, I conclude the detailed debate and ask the appellant or rapporteur whether they are interested in the final word. It's not like that. So before we proceed to the vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline for the third reading, I will call on my colleagues from the lobby. I'm also going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Thank you. I am now opening the vote on the applicant's proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to 48 hours. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 81, to which 111 Members are enrolled, of which 84 are in favour and 4 are against. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
