ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u1	62. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of equivalence of evidence of education issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic signed in Prague on 28 November 2013 /German press 134/ - second reading I will now ask the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Marcel Chládek, to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u2	Thank you, Mr President, so for the third time. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly mention this treaty, which is one of the other inheritances that I have taken over from my predecessors, so I will also ask here for the cooperation of the former Minister of Education, Mr Petr Fiala, if he can supplement me afterwards, because of course the process took place for him, so he can answer some of the questions himself. The preparation started in 2010 and it was under the responsibility of the Minister of Education Josef Dobeš, then the debate for Minister Petr Fiala continued and the debate for Minister Dalibor Štys was completed and the contract was signed on 28 November 2013. It was signed by then Czech Prime Minister Jiří Rusnok and Prime Minister of the Slovak Republic Robert Fic. The National Council of the Slovak Republic agreed to this ratification on 31 January 2014. With us now having the opportunity to decide whether we will also recommend ratification of this treaty. The Treaty provides for the recognition of educational documents, does not regulate professional qualifications, regulates the equivalence of educational completion documents at primary, secondary school, conservatory, higher vocational school. The documents shall be valid as equivalent in the territory of the other Contracting Party without the need for further official procedure. This Treaty also refers to higher education and the possibility of using academic degrees obtained on the other hand or in the other State. The exception to which this contract will not apply will include, among other things, Czech documents on higher education obtained in branches of Czech universities outside the Czech Republic and Slovak documents on higher education obtained in branches of Slovak universities outside the Slovak Republic. They will continue to be subject to routine nostrification procedures. This new treaty is intended to regulate the mutual obligations of the Czech and Slovak Republics concerning exclusively the area of academic recognition of educational documents, not professional ones, as I have already spoken in the past. It does not regulate the recognition of the degrees of the professor and professor, this has already been discussed in detail in the school committee, and I have also been asked in writing by Professor Zlatuška, who has asked a lot about the entire process, and I have described the whole process by letter, as I will now briefly list other Members and Members. One of the serious complaints I have and I have to agree with is that this agreement was not discussed with the representatives of universities, according to the information I have received earlier, because it was said in the past that this was not necessary. I think it might be, unfortunately it didn't happen. On the other hand, I also feel the need to say that by refusing to approve the ratification of this Treaty, there would be, among other things, major problems, which would be linked to the lack of simplification of the situation of Czech citizens who follow up their Czech education by studying in Slovakia, and this happens very often in the Czech Republic. So, honourable Members, by way of introduction on my part, the word of the petitioner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u3	Thank you, Minister. This proposal was directed to the Foreign Committee and the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 134/1 and 134/2. I would ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Jana Fischerová, to inform us of the committee's meeting and to present a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much, too, and now, as rapporteur, I will really just refer to the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Then I'll sign up for the debate. So the government proposal, as has already been said by the Minister - was signed on 28 November 2013, it was actually signed - for our party it was Prime Minister Rusnok and for the Slovak party it was Prime Minister Fico. Then 5. 3. 2014 the text of this Treaty has been sent international to all of us Members. 26. 3rd of this year, I see it as yesterday, when actually the Minister of the Environment, Mr Richard Brabec, read this. He presented the proposal for this treaty and we know that there was a debate at that time, unfortunately the Minister of Education was not there at the time, so it was released for reading to the Foreign Committee and to the Committee on Science, Education, Education, Culture and Youth, we all call it, as I heard from the Minister, the Education Committee. It's probably the most pregnant, the fastest. So on these two committees. And there were already questions raised, but then the referring Minister of the Environment, Mr Richard Brabec, on the spot, of course, we did not want to answer questions at first reading, because it was not from his resort directly. So the commandments were fulfilled, they were discussed in the Foreign Committee, that was the day... On April 15, it was the 9th meeting, and then it turned out that, on the one hand, there was a broad debate around this international treaty. And since we know that the negotiation of an international treaty is not just something, it is really an important matter, so there was a broad debate and a resolution was finally adopted, I will say - eight members of the foreign committee present was in favour, no one opposed, one abstained. So much to say as rapporteur of the Foreign Committee. And so I will read the foreign committee's recommendation, with reference to a detailed debate, I will take the liberty. So this foreign committee recommends The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies gives consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of equivalence of evidence of education issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, signed on 28 November 2013 in Prague. Furthermore, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So short my report for the Foreign Committee, and I am still reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u5	Thank you, and now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Jiří Zlatuška, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the school committee, we have addressed this Treaty not only in terms of the formal process by which the Treaty was adopted, but especially in terms of content. In terms of content, the contract is problematic in those parts, in which it differs from the contract, which is now in the area of recognition of educational documents and other titles in effect. [[16.50 hours]] There is a lack of recognition of the qualifications of the professor and professor compared to the current state. Sometimes it's simply called titles. I stress that the title of professor and professor is not in any law in the Czech Republic. He has been in one proposal since social democracy in 1997, but this does not exist as a title here and it is a qualification which the higher education law requires for the performance of certain types of activities, such as membership of certain commissions in state examinations, appointment or habilitation proceedings, and subsequently in some provisions for accreditation, respectively. in the register of professors and professors. The absence of professors and professors, recognition, may seem logical at first sight in view of the fact that this is not really evidence of education achieved, however the reference report on this contract states, and it is on the first page of the last paragraph - it is directly stipulated in the draft contract that the contract does not regulate the equivalence of evidence of education with a view to accessing regulated professions. The above is related to the fact that the draft contract does not entail recognition of the equivalence of academic degrees of professor and professor. This passage from the reference report actually states that the qualification of the associate professor and professor is regarded as proof of access to a regulated profession, and in that case the 2005 European Convention would apply. This would mean that the indirect consequence of such an approach would also be the recognition of documents or previous practice from any other country of the European Union, i.e. paradoxically not the narrowing of the recognition of professors and professors' qualifications, but their extension. The 2005 European Convention states that when states do not issue specific evidence of access to regulated professions, in such a case, it is sufficient for a worker to carry out the activity in full employment for two years in the last ten years. In other words, for example, it would be enough to find a suitable European country with some relatively inferior non-state private school, to be employed there for two years and then to return to the Czech Republic and insist that this must be recognised here. This would be a secondary consequence if what is written in the presentation report was correct. As far as this is concerned, I must state that this is the reference report which was prepared in previous periods, namely, as has already been said, under the responsibility of the Minister of Education, Fiala and his first Deputy Minister Nantl, who, according to all the records of the discussion of this agreement at the Ministry of Education, was in charge of this matter. On the contrary, the current deputy for legislation, doktor Mlsna, provided us with a different interpretation and gave us a written opinion saying that it is not true that the rank of associate professor and professor here could be regarded as regulated professions. He referred to the paragraph in the presentation report as incorrect, and on 23 May this year he provided a three-page document providing a different meaning for these terms, specifically with regard to the European Directive on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, or Directive No. 2005/36/EC. The problem that arises is that, from the point of view of not being titles, but the exercise of the authorization, there is a twofold possible interpretation that concerns what would happen when habilitation and appointment proceedings cease to be recognised between the Czech Republic and Slovakia. One interpretation, to which a number of lawyers lean, says that in the future they would also lose the authorisation of those who obtained a habilitation degree or a profession in Slovakia to carry out relevant activities, e.g. operating in the State Final Examinations Committees or in the naming committees after this Treaty has entered into force here. The Deputy Minister for Legislation operated on the Vienna Convention for the negotiation of interstate treaties, which prohibits retroactive action, but the Vienna Convention obliges States and the Convention is subject to individual States which negotiate interstate agreements, not citizens. From the point of view of the appeal to the consequences of the Vienna Convention, it is therefore not clear how individual holders of qualifications should actually apply to the Convention, they should refer to it in a different way than by referring to this Convention, for example, to request the abolition of this Treaty currently under consideration. There's definitely no direct execubility. Interpretative problems mean that there would be a potential problem which in individual universities, individual universities, will effectively address the personnel departments of individual schools. There is no tool to harmonise unclear interpretations in any other way than to rely on later judicates, and thus unclear state of affairs in this matter for the future. As regards -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u7	Mr rapporteur, I am sorry, I will enter your speech. I will ask you if it is possible for you, as rapporteur, to present the Committee's resolution at this point, and with the next one, to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u8	I'm summarizing what's been discussed on the committee. That's part of my intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u9	That's part of your intelligence report. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u10	On the committee we discussed another matter that the Czech Republic currently has four agreements with other states that govern the recognition of qualifications, namely the Treaty with Germany, the Treaty with Poland, the Treaty with Hungary and the Treaty with Slovenia. The agreement with Germany explicitly provides for the recognition of habilitation procedures, in other words the recognition of docentures between the two states, and it is therefore a much more universal contract than even the one currently in force with Slovakia. The recognition of donors and professors is also the content of the contract with Poland, and the same can be done from the agreement with Hungary. So the other problem that would arise here would be a different recognition regime that would apply to these listed countries and Slovakia, as this treaty would change here. [[17,00 hours]] Before the meeting of our committee, I also requested opinions from universities and the Accreditation Commission, because, again, at the time of the hearing, the Ministry of Education did not consider it appropriate to proceed as Minister of Fiala or Minister of Dobeš in consultation with the representation of universities. I asked what the consequences would be from the point of view of individual universities. The Chair of the Accreditation Commission reports that this could create better conditions for quality assurance in higher education and supports its ratification. However, in view of what was said by Deputy Mlsna, it would be paradoxically that those less quality titles would be recognized and the better ones would not. The Czech Rectors' Conference sent its members, i.e. individual universities, rectors, a question of how much they consider to be a threat to their schools' accreditations if this contract were accepted. Several schools see the threat of accreditation: Palacký University in Olomouc, University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences Brno, Mendel University in Brno, University of Hradec Králové, University of South Bohemia in České Budějovice, University of Silesia in Opava, University of Jan Evangelista Purkyně in Ústí nad Labem, University of West Bohemia in Pilsen, University of Tomáš Bata in Zlín, University of Polytechnic Jihlava, Police Academy of the Czech Republic, Bank Institute of Higher Education, and. ., University of Hotels in Prague, University of Management Informatics and Economics, University of International and Public Relations, University of European and Regional Studies, NEWTON College, University of Logistics, University of Health. It can mostly be said that regional schools could be affected by this and, at the same time, it could be affected by schools which have a narrow definition of the field, such that they rely on colleagues from Slovakia and on continuity, which has been there since the division of Czechoslovakia into two states. The College Council also gave a negative opinion on this treaty and recommends that ratification be rejected. You got your opinion by e-mail, so I'm gonna leave this one out. It was the subject of committee discussions again. Overall, the outcome of the committee's discussions was that with a overwhelming majority of all the votes of the committee members present with one delay, the committee decided that the committee did not recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to give consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of the equivalence of documents and education. He shall instruct the President to submit this report to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u11	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for a truly comprehensive intelligence report. [[Big noise in the hall, discussing the crowds.]] I am now opening the debate. At this point, I'm registering three logged in. At the same time, I would like to ask you, colleagues, if you need to discuss this before the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can hear those who have signed up for the debate here. [[Smile among those listening with a note that only need to be in front of the Chamber.]] Better in front of the Chamber. [[with a smile]] Right. Am I registering here - Mr Marek Černoch has an objection?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u12	Good evening. Just for the stew. I voted against rejection for vote number 33, so if I can fix it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u13	Okay. So only for the log. Thank you. I have here one point of fact - Mrs Dobešová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u14	Good evening, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. I am proposing that we suspend this item until the next due date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-013-062.u15	Okay. As this is a procedural proposal, we will vote immediately. Anyway, I have a comment to unsubscribe here, so I'm gonna check you all out first and ask you to log back into the system. I'll call my colleagues from the outside to let them know there's going to be a vote. We will vote on a procedural proposal to suspend this item until the next proper session of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? I'm ending vote number 38. Members present are 139, for the resolution thus proposed is 133, against 2. This means that I am interrupting this point, as proposed in the resolution. Before we go any further, I have one more apology. He apologizes for the meeting on 11. 6. from 17:00 until the end of the meeting for personal reasons, Minister Věra Jourová. Colleagues and colleagues, before we proceed to discuss the bill returned to the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow these senators to speak - we will vote on it. There are two names. It's Senator Petr Bratský and Senator Jaroslav Sykáček. I'm asking if I can put a vote together on both names or if you have an objection. I don't see an objection. In that case, I will vote on the possibility of the two senators speaking. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of allowing these senators to appear here? All in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? I'm ending vote number 39. There are 140 Members present, for there were 122, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Information on the Senate's amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. And I'm saying that we've made a proposal for the senator's performance. So I'm gonna start talking point number.
