ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-003-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, and Other Related Laws /German Press 261/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-003-008.u2	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, allow me to present the first of the series of proposals from the Ministry of Justice workshop. They all have in common that they are in line with the Government's programming declaration, and we are doing our legislative tasks. In addition, the first draft law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters and, of course, other related laws will also fulfil our obligations in the area of implementation of European law, and at the same time correspond to the provisions of Section 88b to the point where, for the purposes of domestic law, we already have a series of preliminary measures, whose main purpose and mission is to protect the victim of the crime from possible other possible attacks of criminally prosecuted persons, respectively. offenders. In order for this protection to be effective, it is, of course, necessary to ensure its validity and effectiveness beyond the borders of the Czech Republic in accordance with European directives. In particular, it concerns the implementation of Directive 2011/99 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order. As in domestic legislation, the aim is to ensure cross-border protection of victims of crime and persons close to victims -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-003-008.u3	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. I'll ask the House of Honor to keep it down. Madam Secretary doesn't have a voice strong enough to yell at you, and she's a lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-003-008.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll try to strengthen my voice. - which may endanger her life, health or dignity. The quoted directive regulates a new form of judicial cooperation, which allows, in the event that, in one EU Member State, including the Czech Republic, a measure is taken to protect the victim from any form of harassment, kidnapping, dangerous persecution and other forms of indirect coercion by the criminal offence, and that victim moves or stays in another EU Member State for a longer period of time, and the intention is sufficient to delay there in order to request the issuing of a European protection order, on the basis of which the Member State is then obliged to provide him with the same protection as in the country, or, as I have quoted, under the Criminal Code, with the form of interim measures. In the Czech Republic, a European protection order will be issued in particular, or not only exclusively, on the basis of a preliminary measure prohibiting contact with certain persons, a provisional measure prohibiting entry into the home, a provisional measure prohibiting residence in a specific place, a decision on diversions, decisions imposing penalties or proportionate obligations or measures and decisions taken in the framework of the enforcement procedure, provided that any prohibition foreseen by the European Directive is imposed under those decisions. If a European protection order issued by another EU Member State is recognised in the Czech Republic, it can be imposed as an appropriate measure to protect such a victim of criminal activity by members of another EU Member State some of the preliminary measures, and we have a really rich palette there, which will allow all the available possibilities of the Code of Criminal Procedure to be exhausted. Furthermore, the draft law complements certain specific provisions relating to the application of international judicial cooperation in juvenile criminal matters, which take into account the specific, different terminology and the type of sanctions that can be imposed on young people, such as decisions on the imposition of protective education or the imposition of educational measures. In view of the need to ensure compliance with the implementation deadline of the European Protection Order Directive, which will expire on 11 January 2015, and in accordance with Article 91 (1) of the Treaty, 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to ask you to shorten the time limit for discussing this House's press in the Constitutional Committee by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-003-008.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Lukáš Pleticha - who I do not see here. Well, we're good here today from ten to five. [[Agree to see who will represent the rapporteur.]] Mr Chvojka will probably represent the Member if he has no objection to anyone. Does anyone object to the amendment of the rapporteur? He doesn't. I will therefore vote preventively on turning Mr Lukáš Pleticha's rapporteur into Mr Chvojka. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 163, 132 Members and Members, for 88, against 1. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-003-008.u6	Thank you for your confidence. I'm honored to represent my colleague Pleticha in this place. As the House has been running for the last few weeks, it can sometimes happen that a person is somewhere else than where he should be, so basically, I'm just going to follow up on what the Minister has said, which introduced this law, I think, in an extensive and flawless way. I beg your release for the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-003-008.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I am not registering an application at the moment. If no one really applies, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister, or the rapporteur. Not interested. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. So we're going to vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee? I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[The Minister is failing to sign up.]] It is vote number 164, 133 Members and Members registered, for 91, against none. Madam Secretary doesn't want to question the vote? [[No.]] I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I conclude the first reading of this government proposal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Madam Secretary has proposed a shortening of the deadline. We will therefore continue with the vote to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days. Initiating vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 165, 134 Members and Members are registered, for 85, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee and reduced the deadline by 30 days. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur, who came to him as blind to the violins. [[16.00 hours]] The next item is:
