ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u1	177. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The first is the disapproval of Mr. František Vácha. The answer was made by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on systemic actions to prevent abuse of the position of Minister of Finance. It is a suspended response to this interpellation and the word is spoken by Mr František Vácha. I will ask for peace so that I can give Mr Vách the floor and that the Prime Minister hears his continuing reservations about the response to this interpelation. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, I did my interpelation sometime in early April after the Minister of Finance expressed himself in the media something in the sense that he would send control to Echo 24. I got 30 answers. 4. It got on the agenda in May, where I didn't get on the agenda. Then it was on the agenda of the June meeting, where the Prime Minister was not present, and we are only getting there today, i.e. After six months, after six months, I feel like it's been quite a long time to talk about things that were sometimes six months ago. However, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for being present. In that time, in that six-month period, there have been much more serious problems that the government has to deal with and which it does not solve, however, when we look at how many points we have, there are 179 of them at this meeting, now we have solved some, and in a day and a half we have been able to deal with some eight points, and one point we have been dealing with almost the whole day when you convinced us, as Mr Kalousek correctly said, you have tried to convince us that your Minister of Finance is lying. Mr. Kalousek told you he was telling the truth. Based on these facts, I would give up my right to respond to my interpelation today, and I would devote my time to dealing with the things we have on our agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u3	Thank you, Mr Vách. The Prime Minister is interested in a replica. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, as Mr Vácha has already said, this up-to-date event, which he has intersected, is an earlier date, but the Member has requested that I, as Prime Minister, propose and introduce effective measures in the Government to prevent and inform the Chamber of Deputies. After all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the meantime, this Chamber of Deputies approved an amendment to the Civil Service Act. It has approved it by an absolute majority of votes, with the support of a wider than just the government coalition's votes, and if there were any doubts that one of the members of the government might have taken advantage of his office, and I say, it was merely doubts and no evidence has been presented here, and it has not been presented in the past few months, then I think that the best preventive system measure is that, as of 1 January next year, thanks to the support of this Chamber of Deputies, the Civil Service Act, which will undoubtedly strengthen the impartiality of the state administration, will strengthen the expertise of the state administration, will contribute to its stabilization. Because when the next election to the Chamber of Deputies comes, it will no longer be as easy as today to make fundamental personal changes in the state administration, but there will be certain insurance policies and counter-insurances, which, in accordance with the tradition of developed countries in Western Europe, will prevent the very technical character of the state apparatus and the fact that this state apparatus remains impartial, so that it remains neutral, to naturally implement government policy, but not to submit to some personal decisions and personal pressures of government officials in terms of a very concrete decision, for example. in matters which are subject to administrative proceedings. Here I think we have taken very important systemic measures together. We didn't make it because of the particular case you mentioned, it's not. We made it because of the experience we have done in the Czech Republic over the past 25 years. I think we have evaluated the experience in the right way, after all, and we have evaluated it in the way that the European Commission recommends. I have heard a number of recommendations here, particularly from the right side of the Chamber of Deputies, in recent weeks, that the Czech Republic should act in accordance with other EU countries. In this case, we are proceeding in accordance with the other EU countries and we are introducing a new law, a really new system of public administration organisation on the basis of the Civil Service Act. This will naturally also affect the tax administration, customs administration, the Office of State representation in property matters, i.e. and organisations that are directly subordinate to the Ministry of Finance. I feel so much in need, Mr Member, to respond to your question, to respond to your comment, so that I can take advantage of the possibility that I am here as Prime Minister to respond to written interpelations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. The chairman of the ODS Club has applied. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u6	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the Prime Minister's performance. I mean, I agree with him that it's a good thing that we've adopted a new service law, and we're applying to the agreement, and it's a precaution. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he could take the weight of his authority to be respected by the ministers from now on or from the time we approved him, although it will probably be effective from 1 January. Let me give you a specific example. A few days after we approved here - I say we appreciate the deal - the Minister of Transport fired the Chief Law Officer, an experienced official. I got it from open sources in the paper. In the TV debate that I attended, Minister Prachař said that the reason was that the head of legislation had withheld from him that RIA was needed in the key Lining Construction Act. That's a really smiling reason if the minister doesn't know, after eight months in government, that RIA is supposed to be on key laws... so he certainly can't throw it. As a result, in my opinion, there has been a complete breakdown of the legislative team at the Ministry of Transport and, unfortunately, there will be delays in key laws, and those laws in transport almost never have a classic right-wing character and centre, such as taxes, social systems, health systems, etc. I agree with the part which the Prime Minister said is that the best prevention is that on January 1 or January 2 would no longer be possible if the legislative process were to end as we wish, i.e. It will be effective from 1 January. Rather, because the law is not effective yet, it is neither valid nor effective for ministers to behave as much as possible in the nature of the law and not to fire key civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u7	Thank you. Mr. Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u8	Thank you. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer, but I think it was enough to say: we passed the law. And the rest of the talk around, it was just useless blah, blah.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u9	Prime Minister. Maybe he can put an end to this sub-item. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u10	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I like to speak in the Chamber of Deputies, I like to walk among Members and Members. I think it is appropriate for the Prime Minister to be here. And yet, honourable Member, you wouldn't want me to just sit here and keep my mouth shut. Especially if you give me a written interview, and especially if you ask that the interpelation be dealt with orally here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't want to go into any interpretation here right now, some debate about the meaning of the word to discuss interpelation, right here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but I understand that my written answer was not enough for you, and that you therefore require the addition of this written reply to the plenary. So I had to step out of character. And I'm sure I can't live up to one sentence if we're making a revolution in the state administration with our common forces and your forces, and I thank you for making a revolution in the state administration here, and finally, from January 1st next year, here will be an amendment to the Civil Service Act. It's been shutting down for 12 years. I think it's time we brought this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. Another colleague Vácha and a colleague Heger reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u12	Well, it looks like none of us are gonna quit and one of us is gonna have to have the last word. I, Prime Minister, renounced my claim for an answer, so you volunteered. I gave that time to the House to discuss the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u13	Well, that, of course, is nice of you, Mr. Ambassador, but we're still discussing only answers to written interpelations from 9:00 to 11:00. With a point of fact, Mr Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, since the Civil Service Act has been negotiated in a way that does not have a tradition in this House, and it is indeed the state's position of all those involved, including the Prime Minister, I would add one more story when the Prime Minister is so pleased that these things are being discussed here. And I'm adding that story to join President Stanjura's opinion so that the law will begin to apply, at least informally, right now. In Hradec Králové I got information about how one of the relatively high-ranking officials from the financial office, now the regional, who lost his job when the financial authorities were merged into the regional structure, was now thrown out of that place under the head of the reorganisation. Supposedly, this is a transfer of about 60 auditors from the regional financial authorities to the Ministry of Finance with the dismissal of part of those people. He was informed by the Ministry of Finance that, given that he is running in a high position in the big city for the TOP 09, he is a security risk to the Ministry of Finance. The way I know him, he certainly isn't. And it's just one piece into the mosaic of what was going on in the state administration, and it's still unfortunately happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u15	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. Since Mr František Vácha does not ask for a vote to refuse an answer, this is the end of the item. The second rejection was the response of the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař to the interpelling of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on the preparation and implementation of the construction of buildings "Silnice I/11 Opava, northern bypass, eastern part" and "Krnov, northeast bypass" according to the House Press 241. The Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař is not present, he is excused, but, of course, we will address the answer and be on the Member's side to this. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u16	I would say, as usual, the Minister of Transport is excused from the intercession. However, I will propose a resolution to the House that it opposes the answer. And the reason is pretty simple. First I'm gonna give you the reason, and then I'm gonna give you a little bit of a description of the problem I asked you. I asked five questions to the Minister of Transport, and I received - if I were very generous - two and a half answers. It's not that we don't agree in any way, but I want the House to vote that I have a different opinion than the Minister. Just when you read it calmly, an interview from May and an answer from June, you compare five specific questions and compare the answers, there's just two and a half answers missing. And I would like to learn them not in oral debate, but in written form. These were points relating to the immediately western part of the Moravian-Silesian region. When very often, especially during the election period, many politicians, perhaps all who are running for office, we want to help the region, which is worse affected than others, and they offer recipes. [[unintelligible]] I believe that one of the best recipes is when the government invests state money in meaningful and efficient projects, especially in transport infrastructure. I think it's much better than inventing some pilot programs for start-up entrepreneurs, such entrepreneurs tested-untested. This is a good way to go. I insisted on it because, as the Minister of Transport, I knew that the events were ready and that they could have been competed this year. I said I got half the answers. The Minister also refers in his reply to the Government's resolution in which he submitted his material to the Government in which he informed the Government of the significant public contracts in the Transport Department in 2014. There are dates for the opening of the tender, which is perfectly logical, because the termination of each of you who has ever administered or knows any other contract, you don't know whether it will take five months or 18. But I understand there's a start somewhere. And maybe it's a good thing that they didn't get to the interview sooner, because if I read that the competition for the contractor to bypass Opava will be announced in August in an answer from May or June, and I know that the project documentation for the award of the competition is just competing, I just know that this year it won't be. Although the material approved by the government was the date of August, even though we have dramatic problems with the use of funds. And by putting the competitions off, we wouldn't have solved it in 2014, but we're making the same problem for 2015. When he comes here at the end of September and then we discuss the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in the coming months, I will discuss this in more detail. There's a nice sum of 94 billion. For now, we'll see what the final form will be when the government approves. However, today it is certain that the number only looks nice and will not be exhausted. And out of the 94 billion, to be clear, that's not new money for transport. There's 18 billion written undrawn money from 2014. I would like to ask you, as a Member, not of opposition, but as a Member of the Moravian-Silesian region, to support meaningful investment projects in our region in general. I think there are two regions in particular that deserve this, namely Moravian-Silesian and Ústecký. If these events are arranged, they need to be competed and implemented. And I ask you to support my disapproval for the Chamber of Deputies. I'm saying because I didn't get two and a half answers out of five. I could say three, but I've admitted it as a partial to that one. I think the information can be updated if the Department of Transport processes it again, and we get new information and it will be important information for all citizens of the western part of the Moravian-Silesian region, because this is communication and these are bypasses that will connect these parts of our region to the D47 motorway earlier today, the D1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u17	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. In the debate, Mr Miroslav Opálka will continue to speak and Mr František Laudát will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, there are times when party shirts take off and dress regionally. But I think that in this case it is not so much the general justice of aid in the development of those regions that, unlike others, have greater problems. Moravian-Silesian County waited long enough to get to him. Before he got his turn and was connected to the highway network. Unfortunately, as we find out, poor quality and incomplete. In order to move something in this matter, an association was established under the name Silesian Cross, which deals with transport through this region both east - west and north - south. Within these intentions, both the municipal authorities and the region have done an incredible job and now, of course, waiting to help the last one who decides, and this is the government virtually. through the Ministry of Transport. We've experienced the construction industry and its interruption. I hate to think about it, but if you're going between Opava and Ostrava, you've been going through a construction site for three years. I don't want to say what it would mean if it was cold -- I don't think anyone's gonna make it there because you have nowhere to roll the snow away. And now it is about connecting the way from Ostrava to the west, not only to the eleventh, but also to the Polish drawer, and also to the Dresden - Žilina route across the north, which is much simpler and closer to Prague than through Brno, and it would certainly relieve traffic to D1. So this is very well thought out, but as the ministers of transport changed and their belonging to different regions, intentions and deadlines changed. And if you want to help one region, you're moving the other and you're actually creating a certain amount of cotton because you're budgeting the funds for an action that isn't quite ready. Then it becomes apparent, and then with some will, you move the funds where you feel nice. We'd really like it to get to us. For this reason, the initiative of municipalities, regions, is also towards the government. And not only to this government, but also to previous governments. I would appeal to you to assess the problem when we all say that it is necessary to help those more backward regions that may have sacrificed themselves for this republic in the past, to return to them what they have given to other regions in the past, perhaps even more ancient ones, and to judge this answer really not from the point of view of "I am from another region," but if those questions really were answered as they should have been answered. So I also appeal to the Minister, who, of course, is familiar with the situation during the run - and I must say that the intensity of the negotiations with his deputies was great - in order to give this region maximum attention. He deserves it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u19	I thank Mr Opálek. Before Mr. František Laudát speaks, I'm just stating an apology. Minister Válková explained - as she first apologized for the afternoon, then canceled it, so she apologizes within 10 hours, comes soon. A colleague of František Laudát has the floor for his performance. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, if the Minister of Transport's apology applies throughout the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u21	Yes, it goes for the whole day. Minister Prachař apologizes for the morning and afternoon part of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u22	Well, I'm very sorry. In that case, I'm here to address the Prime Minister and all of you, so that next week, on some date, I don't care when, and I'll try to reason with Mr. Sklenák. I do not want to play politics, but I consider the situation of the Ministry of Transport's investment to be so serious about personnel matters that I believe the House should deal with this. And I really say, I don't want to play a political issue in this case. Regardless, Mr. Babiš has been reporting something about fucking highways for almost a year now, not only in the election campaign, but also after the election campaign. But the situation, when it comes to e.g. The reconstruction of the D1 motorway is so serious, the things that are taking place there seem to be a breach of the Public Procurement Act, it is beginning to grow into one great chaos, on which certain strange consultancy companies can recover, etc. If the Minister isn't here, then in that case, I don't know if I'm gonna talk to the wind... I originally considered intersecting the Prime Minister about what he would do with the situation at the Ministry of Transport. Then I gave up because I wanted to give the Minister of Transport a chance to comment on specific matters first. I've got a D8 slide, a D11 and two or three sections to D1. Please, in that case, if he's not here, I really don't know if there's any point in interpelling into the wind. I even wanted to contact him first in the first phase with oral interpelations. It's all things that aren't from the past. These are things that already concern his head of the resort. And I understand that maybe the YES movement and the government won't start changing ministers before the election, I understand that. But especially with the traffic, I'm afraid this resort is growing into chaos, which is comparable only to the time when constructions were stopped, where the roads of I. class I/11 also belonged. Unfortunately, I was then - although I am not from Opava, as the Prime Minister asked, but I am one of those who takes the Republic as one country, not regionally - promoting and suggesting that the money shifted from the unsuccessful preparation of the Prague Circuit to just part of the investment. And I didn't, for example, reach. on this road, to the SAO to examine the impact of Bártův's steps on this communication. So I'll come up next week with a proposal, and please don't take it politically, so we'll deal with the transport minister's situation at the Department of Transport in the presence of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u23	I thank Mr František Laudát. Mr Václav Klučka, enrolled in the debate, will now appear. And we have a colleague, Stanjur, who has already said in his first speech that he will demand that the answer be rejected. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm from Opava. I have to admit it. But it doesn't mean that at this point, and I am absolutely convinced that it would be some sort of conflict of interest. The truth is that an initiative was created in Opava, which dealt with things about the absolutely catastrophic transport situation on the I/11 road. The initiative that brought together the region, the municipalities, has brought together the organization to make some progress to achieve a reconstruction that will reduce the loss of human lives. And I know what I'm talking about. There is a section in this road where we could already count dozens of victims in lives just because the road is not able to cope with the situation between Opava and Ostrava, that this road is narrow, that this road has such risky places that deserve immediate but immediate assistance. And we weren't getting any immediate help. Then suddenly it got and came Minister Bárta, Minister of Transport Bárta, who stopped all other investments on this construction, the means that it cost, the preservation of this construction. These funds came essentially from the state budget without having any effect - conservation of the construction. Then the Minister of Transport arrived - I will say that he was a colleague of Stanjura, who suddenly started these work and these work continued. He's from Opava, my colleague. He's from Opava. And I'd like to invite you to these places to see what we're talking about today. The activity of the city of Opava and the whole association was an activity related to further modification of communication beyond the city of Opava, in Bruntálsko, in Oboblažsko. All of this had meaning in transit to Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the answer, and I do not understand some of the answers given. I do not want to be a judge of the person who processed this answer, signed by Minister Prachař. But I heard the Minister also in a recent discussion on the Czech TV, I think it was Sunday in Questions by Václav Moravec, and I was very much upset and wondering if I understood all the words that explained some of the questions that were asked there. Ladies and gentlemen, although I am a coalition MP, I am not going to advise the government, and I will not want any conclusions. The government itself will assess the situation. I would just ask that we understand that these circumstances will either be explained or someone will have to bear their responsibility in this situation. I'd like to make sure that all that follows doesn't mean any more losses on this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u25	Thank you, colleague Klučka. Mr. Stanjura, so far the last enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u26	Thank you. Just a little while longer. I want to say that in our city and in our region, we are having a political fight, and you can trust me that we do not donate quite enough, but the area of transport is the one in which a consensus was found both in the city and in the region. The first Regional Council adopted a crucial strategic document on transport in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Today is the fourth regional council, the roles completely changed, the coalition and the opposition, and the document is valid because we agreed with the opposition in 2001, so it applies in 2014 and a piece was done. I want to say to those who are smiling that the Opava Members are speaking, that we are not lobbying for anything. The actions are prepared, have a building permit and have appropriations earmarked in the budget. We just want those who can, quickly compete and trigger it. Everything else has been done. In addition to municipalities, there were business entities in the I/11 association, which we founded together in 1999. Once again, there were representatives of all the political groups who succeeded on the I/11-I/57 route. Just to understand us, we do not lobby for taking money and handing it over to us at the expense of someone else, another region. We have events in our region. There's money ready. It just has to go off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u27	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one reports, we will decide in the vote that the Chamber of Deputies rejects the reply of the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař to the interview by Zbyněk Stanjura according to the press 241. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please register with your identification cards to find out the exact number of Members present. The moment the number of people is settled, we will decide on this proposal. I've begun the vote on order number 44. I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to reject the response to the interpelation. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 44 of 80 for 51, against 16. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Mr. Transport Minister Antonín Prachař will have to respond to this interpelation again. That's what we've dealt with with press 241. Let's keep going. The third order is the rejection of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's interpelation, who intersected the Prime Minister on obstacles put by members of the government coalition needed to valorize social scholarships by university students. Interpelation has been delivered to you as a House press 265. I ask Mr Miroslav Grebeníček if he wants to state why he refused the Prime Minister's reply. Yes, it is. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has just been mentioned, I have consulted the Prime Minister in writing on the obstacles put by Members of the government coalition needed to valorise the social scholarships of university students, given the composition of the House, in which the current government coalition has the key to resolving this situation. The nature of the problem at issue is known to most of you from the House's meetings, but to many as well as from the meetings of the two Houses of Committees, the School and Social Committees. This is an increase in social scholarships from CZK 1,220 to CZK 2,100. If the current government coalition declared that its approach to social issues, but also to education and education, would be different from their predecessors, the members of the coalition could have easily demonstrated this in this particular case. However, this did not happen on the school and social committee. Members of the ČSSD, ANO and KDU-ČSL in violation of the recommendation of the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek proposed to reject the amendment. At a time when, according to expert conclusions now referred to by the current formation of the Ministry of Education, the cost of living associated with the study is already becoming one of the relevant obstacles of applicants and students from socially weak families to access education. The Ministry of Education even mentions that there is a de facto restriction on the right to equal access to education in the case of socially weak students. In this situation, I felt it was necessary to address the Prime Minister directly by writing an interview. If the Ministry has the means to increase, and if the Minister supports the amendment to the Higher Education Act, then the existing opposition to the valorisation of social scholarships by students of Bachelor's and Master's study programmes by ČSSD members, YES and KDU-ČSL in these Houses of Committees can only be explained by the poor implementation of government policy by the cabinet as a whole and by the failure of the entire government coalition. [[10.10 hours]] Prime Minister Sobotka's claim that the obstacles put in the way of the proposal to increase social scholarships go to the head of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports cannot be accepted in the knowledge of the procedures for the functioning of the government coalition and the style of its negotiations, but also in the knowledge of all facts about the actual course of negotiations. I would therefore welcome the Prime Minister at least now to comment on his personal responsibility for the government coalition's policy, precisely in relation to the valorisation of social scholarships. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u29	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk for his presentation to the press 265. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, applied for the floor. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u30	Thank you. I would first of all like to say, honourable Member, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, that I support the Institute of Social Scholarships, because I believe that this is one of the tools which helps to keep our public education system sufficiently accessible and accessible to students from all social groups. I also want to confirm that the Minister of Education, and I can only speak here for the government, virtually. for the Minister of Education, supports the idea of increasing social scholarships in universities. And I can also confirm that as part of the upcoming amendment to the Higher Education Act, According to the information received from the Ministry, the Ministry of Education incorporated a similar proposal as contained in the amendment to the Higher Education Act, mentioned by Mr Grebeníček, into the Government Amendment to Act No. 111/1998 Coll. in case this amendment is not approved for any reason here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, for myself and for the Minister of Education, I do not oppose negotiations to achieve a legislative change that would allow social scholarships to be increased. In fact, I don't see conflict here. The conflict is how these proposals are discussed on individual committees. I cannot speak here for the entire government coalition, I can only speak here for social democracy, and from the perspective of social democracy, I do not see any obstacles to increasing social scholarships. With regard to the coalition's position, we will still have to discuss this issue in the coalition in order to try to unite in this matter. That is basically all I can say about this proposal. If the parliamentary amendment is not adopted, the Government is willing, the Ministry of Education is willing to address this case and this problem within the framework of the Government's draft law on higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u31	I thank Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr Grebeníček has yet to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u32	I want to thank you for the correct position of Prime Minister Sobotk. Just for the record. During the discussion of the issue in the committee, in short, the pupils were also journalists and subsequently some published their impressions. We meet repeatedly with the rejection of the machinery of government Members mostly with the justification that the proposed law or amendment prepared by the members of the opposition are non-systemic. The last non-systemic step was the proposal to increase the social scholarship from the current amount of CZK 1,220 to CZK 2,100. The journalist goes on to say: It was futile to point out that, while in 2004, the study of one child at a public college was about 3.5 thousand. CZK a month, today it's an average of 9,000. Crowns. And two or three more points. It is said in these texts: The bill went to second reading with the support of the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek. Social Democrats from the Czech Social Democratic Party therefore agree with the words of Jiří Zlatuška, the ANO movement, the chair of the school committee, according to which the social scholarship does not fall under the higher education law. Finally, the observation of the journalists present - and outside the official record he said it was understood from the committee chair, it was said that this law would increase the popularity of the KSČM, which he said he could not agree with. So is it even more important than budget responsibility to present the law? No, I really didn't want to believe this, but my approach moved significantly after reading this text: The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, wrote the Emeritus Rector of Masaryk University Jiří Zlatuška in May last year, failing in the system of support for students from lower income groups. It also stated that below-average revenues relate to more than 60 per cent of the working population. Jiří Zlatuška strongly criticized the reform of tertiary education, when some investigators took for themselves amounts exceeding 1 million. CZK annually, however, did not develop the applicable model. The current government, then mentioned Jiří Zlatuška to Nečasův' cabinet, has the preparation of the law on financial assistance to students in its programming statement. With nothing useful, Jiří Zlatuška was angry, but she has not yet come up in a hint. At the moment we came up with a clear indication, even the Social Democrat Members voted against in that committee. Under these circumstances, I must state and ask you to take a disagreeable position. No, it's not an invasion of the Prime Minister, he's acting the way he's acting and how he's performing here, but what's going on around this bill, I just have to categorically reject it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u33	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk and I have no one else to sign up for the debate. We will vote against the Prime Minister's reply in the next vote, but first I will sign you all out, ask for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of people is settled - and I would ask colleagues to calm down, we will decide to express consent or disagreement, respectively. the proposal is to disagree with the Prime Minister's reply to Miroslav Grebeníček's interview in the 45 vote that I launched, and I ask who is in favour of the proposal not to accept the Prime Minister's reply. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 45 of the 86 present for 32, against 33. The motion was not accepted. The Chamber of Deputies therefore does not require a change of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's response to this interpelation. The next item is the interpelation of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček in the case of Law No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches, religious societies, according to the House's press 313. Mr Grebeníček refused the Prime Minister's reply and I ask if he wants to justify his refusal. [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my written interview of 16 July this year, I referred to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka in the case of Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies. In this interview, I reminded him of his words that the church, whose mind was darkened by the desire for property, traditionally provokes opposition in society. I also reminded him of his public appearance when he told the citizens that the Czech Social Democratic Party considered the religious restitution imposed by the government of Petr Nečas as unfair, overpriced and high-risk to the state. I cannot forget the pre-election words of the President of the Czech Social Democratic Party, who then said that the payment of financial compensation cannot be accepted by social democracy and cannot afford it even by our state budget. The attempt to transfer the payments of so-called church restitutions to future governments and generations was called cowardly by colleague Tejc and contrary to the pre-election promises to reduce debt. Cardinal Miloslav vlk, who publicly declared: Mr Sobotka would like to impose on us thinking from the beginning of communism, when the totalitarian regime declared religious faith a private matter that must not enter public life. And Cardinal Dominik Duka went further when he compared the Vice-President of the Czech Social Democratic Party Lubomír Zaorálek to the main idealist of former Czechoslovak communists Václav Kopeckýý or infamous prosecutor Josef Urválek. Today's foreign minister responded by saying that he saw Cardinal Duka getting involved on the side of Petr Nečas and his right-wing government, with Dominik Duka no longer seeing how it makes life harder for poor people to take his steps. Lubomír Zaorálek was even under the impression that the church had received money, had promised assets, paid off political debt, and was engaged on the right hand side of the government. Yes, church prelates once again showed that faith and church are very different things, and as is widely known, from the time of Jan Hus and Petr Chelčický. And I consider it fair to mention the primacy of the Czech and Archbishop of the Prague Cardinal František Tomášek, who considered the relations of the Catholic Church with the state in his life to be closed in property matters. I consider the appointment of the Czech Party to socially democratic alleged totalitarian structures as a classic means of the political right. When many religious leaders set out on this journey, it does not only result in the popularization of faith, but also in the activation of people who share the civic concept of our society and do not want greater church penetration into its course. And such people, as you know very well, are the vast majority in the Czech Republic. Yes, after Bohuslav Sobotka became Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, his campaign against so-called church restitution sounds lost. Many citizens even feel that to some extent his government prefers a clientelistic environment inherited from a right-wing government coalition. The People's Party and the Church are now saying that there is peace, because the Czech Social Democratic Party has understood that this is a futile struggle. Who knows whether the current lack of trust in the Czech Social Democratic Party has nothing to do with the fact that, in opposition, it has aroused high expectations about the principled approach to the law on so-called religious restitution, which, however, has far from fulfilled after joining the government. Yes, I've heard many times lately that so-called church restitution is a closed matter. After the Church's leaders have severely refused to discount their property claims, regardless of the difficult situation of the Republic and socially weak citizens, and after the Czech Social Democratic Party has retreated from the public promise given to the citizens to hold a referendum to change the so-called restitution law, social democracy leaders have not negotiated and have not yet imposed any, not even a slight relief for citizens of such an unfair law. In the case of Prime Minister Sobotka, it would therefore be appropriate for him to present a decent and acceptable solution for the Czech state. Yes, I have heard many times recently that so-called church restitution is a closed matter. It's for whom. Clearly, those who do not think so include the European Member for the Czech Social Democratic Party, Jan Keller. In fact, he addressed the European Commission by letter asking to examine whether the property settlement with the churches in the Czech Republic was justified and in line with the competition and market of the European Union. It is particularly concerned with the provisions on rules on free competition and rules on permissible State aid. There are those who call Professor Keller's actions pathetic anticlericalism. Others see this as a signal from the Czech Social Democratic Party that it is still dealing with the topic, and also as a certain pressure on church and religious societies to compromise on the state, for example in the area of social support funds, and to be more tolerant, more sensible to the state, even in the issue of education, which I said just now, is very topical. Personally, I do not think that Professor Keller, unlike some of the prominent Czech Social Democratic Party, tends to have a certain theatricality. They are serious about their actions, and it is certainly not pleasant for the church that this topic is passed on to European level, it is a medialized and credible presentation of churches and church societies like those who primarily seek property and material background and not so much about social and spiritual matters. [[10.30 hours]] The restriction of church restitution was a pre-election topic not only of the party I represent here but also of the Czech Social Democratic Party. But now it seems that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has put this subject on ice after unsuccessful attempts to negotiate with churches and religious societies. As a result, it has a continuation at European level, where recently the euro Commissioner for Competition's pen on illegal support for the state to churches has been said: churches can be viewed as undertakings if they are engaged in economic activity. In such a case, at least according to the said Commissioner, they will be subject to the rules on the admissibility of State aid to firms. Ladies and gentlemen, according to some Members, the Roman Catholic Church has behaved extremely generously when, in exchange for supporting its property claims, it has offered to smaller churches 20% of the payments to be paid by the State in cash as part of the property restitutions. Of course, many evangelical believers find it more like a bribe than generosity. They claim the inheritance of Jan Hus and Petr Chelčický, who sharply criticized the secular wealth of the church and considered modesty as a Christian attitude. In August 2012, for example, Evangelical vicar Miloš Rejchrt declared that I do not want money that can be labeled dirty. The most problematic are, according to him, the provisions relating to the so-called Church replacements. Because of that, said the priest, it is worth turning on all the brakes and the thing to stop. The law talks about financial compensation for seventeen churches. I quote his words. And it says exactly how much it gets. It's not clear what the replacements are for, how they happened. But Metropolitan Graubner was told that it was a generous gesture from the Catholic Church to churches that would claim only two percent. So the Catholic Church is so generous that it gives them 20 percent of its own. But I read in the law, the vicar Rejchrt responded that compensation will be issued by the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the state, not the Catholic Church. That's what bothers me. The archbishop Jan Graubner, mentioned earlier, stated that this might make up for the harm that Catholics could have done to other believers in history. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know about you, but I see one of the darkest places in this law. And I do not blame those who do not understand why, for example, the Apostolic Church should receive more than a billion crowns from the state when it was registered in 1989. In the light of these facts, I am now asking the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic for an opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u35	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka, who will respond, applied for the floor. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u36	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the problem of church restitution cannot be separated from the complexity of our history, from the complexity of the time that our countries have undergone during the 20th century. And I could certainly also say that if it weren't for February 25th, 1948, we might not even have to have the topic of church restitution here. Just the history of the 20th century brought great social twists, brought great property twists in our country, and in 1989 we were faced with a situation that we can afford to fix and what can be actually righted from it. How can we fix what has happened in the past 40 years? I do not want to say that it should outweigh the opinion expressed by a well-known Czech author who has lived in France for many years, who said in his novel "Prank" that nothing will be undone, everything will be forgotten. I hope everything isn't forgotten. However, the whole discussion about the religious restitutions was related and related to it, and it was also linked to it, and there are reservations about social democracy in the approved form of church restitutions, whether the people who live today who bear no hereditary sin for the deeds of their ancestors, whether they should bear the burden, the economic burden of repairing the damage and mistakes that occurred before 1989 or which occurred after 1948. I don't know if there's anyone else here today who would argue that church property was confiscated in 1948, that monasteries may have been abolished, and so on, if that's the position currently held by a political party. But it happened, it was part of our history, and after 1989, there was a long debate about what to do with church property. The attitude of social democracy was clear. We believe that it is not possible to impose an economic burden on the current citizens of the Czech Republic to remedy everything that happened before 1989, that compensation, correction of injustice should be done in an appropriate manner and should be done in a fair way as far as possible. The individual steps after 1989 were taken very often by promoting certain interests from time to time, certain interests were taken into account, restitutions were realized. Restitution has been realized against a large proportion of natural persons. Church restitution or restitution of property against a large part of legal entities have not been realized, or some inequality has already been established there from the point of view of our legal order. And then for 25 years, we had a discussion about what a final step should look like or a final solution to the question of the former church property that the churches owned on February 25, 1948. As Social Democrats, we did not support the proposal to settle with the churches prepared by the coalition government at the time. The proposal was prepared by the ODS coalition, TOP 09 and Public Affairs, and this government coalition pushed the proposal against the will of the opposition here in the Chamber of Deputies, pushing it against the Senate's will, because the Senate, where social democracy was decisive at the time, rejected the proposal by church restitutions. This Senate veto, here in the Chamber of Deputies, has been overruled by only one voice from the then ODS and TOP 09 government coalition. If the law on church restitution were a simple law, it probably wouldn't be something that wouldn't be subject to discussion after the election whether such a simple law could be changed. But the solution, which was then chosen by the ODS government and TOP 09, does not only include legislative regulation, but also includes a very quickly signed treaty between the Czech Republic and individual churches. The contract was signed at a later date and it began to be realized. So from a legal point of view, we do not only have to deal with the amendment of the law here, but we also have to deal with the fact that there is a treaty between the state and the churches that was signed by legitimate representatives of the Czech Republic at the time. I do not want to evaluate the individual steps and procedures, but I want to make it clear that social democracy with the solution, as prepared by the Nečasův government, was not satisfied, disagreed, and no social democrat in the Church restitution or in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate supported. The main arguments and reservations that we had against the proposal, which dealt with the settlement with the churches, were linked, firstly, to the fact that equal approaches in our country in the area of restitution have not been applied, for example, to the restitution of legal persons - and I can talk here about associations, I can talk about cooperatives, there no restitutions were implemented or were implemented very limited. [[10.40 hours]] This is actually an example of a rather generous restitution to legal persons. We did not agree with the financial compensation provided for in respect of the assets not issued. In our view, these financial compensations should not have been fixed so generously and, in our view, they significantly burden public budgets. So it was our next reservation that we had. And then, of course, there is the question of reservations about the system, as it was set in terms of the equal position of individual churches. Since social democracy disagreed with the form of church restitution, after the law was passed, we took advantage of the last option, initiated a complaint to the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. A total of three constitutional complaints were filed in relation to church restitutions at that time. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court rejected our reservations about church restitution. The Constitutional Court also rejected the other proposals put forward. This means this law on religious restitution, although it has been enforced by a very narrow majority, against the will of the opposition, although it is content-disputed, has passed the constitutional test. The Constitutional Court has not abolished the law on religious restitution. Before the previous elections, there was logical discussion of how the parties would proceed if they gained influence after the elections if they received support from citizens. And I want to remind you of a position that was clearly declared by social democracy at the time, which is completely verifiable and very easy to trace. Social democracy did not propose a referendum on religious restitution. That was the KSČM proposal. The KSČM before the elections came up with a proposal that a referendum on religious restitution should be made. We have clearly said that we consider it very controversial from a legal point of view whether an ex-post referendum can be made on a proposal that has already been adopted in the Chamber of Deputies and which has been passed by the Constitutional Court's decision. That means, before the election, before the people went to the elections, there was a clear position of social democracy. We have been saying from the beginning that we are skeptical about holding a referendum on church restitution here, and we believe that this would be a legally risky step, a legally controversial step, and probably would not stand before the Constitutional Court's decision. What social democracy has said is that we are prepared after the elections, if we succeed, to negotiate with church representatives to reduce the impact of church restitution on public budgets, especially to reduce the financial compensation that is part of church restitutions. So after the election, we started negotiations with the churches. At the same time, we opened this issue within the forthcoming government coalition and discussed with coalition partners on possible reduction of church restitution. Again, if, for example, by simply amending the law, we adjusted the amount of the financial compensation granted to the churches for unissued property, it would be a solution that would probably not stand up to, with high probability, it would not stand up to the Constitutional Court. These are the conclusions of the expertise that social democracy has at its disposal. So the way that is real is to negotiate with the churches whether the churches agree to limit the financial compensation provided under these restitutions. Repeated negotiations in this matter have not led to success. I have repeatedly turned mainly to representatives of the Catholic Church, but also some of the Evangelical churches. The reaction was rejection. Neither of those churches that were part of the treaty that was concluded between the state and the churches under Nečasův' government agreed to agree to reduce the amount of financial compensation granted to church restitution. That was the Church's position. At the same time, social democracy also acted within the government coalition, and both the coalition was formed and one of the three coalition parties, namely KDU-ČSL, refused to take steps to reduce and change church restitutions as part of the coalition treaty without the churches agreeing to such actions as such. So when we negotiated a government coalition, we agreed that this issue would not be part of the coalition treaty, and we would return to this subject within the coalition if we could reach an agreement with the churches on the reduction of church restitution. Although I have heard a number of criticisms about the post-election procedure, none of the critics of the post-election social democracy procedure proposed or submitted any other alternative. We are at this moment almost a year after the elections here in the Chamber of Deputies, and, as far as I know, no other political party has submitted a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to address the question of church restitution in another way. This means, I do not understand why the process of social democracy is criticised without proposing any other constitutionally comfortable alternative that would allow church restitution to change. In my opinion, in addition to the negotiations with the churches and in addition to the agreement between the government and the churches, there is no other alternative at the moment, unless the alternative aside, which would, with a high degree of probability, be abolished by a decision of the Constitutional Court. I believe that churches should look for a way to mitigate the effects of church restitution, they should look for a way for the wider public to understand church restitution and to accept church restitution. In my opinion, there are two variants of the procedure by the churches. The first option is an agreement to reduce the financial impact of church restitution on the state budget. This path is open here and, in my opinion, the government is prepared to negotiate such an option. At this point, however, there is no willingness on the part of the Church. The second option, which, in my view, is also possible, is a publicly declared commitment by the churches that the funds and assets they have acquired are largely used to enable churches to perform social purposes, educational purposes, to help in the field of culture or in the field of health, because I think it is in the interest of society, if this unfortunate way has already been approved by church restitution and these funds have been earmarked to serve good things, to serve the whole of society within these activities, which the churches very often organise and which could support from these resources. In my opinion, this is the second path that should be explored, which should be discussed - that is, a commitment by the churches to use the vast majority of their funds in this way. What I also consider to be very important - and it is incomprehensible to me so far that the churches have not gone this way - is transparency. Transparency of how the churches will deal with the property they acquire in settlement with the churches and transparency of how the churches will deal with the money they have earned in settlement. What we are proposing as Social Democrats is that every year, by the churches involved in settlement, complete information is provided on the way in which this money and property are handled, so that citizens know what is going on with the money. I think that this is something that would undoubtedly be very useful and important. Unfortunately, Nečasův' government did not think about it, which means that property and money were provided to the churches and there is no obligation in the law or in contracts in terms of transparent treatment of these large and significant financial and property resources. I do not know why churches should resist this, why the public should not be informed about what is happening to these funds. Here I think it's hard to find an argument on the Church side. So I see some room for action. I think we should continue with it. Social democracy is undoubtedly ready for it. But I would ask that we actually save ourselves a demagogy, so that we don't push each other's positions that weren't real. Everyone can read the social democracy electoral programme, and everyone can read what has been said in this electoral programme. There was a clear commitment by the Social Democrats that if we obtained the support of citizens, we would start negotiations with the churches on the reduction and change of church restitution. This is the commitment that social democracy carries, we will carry it with us in the years to come, and we will proceed in a clear way to meet our commitments to the voters. As far as all possible other procedures are concerned, I really refer to the debate that has been conducted around church restitutions. I refer to the Constitutional Court's decision, I refer to the rule of law, which, in my view, excludes certain solutions which do not allow certain solutions. And I would like to ask all the criticisms of the Government's progress to present, in addition to this criticism, their own real alternatives to the procedure that should be chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. Given the number of applications, it is obvious that we cannot complete the response to this interpelation within 11 hours because I have at least four registered in this matter. But before I give the floor to the first party with priority rights, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek, I will make an apology from today's meeting. From 12 to 13 o'clock, Mr Skalický apologizes from this meeting. And then I have an organizational matter that's needed to draw oral interviews. An interpelation is made to Minister Jiří Dienstbier, oral interpelation, on discrimination against Romani footballers, but the signature does not show who is interpelling because the signature is unreadable. I therefore ask the Interpelling Member to publish his name for our colleagues who will draw lots at 11.30. So that's my information. The words will now be taken with priority right by the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Vice-President Gazdík will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me two comments on the speech of both my previous speakers, Mr Grebeníček, Prime Minister Sobotka. First, MEP Grebeníček called the passage one of the darkest aspects of this law, where not only the Catholic Church, but also the other churches receive minor financial compensation, even though they were established only after the Communists took all their property from the churches in this country. I would like to point out that the restitution itself, the return of material property, is not the only content and the only accent of this law. He is also not called the law on religious restitution, it is not called the law on the settlement of some injustices, because it is really just a compensation of some injustices, all injustices cannot be corrected, but it is a law on the settlement between the state and the churches. And it is far from merely the time back when part of the stolen property is returned, far from all, but it is also the time for the future when a significant separation of the church from the state occurs. Of course, in that time, the map of the religious Czech Republic has changed, say, and every believer has the right to confess faith in the church that suits him, and it would be pointless for some churches to be independent of the state, managing their property and their financial resources, and some churches to continue to depend, because they simply create that independence. So that's the reason, and it's very, I guess, enlightened. Of course, the Catholic Church was the one who had to retreat the most because it had the most property. But it was because all churches wanted independence from the state that logically such an agreement had to take place. And I would like to point out that there was not just an historic agreement - unfortunately, we were the last Soviet satellite to take such a step, all the other countries had dealt with it much earlier. But there was not only a historical agreement between the state and the churches, but there was also an extremely historical agreement where 17 Christian churches and the Jewish religious community were able to agree on a common position and a common practice, which I think was an unprecedented success from a social point of view, and since the Thirty Years' War nothing like this has ever succeeded. Seventeen churches and a Jewish religious community agreed on a common position. So many notes first. And I will, because I'm saying again, this is mostly about independence from the state, and here I'm going to say that this is the stumbling block. The Prime Minister spoke of disproportionate financial compensation, disproportionate financial burdens. I'm begging you, I'm not yelling, please, I'm not screaming, please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u39	Yes. I'll ask the House for peace. My colleague Kalousek wouldn't have to raise his voice. It would be good if we created an environment here where we listen to each other. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u40	Thank you. This has to do with the thesis on disproportionate financial demands. Colleagues, until now the churches were dependent on the state, the communist state well knew why he did it. Because property means independence. This is what the Communists were perfectly capable of. The farmer was free on his own land, the businessman was free in his shop, he needed to be taken away. And who was left with a piece of freedom and independence because of his savings, the communist took those savings from him in 1953. Since then, all persons in Czechoslovakia have been dependent on the state, which was exactly what the Communists were after. Even the churches, of course, because the clergy were paid out of the state budget, all the operation of the churches subsidized from the state budget, and logically the churches were not and could not be completely free, because they were entirely dependent on the state. If you look at the financial compensation, then after the payment of the spiritual money starts to fall and the operation of the churches that the state has paid up until now, and the churches will start to fund it themselves from the returned property, then within 30 years the funds paid will be equalized. Yeah, there's some pre-financing going on right now. Now a few years will be two to three billion a year more cargo so that in the future, after 30 years, there will be no more. And if you do the math in this 30-year horizon, it's going to be a fucking zero. And I dare say you don't care about the two to three billion a year at the current time. These are the means that correspond roughly to, for example, green diesel, which you have completely recklessly approved, and it seems good to you, while payouts by church restitutions seem wrong to you. You're really upset about the independence. It bothers you terribly that a significant part of civil society, from its ideal basis always anti-communist and always free-loving, will be independent of the state. And that logically irritates and annoys all communists in all political parties in this House!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u41	Thank you, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Gazdík - but he is overtaken by two factual points, Mr Kováčik's remark and Mr Kudela. And I suppose you can't even exhaust those two minutes, Mr President, because at 11 o'clock, we need to start another program. I'm the one who noted it in the protocol. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u42	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice day. My colleague Kalousek spoke wisely. Tell him, Mr President. There was just one little thing that didn't add up. At the time he spoke of, the communists did not rule, even if they were majority, alone, but ruled through the National Front. And there wasn't just the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. And it was also a rare kind of unification of more political entities, as it was then a rare unification of 17 churches and religious societies under one interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u43	Thank you to President Kováčik. Good morning. With another factual remark, Mr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said once before, the law on partial settlement of injustices is about partial settlement, and many of us have different views on it. Some see partial alignment as low, some too high. The constant return to this law, which was adopted, according to which a contract was concluded, according to which further progress was made, the constant return to this law merely eats up disputes and pains in society, and this morninging will bring no good. As President Kalousek said, under this law and under the treaty that has been concluded, the separation of the church from the state and the state will not have to subsidize the Church as we keep hearing, and the churches and religious societies will be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-001-177.u45	I thank Mr Kudel for his point of view. As the 11th hour has passed, I'm shutting down the Prime Minister's interview and continuing the next program. We'll continue with the fixed points. The first fixed point is point number
