ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-011-107.u1	107. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Arms Trade Treaty signed in New York on 3 June 2013 /German press 200/ - second reading I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor, and I will ask the honourable House to calm down so we can hear you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-011-107.u2	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. I am not the Minister of Industry, but I am a co-manager of this treaty, so I also present it together with Minister Mládek. I'll try to be brief. First of all, I thank the House for allowing this treaty to be negotiated, because on Monday, the UN General Assembly begins and that the treaty will be approved by then is very good for us. And I'm just gonna say this briefly, I'm gonna try to reduce it somehow. In my opinion, this arms trade agreement is even advantageous for the Czech Republic, because if it comes to the fact that 154 states of the world apply here, it is actually quite a groundbreaking thing, because today the Czech Republic has been among countries that have developed a certain method of assessing the sale of weapons, so that they do not get into the hands of terrorists, organised crime, because we are members of the European Union and we have certain rules for this. However, there are a number of countries that do not have these rules, so they are not subject to the restrictions imposed by similar contracts. This creates such unfair competition for the Czech Republic, because these countries are not bound by similar rules. This treaty approval follows up on what took place in New York in March 2013, where this treaty was approved in the form of a resolution, and I repeat, 154 states supported it, against North Korea, Syria and Iran. Some states have been delayed. However, for the first time in history, it is a number of countries that are pronounced to have certain rules of arms control. It concerns about eight categories of conventional weapons, also light, medium-sized types of weapons, it is simply a way to face weapons spread uncontrolledly to such places as today, for example. Islamic State. That's a good example today. I believe, since this agreement has already fallen, that it should not be a problem, it is primarily because I think that the Czech Republic is interested in making as many countries as possible that recognise the same rules as we have in place. I remind you that what is in this treaty goes beyond the limits of the Czech rule of law. We actually follow all these rules, i.e. that it will not even mean that we in the Czech Republic should regulate the legal order in some way further. That is why I think that there is a really good reason for us to accept this treaty, to sign up to it, and so we have greatly expanded the number of those who accept the restrictions that we have voluntarily taken upon ourselves in the past. I'm not gonna stretch it out, I think this is the core of the thing, and I'm gonna be happy to vote it out this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-011-107.u3	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and please just let you know that the resolution of the Foreign Committee and the Defence Committee has been delivered as House prints 200/1 and 200/2. I ask that the foreign committee rapporteur, Mr Karel Rais, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-011-107.u4	I wish you all a good day. I will limit myself to the resolution, because there has been enough said here. We discussed very closely on the Foreign Committee on 25 June this year. Resolution on the Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Arms Trade Treaty signed in New York on 3 June 2013 is a House press 200. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade . Jiří Havlíček, MBA, Karel Rais's report and the Foreign Committee's debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty, signed in New York on 3 June 2013, II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-011-107.u5	I thank the rapporteur and I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Defence, Mr Jiří Skalický, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-011-107.u6	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has explicitly said the main principles of the treaty in question. I would mention only one small thing here, namely that a significant change in this contract compared to the current situation is a set of obligations relating to keeping a record of permits and transactions granted, as well as the obligation of individual states to share defined information, which is a fundamental change compared to what is currently as practice. Otherwise, the Defence Committee discussed the relevant government amendment at its 11th meeting on 3 September 2014. The resolution was adopted as a press that you have in your materials under number 200/2. The resolution on the Government proposal submitted to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the ratification of the Arms Trade Treaty signed in New York on 3 June 2013 is a House press 200/2. Following the reasoning put forward by Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade . Vladimír Bärtl, report by Mr Pharmdr Jiří Skalickýý and after a general and detailed debate by the Defence Committee I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty, signed in New York on 3 June 2013, II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, III. asks the chairman of the committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-011-107.u7	I thank the rapporteur, and I am now opening up a debate in which I do not register any application, so I am ending the debate and asking the rapporteur and the rapporteurs whether they are interested in the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. If there are no objections, given that both resolutions are identical, I would put the two resolutions to a vote at once. I don't see any objection. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. You've already started without me. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 70, to which 122 Members have been enrolled, for 95, against none. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted and the treaty will be ratified. So, according to the approved proposal, we are now returning to item 57 under discussion and continuing the general debate on the school law.
