ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u1	135. Oral inhalation We will proceed to paragraph 135, which is the oral questioning of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. First of all, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will interpel the Prime Minister on the state of preparation of the European Union's operational programmes and financial periods. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the Government of the Czech Republic has declared drawing on the Structural Funds as one of its main priorities and there is no reason for the opposition to oppose it in this case. Yes, we believe the same thing. However, the year of the first planning period 2007 to 2020 has passed and the first year of your government has passed and is not yet closed in a discussion with the European Commission on a single operational programme. [[14.30 hours]] If my information is correct, only two have so far been sent to comment and the rest are still staggering among the internal comments of the ministries of the Czech Republic. I'm stressing that I don't have to have the right information. The fact remains that at the end of the first year of the financial period, one single programme is not agreed with the European Commission, which contrasts sharply with the situation in 2007, when for the previous period from 2007 to 2013 at the end of 2007 all programmes were agreed and prepared for drawing except for one single programme manager, which was then Minister Kuchtová - one programme for the first year was unable to complete. She was called away by the Prime Minister for that. Please, Prime Minister, tell the state and situation of the negation of operational programmes between us and the European Commission, and in particular the deadline for all programmes to be agreed and ready for drawdown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u3	I thank Mr Kalousek and now I ask the Prime Minister for his reply. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u4	Thank you. Hello, honourable Members. Let me respond to this interpellation, which concerns a really serious subject. I agree that this is an indisputable priority from the perspective of government negotiations, and it is also an important priority in terms of economic growth and jobs. It is hard to imagine that we will be able to implement an economic policy to promote growth if it does not involve a rapid and effective drawing of funds from the European Union. I would like to recall a few facts and answer the question asked by Mr Kalousek. First of all, I want to say that the basic legislation for the new programming period was issued by the European Commission in December 2013. December 2013. The final preparation of the Partnership Agreement could have developed from this. I want to remind you that the new government started at the very end of January 2014, i.e. We had to work with the documents we had at our disposal. My aim was to quickly end negotiations with the European Commission in the first phase on the conclusion of the Partnership Agreement. This was done in the first half of this year. Then in the middle of this year, i.e. in July, we sent all operational programmes to the European Commission gradually, i.e. Before the holidays, all operational programmes were gradually sent, and we were waiting for the European Commission to comment on these operational programmes. In October - Unfortunately, the European Commission has used all the time it has formally to send comments, i.e. She didn't make it easy on us. In October, we received comments from the European Commission on individual operational programmes, and what is happening now is the very last, final phase of the approval of operational programmes. We need formal agreement from the European Commission with all operational programmes. That is why the administrators of the operational programmes have now responded to the European Commission's comments, the European Commission's comments and the two operational programmes mentioned by Mr Kalousek are no longer sent to the European Commission for comments, but have been sent to the European Commission for approval after the settlement of the comments. The remaining operational programmes after the settlement of comments will be sent for approval to the European Commission by the end of January 2015. The deadline for operational programmes for sending, not for comments from the European Commission, but for the approval of the European Commission following their comments and after the formal dialogue on comments is January 2015. At the same time, I consider it important to mention that there is one more serious problem that concerns the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. As I have been informed by the Ministry of Regional Development, there is still one problem that needs to be resolved - or one issue that the European Commission has opened in its IROP statement, and that is the question of implementation through regional councils, i.e. structures that have worked here to draw funds under regional operational programmes. Here, the European Commission calls for the integration of regional councils into the overall structure of the Ministry of Regional Development, and it needs a rapid agreement with the regions, and this operation has been implemented. This is therefore a situation with regard to the approval of operational programmes, so we assume that the remaining operational programmes will be sent to the European Commission during the month of January. The last point I would like to make in my response to the interpelation is that we have the general conditions under which the European Commission has made the approval of any of our operational programmes subject to the approval of the Partnership Agreement. I want to mention the adoption of the Civil Service Act. I am glad that, even after the agreement here in Parliament, the government managed to pass the law. I want to mention the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Here it is very important that the approval process be completed at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and also here the Czech Republic has fulfilled the precondition for obtaining the approval of all our operational programmes. The government's aim is, therefore, to approve programmes in time, and the government's aim is to prepare ourselves for drawing up, including the preparation of a uniform methodological environment, including the coordination of the preparation of challenges, i.e. already now that individual managing bodies work on the form and structure of the challenges so that we do not waste time afterwards. Once the operational programmes are formally approved by the Commission, so that we can start publishing individual calls. But it is very important that we also meet the general conditions. I just want to remind you that the government was not even satisfied with any of these general conditions at the time it joined, and we had to push through the relevant bills first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Kalousek has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u6	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. As a partial argument, you stated that the government did not take up its mandate until January this year. To compare, the Government of Topolánkův did not take up its government until January, namely on 9 January, but managed to have operational programmes mutually approved by 2007. I therefore ask for an additional answer to two simple questions: why is your government obviously less competent and less rapid than the Government of Topolánkův and, secondly, the deadline, Prime Minister. I don't care so much when you send it to the European Commission in some condition, but when you're gonna get shot. This means that I would like a clear answer from the Prime Minister, when the Czech Republic will have all operational programmes agreed with the European Commission by what date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u7	I thank Mr Kalousek and ask the Prime Minister for an additional reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u8	You know, the Czech Republic has already promised in the past. Topolánkův's government promised it too, but unfortunately none of it was fulfilled. I want to remind you that the Civil Service Act had to be enforced by our government. I would like to remind you that we have only now had to prepare the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act in dialogue with the European Commission, and we are trying to enforce it. There are a number of conditions that must first be fulfilled in order to achieve the approval of operational programmes. But unfortunately, it's not the only thing. There are a number of strategic documents missing, which are absolutely necessary for us to draw European money in this new structure. I want to remind you, for example. a waste management plan that was not. I want to recall the strategy for the education of Romani children, which was now approved by the government at the meeting. Just a number of strategic documents had to be processed over the last ten months simply because we did not find strategic documents in ministries. These things have not been worked out, these activities have not been completed, and at this time the Czech Government is proceeding to rule out any delays that would be caused by us to prepare in time for drawing funds from the European Union to inform potential applicants about subsidies, for example. on the structure in which the calls for individual operational programmes will be published. At this point, by the end of January, we want to send the last operational programmes to the European Commission for formal approval, so that the European Commission can approve them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u9	I ask the Members not to shout at each other. Mr Martin Novotný, who will interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, is prepared with another interview on the evaluation of the functioning of the Czech Railways. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u10	Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the last hours of the iceberg, frost in the Czech Republic, and the consequences that this situation has had in particular in the field of mass transport have raised a number of questions in us. They reminded us once again how fragile our society is in terms of the effects of the weather impact on the technological civilization shell. In the past, these problems have often been investigated by floods, and in this context it can be said that e.g. our integrated rescue system, even after the checks it's passed, is well prepared to deal with these crisis situations. The latest events in this regard have also checked the readiness and ability of 100% owned public limited liability companies, including České dráhy. In my question, I would distinguish between the plane of technical-logistic readiness, the ability to technologically address the situation, from the plane of human, communication, when we have recently witnessed, and both through the media we have received information, as well as various e-mails from citizens about the fact that it is these large colossals, organizations of this type that cannot handle these situations from the point of view of information, the use of modern technologies to inform the customer, and in such a general human plane the care of a person who finds himself in a crisis situation, perhaps somewhere in the middle of the night, in the middle of the landscape of the train. There are many cases, and I would like to ask with knowledge, which is why I am asking the Prime Minister at the moment that today the new Minister of Transport is in office, whether and how the government has dealt with these experiences so far, or whether and how the Prime Minister is planning to give this state society feedback. Modern companies of this type have precise methodological procedures for how to proceed in such situations, developed various information systems. The Czech Railways obviously didn't quite work in this. I would therefore like to ask how the Prime Minister is assessing the situation, or how the government wants to proceed in its relations with this state-owned company in the coming days, in relation to state representatives in statutory bodies in terms of assessing their activities and possible future management of these companies, so that these problems do not recur, so that this company will be better off in the next test of this type. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u11	I thank Mr Novotný. The Prime Minister has the floor now. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u12	Thank you. Madam Members, I agree that any crisis or crisis situation should be used to learn from it. I also agree that our integrated rescue system is indeed at European level, and I think that from this point of view we belong to the model states of the European Union in terms of how these systems are set up. However, even the integrated rescue system must have enough input data to prepare for future risks, and unfortunately I have to remember Vrbětice, Vlachovice, which basically does not exist in terms of crisis planning, as it has worked in the Czech Republic in the past years, and now unfortunately we are paying for it to a large extent. But to the situation on the Czech Railways. I naturally asked the leadership of the Czech Railways to prepare a written basis for replying to the Member's interpellation. I have information here, some I might be able to say, others I would probably pass on to him in writing, but I would like to inform you that I have agreed today with the new Minister of Transport that we will meet with the management of the Czech Railways tomorrow afternoon, we will meet with the management of the railway unions and one of the important topics we want to discuss is the reflection of calamity in relation to the management systems of the Czech Railways and their crisis planning for the future. I believe, and I also had a number of signals from the citizens that everything was not okay. But there's one thing I'd like to mention that I don't forget about her. I would like to thank the employees of the Czech Railways, those of all the ČD staff who were faced with this catastrophic situation and had to deal with it and tried to help as much as possible. They tried to help most from the point of view of the operation of České dráhy, tried to help passengers to get home, and when they couldn't, they tried to help them as much as possible in terms of improving their conditions. Unfortunately, not everywhere has succeeded. With regard to the catastrophic situation, the calamity arose due to extremely adverse climatic conditions, a very strong icing was created within tens of minutes and in an extremely large area. České dráhy used trains as carriers until the infrastructure manager, i.e. SŽDC, declared the lines to be non-electric trains. By the time it happened, about 120 trains of České dráhy were stuck on the track, separated differently by routes, somewhere even on the wrong signal of mobile operators. The situation affected about 100,000 passengers on the Czech Railways. From the point of view of their strategy, the Czech Railways primarily tried to focus on the evacuation of passengers from trains, or at least trains to open stations on lines, knowing that the first ones to be rescued must be people on trains that are not heated, in kits stuck in weak-signal areas and also in those trains where the possibility of water supply or refreshment was impaired due to their unsetting. As I was informed from the side of České dráhy, trains with a functional dining car and heating were designed in the last row from this point of view. As I was also informed, ČD employees tried to hand out hot drinks in stations, trains, and at least some refreshments for passengers in cooperation with the paramedics. Part of the replacement operation was secured by diesel locomotives, as the Czech Railways state and claim at the moment, most of them, I emphasize most, not all, most of the passengers were taken care of on average within three hours from the moment the trains got stuck. Unfortunately, there were also situations where passengers remained on the stranded train for a significantly longer time. Following this situation, which took place on 1 December, at least a limited operation of trains, which had been towed, as I mentioned, by a diesel locomotive, was ensured on the main corridor lines. České dráhy has contracted bus carriers, who help in case of emergency situations according to their current possibilities. The Czech Railways here point out that there were factors here concerning glaciers on the roads, and urban transport companies replaced the outage with trams in cities, which means these buses were also used in other capacities. I do not want to continue with the list of measures that the Czech Railways provide in the basis for responding to your interpelation. However, I would like to say that just the fact that these things have been handled, the fact that we really want to deal with this with the Minister of Transport, that we will be interested in the feedback of the Czech Railways' reflection and we will certainly be interested in whether the Czech Railways and in what quality the clear crisis timetables for similar situations are working out. If these documents are not prepared, we will insist that they be prepared and trained by the staff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. We will therefore proceed to the third interview where Mrs Radka Maxová will interpel the Prime Minister on the coordination of drug policy. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Prime Minister. The finding of the SAO under number 1225 proved or showed significant fragmentation and inefficiency of the distribution of these funds. In 2012, dedicated expenditure from the state administration and self-government budget for drug policy amounted to 587.3 million. The State's money for drug policy is allocated to more than one chapter of the state budget, in the indicator of the drug policy programme. In 2010/2011, chapters of the Office of the Government, the Ministry of Health, Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Justice and Defence participated in the financing of drug policy. According to the analysis carried out by the Board Secretariat, 35,7 projects were subsidised simultaneously in 2011 from more than one chapter of the State budget. This support system requires coordination of grant procedures, priorities, timetables, selection criteria, plans and performance of public controls of central government bodies, which should be provided by the Board. The Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education did not fulfil these obligations and the Board did not obtain documentation from other central authorities of the state administration. The new rules for spending State budget funds on drug policy approved by the Government's resolution of 18 April 2012 no longer impose obligations. So what's the result of the SAO's findings? Systemic deficiencies include, on the part of central government authorities, the minimum frequency of public controls for beneficiaries of the subsidy and the lack of respect for the rules adopted by the Czech Government to ensure coordination of this control activity. The audit was subject to a total of 49 projects, of which four projects were found to be in breach of the obligations laid down in the grant decision. The beneficiaries of the subsidy did not keep the accounts correctly, the subsidies granted, the subsidies were above the wage cost limit, they exceeded the percentage of state budget participation set out in the grant decision, and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports did not submit the supporting documents for the financial settlement of the grant at the specified time. The Government of the Czech Republic adopted a resolution on 21 August 2013 requiring the President of the Council of the Government for the Coordination of Drug Policy to propose measures to make the inter-ministerial coordination of grant procedures more effective and discuss them within the framework of the Council of the Government for the Coordination of Drug Policy. I therefore ask what are the measures taken to make the inter-ministerial coordination of drug policy grant management more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u15	I thank the Member and ask the Prime Minister for an answer. And before the Prime Minister comes, I have more apologies. Mr Koskuba apologizes today from 15.30 pm due to a doctor's visit, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa apologizes today from 15 to 18 pm due to a meeting in the electoral region and Minister Marian Jurečka apologises today from 15 pm due to a work meeting. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly agree with the honourable Member that the common risk denominator, which extends across all areas of drug policy, from the system of care to the system of coordination to funding, is fragmentation of drug policies. Non-systemic artificial division of addiction issues by type of substance used, in addition to the absence of effective policy against other addictive substances, other than illegal addictive substances, is inefficient at this time in practice and does not, in my opinion, reflect the real extent of the problem that actually exists here in society. I would like to make it clear what steps are being taken to improve coordination at present and which have been implemented at the level of government and government council. The government has approved the concept of an integrated drug policy. On 20 October this year, the government approved the extension of the mandate of the Government Council for the Coordination of Drug Policy also on gambling and alcohol issues. A new Statute for the Government Council has been approved. The aim is to create a strong coordination point for an integrated drug policy. It is also intended to strengthen the position and mandate of the Government advisory body by planning its anchoring in the Act on Protection against Damage caused by tobacco, alcohol and other addictive substances. The Ministry of Health is now preparing a new law to be replaced by the law 379/2005, which will also legally anchor the integrated drug policy and its coordination mechanisms. I therefore assume that this should provide a sufficient legal framework for us to coordinate these policies. A revision of the national drug policy strategy is being prepared. The strategy therefore includes the issue of alcohol and gambling in order to create a unified drug policy. I am counting on this strategy to be submitted for approval to the government literally in the next few days. So it is possible that the government should discuss this strategy by the end of this year. On the basis of the strategy, new action plans are being prepared for alcohol, which will be in the Gesture of the Ministry of Health, and for gambling, which should be in the Gesture of the National Drug Coordinator. Both of these action plans have a deadline for submission to the Government for March 2015. The revision of the working advisory bodies of the Government Council on Drug Policy Coordination is also being prepared, which is needed in view of the new focus of the Board on integrated drug policy. The advisory bodies of the Council are an appropriate coordination tool to ensure cooperation and coordination between all drug policy actors at work level. It includes representatives of relevant ministries as well as self-government, as well as professional and scientific communities. The above steps should lead to the creation of new instruments, as well as the strengthening of current coordination instruments, and are aimed precisely at increasing the coordination of integrated drug policy across the state administration, self-government and the professional public. Of course, at the next stage, we also have a debate on ensuring sufficient funding for an integrated drug policy, whether it will be effective and effective, in order to overcome the fragmentation of the budgeting of these funds. I think that this is a topic of debate between the Council of the Government or on the basis of the Council of the Government between the various departments, that is, whether we will be able to reach a system in the future that we will be able to finance the implementation and support of the individual action plans in the framework of drug policy. But that's the phase that's ahead of us. We are now concentrating and concentrating in the first few months and will concentrate on creating legislative and organisational preconditions for the effective coordination of this policy on the basis of the current government council in the spring of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. I'd like to ask the lady a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u18	I would like to ask you an additional question. If the efficiency of the inter-ministerial is also involved in strengthening checks on the grant titles, because the conclusion of the SAO clearly shows that the control is not really strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u19	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u20	First of all, I want to inform the Office of the Government that the payment, administration, accounting for all these grant titles have been subject to the very standard procedures that exist within the functioning of the Chapter of the Office of the Government. So there are no special procedures, no special procedures. Everything will be properly charged and checked in the internal audit at the Office of the Government. I had the regulations checked, I had the conditions unified so that we would not really get into any doubt at the Office of the Government in the years to come, in view of the fact that all the funds paid from the state budget in this direction were not properly implemented. All we have to do is hope that other departments entrusted with these funds will do likewise, and I agree that it is extremely important for the credibility of any government drug policy to make sure that money goes where it is supposed to go. This means that they will not be used contrary to the purpose for which they have been allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u21	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. With the fourth interview, Mrs Marta Semelová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the Prague Circuit, is ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u22	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the long-term problem in Prague is the completion of an external road circuit to take transit car transport from internal Prague. It is mainly about its completion in the northern part, Ruzyně, Suchdol and Březineves, and the connection of the D8 motorway to D1, which also solves the unbearable situation in Spořilov. The problem has passed since 1999, when the circuit was approved in the zoning plan, but it is still not resolved because of judicial decisions and lack of funds. The districts in the northern part are opposed to the urban parts concerned and civil associations. Proposals for a variant solution around Prague, which should be cheaper and more environmentally friendly given urban areas. However, this decision is outside the competence of the council. It also goes through the Central Bohemia Region. And so far, unfortunately, it has not been decided or dealt with. In this situation, there is nothing left but to enforce the speedy completion of the circuit in the approved track. Unfortunately, the council cannot do this after the principles of territorial development were approved in September 2014, because it has to wait to see if the decision is again contested in the court and whether funds will be found in the state budget, including the negotiation of a subsidy by the European Parliament for the completion of the circle. You, Prime Minister, have visited the Spořilova area during the election campaign, and you have promised assistance in dealing with the situation in the debate with the citizens, as well as in the later press conference. I would therefore like to ask you what has already been done, what solution is being prepared, whether it is envisaged in financing transport buildings and the construction of the Prague road circuit, and how the preparation of the construction of the connection of the R7 road from Ruzyne to Chomutov with the D8 motorway, which was presented in September at the press conference of the Minister of Transport, could ensure the diversion of transit transport outside Prague, thereby making it easier for the northern road circuit to accept some of the comments of the mentioned urban parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u23	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the Prague Circuit. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the corridors which define the location of unfinished parts of the road circuit around Prague in the territory of the capital city of Prague have been abolished by the court's decision in the past, and this has therefore been abolished in the principles of the territorial development of the capital city of Prague. At present, an update number 1 of the principles of the territorial development of the capital city of Prague has been issued by the general measure number 43 of 2014, namely the resolution of the representative of the capital city of Prague of 11. 9. this year, when these parts of the road circuit around Prague are re-defined, inter alia, on the basis of the requirement of the Ministry of Transport as the body concerned in transport matters. Corridors defining the location of unfinished parts of the road circuit around Prague in the territory of the Central Bohemia Region were abolished by the court's decision in the past in the principles of the territorial development of the Central Bohemia Region, namely in sections 518, 519 Ruzyně-Suchdol-Březineves and 520 Březineves-Satalice. Section D1 Běchovice was not abolished in the principles of territorial development of the Central Bohemia Region. The action was rejected on this point. So this part of the construction of a large circuit has not been affected by this decision by the court. The route of the road circuit around Prague, which is promoted in the above-mentioned territorial plans, is the result of a long-term repeated process of searching and discussing a large number of variants. The location of the route must also correspond to the required transport function in the transport system of the Czech Republic. The primary objective of the construction of capacity communication is to ensure quality transport service in the area, which means for the territory of Prague. This route is the most advantageous from many aspects, as it connects individual road moves and distributes traffic loads across the territory of Prague and, in summary, reduces the transport load of the internal city communication network. I therefore have to say that, as Prime Minister, I support the completion of the Prague Circuit on this established route. In particular, if the Prague Council approved the addition of the principles of territorial development so that it confirmed this original route, especially with regard to the connection of D1 and Běchovice, here. I believe that this section, the construction and construction of which could reduce significantly the transport load of parts of Prague-Sporilov in particular, is in principle best prepared to be implemented in the coming years. I believe that the issue of the construction of the Prague Circuit is not at the moment a question of a lack of funds. The government, the state, the Department of Transport have a completely different problem in these years and that is a lack of prepared constructions. So it will now depend on whether or not to move forward from the point of view of preparation and those parts of the sections that were not affected by the decision of the court. I believe that, in particular, section D1 of Běchovice in this direction, as defined in the planning documentation of Prague or the Central Bohemia Region, is particularly suitable for this. As regards the section that I mentioned here, i.e. the section under number 511 D1 Běchovice, the whole section is currently defined in the planning documentation. The Road and Motorway Directorate is taking steps related to obtaining a territorial decision and, first, the possible start date for the construction of this section 511 is so far based on the information I received from the Ministry of Transport in 2019. So if we can proceed and continue to prepare this section, then the real year is 2019. As regards the sections of Ruzyně-Suchdol-Březineves, Březineves-Satalice, these are sections which are only defined in the planning documentation on the territory of the capital city of Prague, not in the existing principles of territorial development of the Central Bohemia Region. This means intensive project preparation can continue in this part of the large circuit after the territorial plan of the capital city of Prague is brought into line with the applicable principles of territorial development and a trace of buildings 518,519 will be introduced into the principles of the territorial development of the Central Bohemia Region. Until that happens, it will not be possible to move forward from the point of view of the preparation of this section. So it's our move at this point when it comes to this section, the Central Bohemia Region. As far as section D1 Běchovice is concerned, the Road and Motorway Directorate is on the move to prepare the relevant documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u25	I thank the Prime Minister for his clear answer. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u26	Yes, an almost clear answer, but I would still like to ask. I understand that for the section I was talking about in the northern part, that means Ruzyně-Suchdol-Březineves, the money will be, is it counted on them? That's one thing. And the other thing. You mentioned at the press conference that you are already preparing concrete steps. You promised to visit the citizens of Spořilov. And I would like to know exactly what has already been done or what is being prepared in this section.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u27	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u28	As I have already mentioned, the nearest possible term for that section, which is at this time least affected by problems and disputes, is the section D1 Běchovice. If this section is no longer at risk from the perspective of further preparation of the planning documentation, so far the first term mentioned by the Ministry of Transport for Finance is 2019. This year, we discussed with the government the Ministry of Transport's outlook to ensure the financing of sections that are in a phase of readiness so that they could be financed this year, next year and next year. This means, so far, the government has not discussed documentation to address funding for 2017, 2018, 2019, but I assume that next year we will also be dealing with 2017 and the next year funding should be addressed in 2018. So I cannot say here for 2019 what structure the funds will be available in. [[15.10 hours]] However, if the section D1 Běchovice is not affected by any other litigation, the preparation for a territorial decision will continue. If a territorial decision is obtained, the preparation for issuing a building permit will then take place. This is the situation in the part of the great Prague Circuit, where it is at this time, say, the most favourable situation for the continuation of its construction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Václav Klučka, who will interpel the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the issue of energy security of the Czech Republic in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, is prepared with the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, I am mostly known in the interpellations by acting primarily in the field of internal security. I will not now move from this issue, because energy security is not only one of Europe's key priorities, which, especially after the various current and past extremes that have become, for example, an accident in Fukushima, and the growing terrorist threats and increasing cyber threats become a very current European issue, and it is necessarily linked to the preservation and internal security of the state. According to the results of analyses carried out by the European Security Organisation and the European Forum for Security, Research and Innovation, the security of critical energy infrastructure is also relevant to the Czech Republic, inadequate and inconsistent. Different standards, methodologies, technologies and legislation within the European Union increase the risk of attack and possible crippling of infrastructure key to national operation and, in that case, the whole of the Union. The economic and social consequences of large-scale power grid outages can have very serious consequences, so the resilience of the pan-European energy system to crisis events becomes one of the main priorities for the development of all states. The implementation of the State's energy strategy and security of supply is not sufficient and sustainable without coordinated security of critical energy infrastructure. Prime Minister, what is the concept of this state's energy security in relation to the risks posed by the situation in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer in which the nation will surely calm down that it will not freeze in winter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u32	I hope not. But maybe I'd start with what Mr. Klučka started in his speech. It's not just about Ukraine. This is the overall energy security of the Czech Republic. Here I would like to say that it is necessary to assume that we are a country that has a pro-export-oriented economy, we have an energy-intensive industry, we are a country among European countries that has one of the highest industrial shares in gross domestic product production, and that will not change in future years in terms of industrial share. And we need to have enough electricity here, because the potential lack of electricity sources can mean uncertainty, which could also deter investors from not only coming to the Czech Republic, but it could also discourage them from investing in the modernization of industry in our country. So it's one of the big risks. And it is the government's responsibility in creating good conditions for prosperity and business in the Czech Republic to ensure sufficient, reliable supply of electricity and other energy resources in the Czech Republic. Here I must say that the government is shortly before it discusses the updated energy concept. This means that we want to approve the document so that we can apply to how energy will develop in our country until 2040. The updated state energy concept also includes certain corridors in which we should move in terms of the performance of individual sources of energy production in the Czech Republic. I would like to inform you that the government continues to expect that we should use nuclear energy. It is a source of electricity, which is little dependent on one single supplier of energy raw material. That means it provides us with relative energy independence and relative energy self-sufficiency. With regard to renewable resources, the Czech Republic is logically limited by its natural conditions for the further development of renewable resources and we are also limited by budgetary possibilities. So much so, very briefly, that ASEK, which means an updated state energy concept, takes as one of the important criteria precisely the fact that Czech energy will ensure the stable development of our economy in the future. As far as gas supplies are concerned, I think it is necessary to welcome the fact that there has been an agreement between the Ukrainian Government and the Russian Government with a strong mediation by the European Commission on the implementation of gas supplies to Ukraine until March. Here, I think that the European Union has played a very positive intermediate role, and it is certainly good news that if these supplies are actually implemented, this, on the one hand, will prevent the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, and, on the other hand, should not threaten the transit of Russian gas and Russian oil through Ukrainian territory. If transit is threatened in any way, then the Czech Republic also has diversified resources in terms of oil and gas supply in the past years due to the right strategic decisions, in such a way that the failure of the transit route through Ukraine does not cut us off from the resources that we really need in the Czech Republic. The government's trying to track the status of filling the bins. In underground storage tanks, the Czech Republic has gas supplies for about three months. If gas supplies to Europe were not completely stopped, the Russian side could secure supplies through the Nordstream pipeline. That means there are alternatives to the Ukrainian road. I believe there is no reason for there to be any concern or uncertainty about the risks in the coming months with regard to the Ukrainian crisis at the moment. We follow individual scenarios, prepare for individual scenarios, and this topic is also regularly addressed by the Government Security Council.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister. There's one more thing I'd like to ask. And it really is a request. Even in the ASEK and in the other things that are being done to secure the supply of gas, for example, let the government please pay attention to critical infrastructure objects. Nothing's gonna help us secure the vans, and then the assault happens in these objects. We have a crisis planning problem. Now we've seen it on other segments as it manifests itself. Please also pay attention to this aspect and try to improve the critical infrastructure even in ASEK a little bit. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u35	I thank Mr Klučka. The Prime Minister and his follow-up answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u36	Thank you. Unfortunately, it turns out that there are gaps in crisis planning. The situation that is now in Vlachovice-Vrbětice clearly illustrates this. Objectively even in a situation where an integrated rescue system has been operating here for many years, the Czech Republic has a problem in terms of crisis planning. Crisis plans appear not to take into account all the risks that can be objectively identified in the Czech Republic. Thank you for this subject. I think it is certainly a good incentive for the State Security Council to discuss these documents and the issue of critical infrastructure in terms of electricity distribution and other energy sources, and to take them into account in the crisis plans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are coming to the sixth question, when Mr Petr Fiala will interpel the Prime Minister on the issue of non-unified foreign policy. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Prime Minister, I would first like to remind you of your statement from the United States on 20 November this year, as quoted by Czech Television: First of all, Mr. Deputy Drulák, like other government employees, must respect government policy. - You responded to questions from the media that have noticed a significant ideological contradiction between your relationship with Václav Havel's legacy in foreign policy and the statements of the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. First, the question is whether it seems okay to remind you of your subordinates through the media from a foreign trip on a festive occasion. I can't imagine any other Prime Minister doing that. Why haven't you discussed the question before, because Petr Drulák's views are known for a long time? Secondly, and this is much more important, so what is the official foreign policy of this government? Is it the one that Mr. Deputy Drulák writes in the upcoming Concept of Czech Foreign Policy? I'm just here to remind you of some of the positions of Deputy Drulák, who has long held: Human rights, yes, but only postmodern ones. The West is wrong, the right has taken on the wrong interpretation of history. More than Reagan, Gorbačov is responsible for the fall of communism. It is necessary to change the clear orientation of the Czech Republic, to move south, east. Freedom is a relative term. And so on and so forth. Or is the line of our foreign policy the one that President Miloš Zeman presents on his foreign travels? To learn from China, do we bow to Russia and other similar things that the President presents to us in public and abroad? I ask you, Prime Minister, what will you do to ensure that our foreign policy is united?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u39	I thank Mr Fial for his question. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not want to argue and discuss who has a greater share at the end of the Cold War, whether it was Reagan or Gorbačov. Personally, I believe that they both have a share in the way the war ended. They both contributed to this, and they both contributed to it at a time that was not easy at all. But now I'm going back to foreign policy. I think it is clear that the Government, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is responsible for exercising foreign policy powers. The government defines the basic lines of foreign policy, in line with long-term conceptual materials such as: The concept of foreign policy, such as: Security strategy of the Czech Republic. According to our Constitution, the President of the Republic is to represent the state on the outside. So much for the description of the situation. As for these two basic conceptual documents, whether it is the Foreign Policy Concept, the Czech Security Strategy, they are approved by the government. They are therefore an expression of government policy. It is entirely legitimate for discussions to be held in their preparation. And it is also perfectly logical in a situation where there is a change in government and when the government of the parties, which have been oriented significantly right here, replaces a government that has a rather central-left character. This means that it is perfectly normal and common that such a discussion is being held in updating these strategic documents. However, I would like to mention the basic lines of our foreign policy. We're in Europe. We are members of the European Union. This gives us one important direction to take care of, how the Czech Republic acts in Europe, how it promotes its ideas about the future of the European Union. And I must say that I have not noticed any disputes between the position of the government, the State Department and the President of the Republic over the past ten months. There's no quarrel. There are no concrete examples of the fact that, in the area of our European policy, in the area of European integration, the President, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Government, the Prime Minister acted in a different way on European soil. I would also like to remind you that the mandates are being prepared, which are well coordinated. Members of the Government shall hold positions on the basis of mandates approved by the Government of the Czech Republic. We also approve the mandates, after all, we approve foreign trips for the President of the Republic and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the President of the Republic, the documents for the President of the Republic are also being prepared on the ground of the European Union. If I mention another important line concerning the security of the Czech Republic. Our security strategy, security policy is defined by our membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. We are members of the North Atlantic Alliance. We work in her structures. Again, the procedure of representatives of the Czech Republic in structures at those key meetings of the North Atlantic Alliance is based on mandates prepared by the government prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by the Ministry of Defence. I think there is a big difference between whether our country has a problem with the fact that its individual key constitutional actors are doing a different foreign policy, or whether the problem is seen in that our key constitutional officials have different statements or different views on individual situations that occur, whether domestic or foreign policy. I don't think it's possible for everyone to have the exact same view of the matter. So that there are no nuances, which are naturally also given by the political orientation of individual constitutional actors. However, in this situation - and I would call it quite a happy period for the Czech Republic - in those key foreign policy areas such as the question of our European orientation and such as the question of our security orientation, the Foreign Minister, the Government, the Prime Minister, the President, the President of the House, the Presidents of the Senate are able to present a common, unified foreign policy of the Czech Republic. It hasn't been that often in the past. I don't want to remind you of the problems that were here, for example. in a situation where the President of the Republic was Václav Klaus, the government was composed of parties that were partly anti-European, partly pro-European, and there were permanent disputes within the government about our European policy, or between the government and the President, between the Foreign Minister and the President, about how our European foreign policy will be understood and interpreted. So much very briefly about the question you asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u42	Yes, I'm interested. Prime Minister, you haven't quite answered my question. And it seems to me that you underestimate some things in foreign policy. I don't know if it's because you don't understand it or want to admit it, but even the statements of the representatives of our state have symbolic significance, foreign observation, are extremely important and cannot exist here in fundamental matters contradictions such as for example. relations with Russia, NATO and other matters. You yourself said that the contradictions existed, that you had to talk to Mr. President, you reprimanded the First Deputy Secretary of State. So don't tell us there are no contradictions. And I deliberately mentioned here what Mr Drulák thinks and what he writes in his texts, because that is reflected in the proposed Foreign Policy Concept. I will read you one quote: "Czech foreign policy is based on the political tradition of Czech humanism presented in the 20th century by Masaryk, reform communism or dissident movement in particular." Is this really the concept of foreign policy that you will present to us, with which you agree and according to which the Czech foreign policy will follow?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u43	I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u44	Thank you. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the government plays a logical role and must play a unifying role in foreign policy. Because there's no one else to play that role. Here I consider a key agreement between the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. There is agreement between the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister on these key issues and very good coordination. This is also reflected in the fact that, unlike the past, we do not have two State secretaries for the European Union, but we only need one. Only one Secretary of State for the European Union! In the past we had one at the State Department, the other we had at the Office of the Government. This was about how foreign policy coordination was carried out at the time. [[15.30 hours]] The concept of foreign policy is valid when it is approved by the government. I do not want to comment on opinions or any comments or initial proposals of the foreign policy concept. Only when it is approved by the government will this be the basis for which I will naturally answer to the Chamber of Deputies here, because the Chamber of Deputies has a controlling role to play towards the government and in this regard. As far as reprimanding Deputy Drulák is concerned, I must say that I do not have to remind Deputy Drulák through the media, only I have responded to the questions of journalists on this matter. That wasn't my initiative. I responded to press questions and tried to answer them consistently. As far as the President is concerned, we have made a significant change. The President of the Republic is elected directly by the citizens, which means his mandate is no longer based on the current political composition of the Chamber of Deputies. The President, as it has happened today, is even a member of a party that is not represented in the Chamber of Deputies or was a member of it. Logically, it has its own political views and priorities, but I see it as a task for a member of the government, Prime Minister, Foreign Minister to achieve better coordination of the President's statements with the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister's statements. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u45	I thank the Prime Minister for this reply. The seventh interviewer is Mr Karel Fiedler, who will interpel Mr Bohuslav Sobotka on the salary of managers in companies with a share of the state. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, Prime Minister. I would like to respond to a matter that has long been referred to by our public and moves the views of various people and citizens, and that is the level of pay for managers in companies with state participation. We know that the amount of these salaries, the amount of various golden parachutes, severance payments are often criticized. In particular, I would like to mention the case where I know that I have been informed that in such an undertaking, for example, it was written in the agreement that a staff member of 12 months' salary would be paid even if he resigned himself. That was indeed an absurd situation. I would therefore like to ask what the government intends to do on this matter. If you are interested in dealing with this situation that has been neglected in the long run. If you are satisfied with this situation and what concrete steps will be taken in order to avoid such extreme cases and situations that these managers, the various deputy ministers, are paid much higher than the top politicians in our state - perhaps your positions. I really believe that your position, and now I will not evaluate your work, Prime Minister, is perhaps one of the most demanding management positions in my eyes. We have a number of managers and directors of businesses whose incomes are several times higher than the top positions in our state, producing huge losses in the management of these businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u47	I thank Mr Fiedler. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u48	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I think that there are two things that need to be distinguished as regards the remuneration of state managers. The first plane is the salary of such managers. The point is that the salary is really competitive, so that it is not only seemingly competitive, and that the founding ministries and those who are responsible for the operation of state or semi-state firms have clear information about the situation on the market when they hire new managers to lead these companies. In short, so that these managers are not overpaid because of some political pressure or because of some personal sympathy or the like. So it's about really setting the level of remuneration for state-owned corporate management here, considering how these people would be paid on the market in their abilities and qualifications. The second thing that, in my view, is worse and more complicated, and there are much bigger problems with it, is the negotiation of some above-standard conditions in contracts for these state and parastate managers. Here I think that there is a much bigger problem, and this is shown at the moment when exchanges take place, and it has occurred in the past, the directors of these companies just in the form of competing clauses, and it could also be called a golden parachute, disproportionately high severance pay, which has been paid in the past. I am glad that the issue of the remuneration of managers in semi-state companies was addressed by the government in February 2010. At that time, it approved certain principles for remuneration and principles for how the places where the government would want to know how state and parastate corporate managers were rewarded should be identified. During the negotiations of our government, we updated the management information with the fact that the information collected by the government was related to the competence of 27 companies, for which a total of 77 functional positions were established, which were evaluated and evaluated. I would also like to say that we have agreed that the Minister of Finance will update the 2010 principles precisely in order to allow us to align the methodology between ministries in the area of severance, competitive clauses, the so-called golden parachutes. So we want the government to approve, in the first half of next year, the adjusted principles that would unite the conditions in this area for all top managers in companies where the state has a stake or where the state is to participate. So the answer to your question is that the government has dealt with this issue, we have dealt with it specifically on 12 November this year, and we are ready to return to it in the first half of 2015 on the basis of the task that we have tasked the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister to supplement these principles, propose to supplement them, and revise and update how management of state and parastate companies is rewarded and whether these are relations that correspond to market relations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u50	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. She was quite satisfactory. So we will be waiting to see what will be the solution to the situation, as you indicated, in the first half of 2015, what will be the government's steps. But why I took advantage of the opportunity to respond to your answer is that you were here talking about competitiveness and assessment. I'll try to translate it into a slightly more prosaic and graphical form. There are a number of companies here with a share of the state that, as far as I know right, fall under the Ministry of Finance. So it means that the finance minister, now let's not forget that he's Mr. Andrej Babiš, he's such a small minister, the minister in general without a name, and he's got several managers under him who have many times the pay. I really consider this situation absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u51	I thank Mr Fiedler. Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u52	Thank you. I think that if we compare salaries in some positions in the state administration, it may not necessarily be just the position of minister as senior representative of the office, but I can mention, for example, the salaries of the Deputys, I believe that a number of Deputys are similarly employed by managers, such as the directors of these companies, but there are regulated tariff rates in the state administration. We know for ourselves how difficult it has been here, and there is a debate on the salaries of constitutional officials on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. After all, this applies to the remuneration of ministers. As regards the remuneration of representatives, or members of the management of state and semi-state companies, these are not covered by any regulation other than regulation in the form of this Government resolution. That is why I think it is important that at least this regulation, which we are implementing in the form of a government resolution, ensures that salaries are not unduly high and that no unjustified benefits are granted in relation to the logical need for a manager to end up in his office someday. So we would not want to allow disproportionately high salaries, and we do not want any unfair and inadequate gold parachutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Jaroslav Holík, who will interpel the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the matter of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice, will give the eighth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u54	Dear Prime Minister, yesterday there was another explosion in the ammunition warehouse of the Imex Group. It was Warehouse No. 12, which is more than a kilometer away from the previously exploded warehouse No. 16. I note that this warehouse has been inspected and marked as safe. Prime Minister, I request an investigation into how the ammunition could have been initiated when the entire area was closed to civilians and only police and military personnel have access. Or are you saying it was different? Furthermore, Prime Minister, after the explosions of these warehouses, it was decided that the premises in Vrbětice would be cleared out. Will Bochemie's company also be cleared out? The company Bochemie deals with the disposal of solid rocket fuel and has its warehouses No. 3, 5 and 6 in the said area. The disposal process is that it grinds and exhales the oxygenator that separates from the burning substance. According to reliable sources, there are 300-400 tonnes of this fuel in this warehouse. This fuel doesn't have to explode, it's enough to start burning because poisonous substances such as ammonia, hydrochloric acid or nitrogen oxides are created during burning, so in that case neither locals nor gas masks would be saved. Prime Minister, will Bochemie be cleared out, or will they just move the warehouses into the processing area, much closer to the residential buildings?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u55	I thank Mr Holík. The Prime Minister now has the floor to answer him. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the area in Vrbetice has an area of 335 hectares. This area contains 61 buildings, 31 of which are rented buildings. The area at this time is owned by the Military Technical Institute, which is subject to the Ministry of Defence. The ammunition that was stored here is entirely private-owned ammunition and was stored by private companies that rented these individual warehouses from an organization established by the Ministry of Defence to store their ammunition there. As regards the situation concerning Bochemie, here is a similar situation, that is, Bochemie is doing business on the premises of Vlachovice-Vrbětice and I must say that I have been informed about the nature of this company's business, and it is certainly a topic that is dealt with in the context of crisis management, and it will certainly also be dealt with by the Bureau of the Security Council of the State, which will meet directly in the municipality of Vlachovice on Saturday afternoon. This means, directly in Vlachovice, the meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State will take place on Saturday, and I also want to know, on the basis of your initiative, the answers to the question of possible risks in terms of continuing Bochemie's business in this location. I assume that the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps will be able to identify these risks and give recommendations in terms of the correct procedure that should be implemented. Otherwise, what you said is true. A gradual shipment of ammunition has been prepared. We, on the basis of the situation, which was the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, called on the private owners of the ammunition not to take place at the moment when the transport from the main bomb engineer, the head of intervention, was allowed, so that they would start transporting the ammunition, but to start transporting the ammunition, due to the explosions that took place yesterday. There I would just like to say that the Ministry of the Interior, on the basis of information from the police on the spot, specified what actually happened in this area, because the first information came in the morning, when the first explosions were recorded at 7.15 and the Minister of the Interior was informed that there was a presumption that the ignition occurred at the epicenter site. That was the first information provided to the Home Secretary. I received this information from the Home Secretary as Prime Minister because I turned to him on the basis of information that appeared in the media. This was the first information available, and then, as the situation became clear, the Police of the Czech Republic specified information about what really happened in this area. I assume that information on the current situation, what the current risks are, what the current recommendations are from the perspective of the strategy of the process in this area, will be the subject of Saturday's meeting of the Security Council of the State. I firmly believe that both the safety of the residents in the surrounding villages and, of course, the safety of the Police and the Army of the Czech Republic, who are involved in this very risky territory, will be properly taken care of. Likewise, what I said yesterday during the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The task of the Police and the Army of the Czech Republic is to ensure the airtight closure of the premises so that no one else has access to the premises without police permission. Even since, in recent years, according to the information available to me, the Military Technical Institute has not invested in the fence that is losing the entire area, the fence shows a number of technical damage. This means that there is no doubt a need for physical security around the premises so that no one can access the premises and no one is at risk for life or health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Holík has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u58	Prime Minister, thank you for your information. Just for the rest of you: I'm from the region, and I've been to that area or in the affected municipalities more times than everyone here has ever been Members together. I just want to say, there's been three burns at Bochemie's grinding process, and it's from reliable sources. It's always been possible to put it out. And I have one more request. I hope to be able to come to this meeting, that I will not be hindered the way I did last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u59	I thank Mr Holík and the Prime Minister wants to answer the supplementary question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u60	Thank you. Of course, I do not want to question the Member's experience, given that he comes from the region and he knows the region personally. I have information either from my visits to this region or mediated, either from the members of the Regional Crisis Staff or from the Minister of Defence or from the Minister of the Interior. So that's the information I have logically as Prime Minister, because unfortunately, I don't come from that region. I don't want to question the fact that the situation is very serious. I believe that the state authorities have not at any time underestimated the situation since the explosion in the ammunition warehouse area in mid-October. I want to remind you that both at the first moment the population was evacuated and the population was evacuated even in the case of other significant explosions. Now it is necessary for the police to identify the causes of the explosion and to establish further procedures to ensure maximum security for citizens as well as for intervening police officers, firefighters and soldiers. I think what is most important at the moment is the protection and rescue of human lives, the property of citizens in the communities concerned and the establishment of a strategy that will allow us to calm the security situation in the surrounding communities over the next few days, weeks. The strategy of the removal of ammunition had strong support for the citizens of the municipalities concerned, it had clear support for the mayors of all surrounding municipalities. When I spoke to them, all these mayors supported the intention to transport ammunition before a wider bailout was carried out. [[15.50 hours]] It turns out that it was the right intention that police bomb squads correctly pointed out that if a flat-screen remediation was carried out, it could lead to a threat to the ammunition stored in individual objects. And as it turns out, if there really was an explosion of the object, that the ammunition even stored in the objects may be unstable from this point of view. So this is the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Ladislav Velebný, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the issue of food quality, is prepared with the ninth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u62	Vice-President, thank you. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some great news has recently come out on News. Czech food in quality and safety is the best from post-communist countries. They claim to own 23rd place worldwide. Poland, whose food is often considered to be less quality, ended only three rungs behind the Czech Republic. Any person who is at least interested in the quality of the food he is buying must be immediately clear that something is not right here. All you have to do is remember the repeated food scandals. When we look at Czech supermarkets offering food that is less quality than food offered in Western Europe, I ask why they can't replace it with quality Czech food. That's the question. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you what measures the government will push for only quality food products to reach consumers when we already have the Food Act No. 139/2014 Coll., which will take effect from 1 January next year, and whose aim - this amended legislation - was to adapt Czech food law to European Union legislation. And one more question that has something to do with this. Prime Minister, with regard to the legislative work plan of the Government, I would like to ask about the state of affairs of the upcoming amendment to Act No. 395/2009, on significant market power in the sale and misuse of agricultural and food products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u63	I thank Mr Velebný. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u64	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, maybe I will start from the end. The amendment to the Act on Major Market Power is ready to negotiate with the government. The legislative board has already modified the proposal. The proposal was placed at the Government's meeting, but was withdrawn from the Government's meeting. Among other things, we have received a request from the social partners that the proposal be discussed in the Council of Economic and Social Agreements before the government finally approves it. I would like to inform you that I agreed with employers' representatives and trade unions a few days ago that the issue of the law on significant market power will also be included in the Tripartite Board meeting on February 2 next year. I suppose, after the trialogue, nothing should prevent the law from being shifted to the government's meeting, the government has discussed it and sent it to the Chamber of Deputies. So here we are at the advanced stage of preparation, I just didn't want us to disrupt social dialogue and disrespect the social partners' request for the law to be discussed in tripartite. So much for the issue of the amendment of the law on significant market power. Otherwise, I want to say that I am a supporter of this law to remain a part of our legal order. I would consider it a way back if we removed the law from our legal order, as some political parties suggest. I think it is a law that should prevent discrimination and prevent abuse of the position either on the side of sellers or on the side of suppliers. He should just be fair, balanced. In my opinion, this arrangement will also be for the benefit of the consumer. With regard to the government's measures in terms of ensuring that citizens can buy and buy quality food - I want to thank the Chamber of Deputies here because it has really done a great deal of work. By approving the amendment to the Food Act, which will apply from 1 January next year, some measures have been implemented, which not only adapt our regulations to European Union legislation for the benefit of consumers, but also improve consumer awareness, because the scope and presentation of data for unpacked foods, such as the manufacturer's address or the types of food that will be provided for by implementing legislation, the quantity of the main ingredient and so on. But it also introduces a new information obligation for food business operators on 1 January to make the list of five countries with the largest share of sales visible and legible when entering the store. This concerns those companies whose sales revenues exceed CZK 5 billion over the period, i.e. large business chains. Thus, it is not the country of origin, but the country from which the food vendor draws the food. This amendment also raises the maximum rate of penalty for the placing on the market of foodstuffs which do not meet the requirements for correct labelling or qualitative parameters. In particular, this is the quality and the sanctions increase from a maximum originally of CZK 3 million to a new maximum, which is CZK 10 million. At the same time, the supervisory authorities that fall under the Ministry of Agriculture are also adapting and expanding their competences, which I also consider to be a very positive and logical step. I am convinced that, together with the government's active approach, with the government's unwillingness to liquidate control and inspection bodies, unlike the previous governments, we will not make cuts that would mean that these organisations will be disrupted, dissolved, merged, or released by controllers, or that we want to stabilise them budgetaryly, staffily stabilize them, we want to equip them with better legislation, which has become partly due to the adoption of this amendment. And, of course, the government will try to use the control capacity that the state has at its disposal to guarantee citizens that there will be great pressure on manufacturers and sellers to comply with our regulations, to comply with our standards and to protect consumers to the utmost from encountering poor quality food or food, where false data will be reported, where consumers will be deceived. Just everywhere, the state should be very active and be very active.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u65	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Velebný has an additional question? He doesn't. Mrs Jana Černochová is prepared with further interpellation. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, I appeal to you in connection with the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbetice. I agree with your statement yesterday that the state was not prepared for a similar crisis situation. In my opinion, it does not make sense at the moment to look for the culprit of this unpreparedness and, above all, it is necessary to do everything in order to correct this situation as soon as possible. I would therefore like to ask you what steps the government has already taken to prevent similar situations. I would like to ask whether you have already given the instruction to revise both the relevant legislation and the related crisis documents so that the readiness of the integrated rescue system components is higher in such situations. In connection with this tragedy, it became clear that, for example, the IZS had no idea what ammunition and the amount in the ammunition warehouse. I believe that this may not only be Vrbětice's concern. I therefore want to ask whether the state should have sufficient control over all ammunition warehouses. Does he know exactly what ammo and how much is in each warehouse? Finally, whether the government already knows exactly what type of ammunition was in the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u67	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u68	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I really agree with what the Member has said. What is crucial now is that we do not waste time and learn from the crisis that, when, I believe, on October 16 there was an explosion in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, only in that moment and in the coming hours and days from the components of the integrated rescue system, information about how much ammunition is actually concreted in this location. This means that they were not available at the same time as the event was reported to the integrated rescue system, so at the same time no such comprehensive information was available. Of course, the commander of the fire rescue force's intervention, as I was informed, knew they were going to interfere with the ammunition storage facility, i.e. he had a framework idea of the risks he might encounter there, and he reacted quite correctly at that point. But there was no such thing as part of the crisis documentation. [[16.00 hours]] You asked specific questions. Yes, I asked the Minister of the Interior to prepare a revision of the relevant legislation at the meeting of the Security Council to present a list and a map of the sites where ammo is stored in the Czech Republic in the largest amount. This means, I want this matter to be discussed in the dedicated regime on the State Security Council, and I will want the Ministry of Interior and other institutions to ensure that the risks associated with the storage of ammunition are linked to individual crisis plans, whether in individual regions or, of course, to crisis documentation at national level. Among other things, it has also been shown that the State does not have any back-up areas where such ammunition could be transported, and if there were, for example, a sale of the premises in May, as originally planned, a little earlier, so the State would not actually have a location in May to make there an event. He could have transferred the ammo. So here I think it's obvious that there are gaps both in terms of regulating those who trade and store explosives, ammunition, weapons, so there are certain gaps in terms of regulation. These need to be removed in legislation and, at the same time, clear precautionary measures need to be taken and control mechanisms on the part of the state must also be strengthened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u69	Does the Member have an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u70	I have an additional question. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what type of ammunition was in the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u71	Prime Minister, if he still wants to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u72	I apologise, Madame, for asking for a very specific answer. I must say that there are about 31 buildings in Vrbětice, which are used by commercial entities, i.e. ammunition warehouses there are a large number, stored there, I suspect, five legal entities, i.e. several entities, but I must say that as I was informed about the primary explosion that occurred on 16 October, so I was informed that they were stored there as well as mine. Air bombs and that were stored there artillery grenades.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u73	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. The 16th hour has passed, and we will continue continuously to interpel on the members of the government. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. Mr Daniel Korte, who will interpel the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on visa policy towards the citizens of the Russian Federation, will have the first interview according to the winning order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, in its annual report, the Security Information Service warned against the growing influence of illegal spies from the Russian Federation under the cloak of traders, tourists or academics in the Czech Republic. It is, I quote literally from the report, an extremely high number, related to the massive propaganda, propaganda of the Russian Federation, whose aim is to disinformation, for example. about the real events in Ukraine and thereby influence public opinion, both to strengthen Russia's influence in the field of political and economic not only in the Czech Republic but also throughout the European Union. The illegal activities of Russian intelligence services in the Czech Republic are also confirmed by Military Intelligence. Dear Minister, don't you think it is time to restrict the issue of visas to the citizens of the Russian Federation and cancel the permanent residence permit for those who have them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u75	I thank Mr Korte and ask the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think so. I do not think that collective blame can be applied, and the citizens of the Russian Federation are subject to exactly the same conditions as other foreigners. Each application is decided strictly individually according to the law, regardless of the nationality of the applicant and all requests of these people, i.e. all these foreigners, including the citizens of the Russian Federation, are subject to a highly complex examination, including through the verification of the security forces of the Czech Republic, i.e. the same services you mentioned, or at least one of them, are involved in the verification of the application for this status in the territory of the Czech Republic. The average duration of proceedings is about 60 days, which corresponds to the procedure for other Member States of the European Union, and the legal period at that time is 90 days. In the Czech Republic, a project has been launched in the last two years for an accelerated and simplified procedure for granting long-term visas, which is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and CzechInvest, and of course also participants in these rapid visas and accelerated processes can be citizens of the Russian Federation. Here too, the participation and supervision of the security forces of the Czech Republic, including the BIS, is included. I guess that's all for your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u77	I thank the Minister for his clear answer. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u78	I also thank the Minister for his clear answer, but I am not saying that you have completely reassured me. It is necessary to prepare for future wars, not for past ones. That is why I ask: What else must happen, Minister, to take the measures that I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u79	I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u80	I'm looking for words in vain to confess. The process of obtaining permanent residence in the Czech Republic is under the scrutiny of security forces and each such individual application is scanned by BIS and other services. This means that every citizen, not only from the Russian Federation, but also from other countries under the relevant legislation, passes a security scan and often, I cannot quantify, but often these requests are rejected by our secret services. There's no recommendation. I think that the network that is currently set up is set up professionally very well, and indeed, if there is any change on the political scene and it would have to be within our accession agreements in agreement with our European partners in the framework of European legislation, then there can be some kind of tightening up, but so far I do not see the conditions or material or legal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u81	Thank you, Minister. We will move on to the second interview that Mrs Chalánková was originally to have, but she withdrew her intervention. So we're getting to the third interpellation. Mr Janulík will intersect the absent Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the matter of Variomedical. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent minister - I have heard that the Minister has some urgent exit meeting, like from making on Thursday when they are interpelling. I would like to ask Minister Němeček about the purchase of Siemens's multidetector CT device SOMATOM Definition AS 64, which he purchased at the Ostrava University Hospital under his supervision in 2009 from me the obscure company VarioMedical, which happens to be based in my district city of Břeclav, and paradoxical is that she registered for her activities in this district city two months before the competition for purchasing this device. The company was originally s.r.o., today it is a joint stock company, transformed in September last year. She moved the address from one street to another. [[16.10 hours]] We who live there, I've been in that region for over 50 years, so I never knew that such a company existed there. It is, of course, only a hollow box with a sign somewhere on a small house, but however this company was able to sell the Ostrava University Hospital such a CT device for about CZK 28.4 million. I assure you that in that district city no one has sold such a large technological unit for many years and probably will not sell it, and I happen to be the director of Břeclav Hospital, I know how much it was possible to get such a CT machine at that time because I had done something similar about nine years before at the district hospital, and of course the price was very high, according to the control and audit findings of that time by about 43 percent. So, in your opinion, the usual price, set by the auditor, is to point out that the audit took place on subsidies from European money, was set at 19 million. I guarantee you that I could compete for at least 5 million less than 19.9. However, the Ostrava University Hospital from some insignificant firm in Břeclav, which no one has ever heard of and does not know, will buy a CT for CZK 28.4 million. I could buy it for at least half of it. But how does the University Hospital in Ostrava come up with some completely meaningless firm that's gonna be set up for two months before the Ostrava University Hospital announces a competition to buy a device like this? By the way, the Siemens manufacturer has its headquarters in Erlagen, Bavaria, and if you imagine how the whole business will take place, Siemens's representation exists in Prague, the only one for the Czech Republic, and the University Hospital in Ostrava will buy such a technological unit from an insignificant obscure company from Břeclav. The spicy point is that VarioMedical is a subsidiary of Pharma Group, which is based in Velké Leváry. That doesn't tell you anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u83	Ambassador, I'm so sorry, although I'm alone and I love you, but the time is only two minutes, you've already exceeded it a great deal. Please, if you'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u84	So I'm asking for an answer. By the way, the Pharma Group company is in trouble with the appeal of the Slovak Minister of Health. We have a beautiful connection here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u85	I thank the honourable Member, who will be answered in writing. Another interviewer is Mr. Josef Zahradníček, who will interpel the present Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš on the matter of a Member's contribution to the EU budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u86	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President and, above all, Minister, my interpellation will be very short on you, but I also ask for a written reply. Many citizens ask me at various meetings, and I must admit that I cannot answer them, how much the Czech Republic is contributing and how much it has received in the budget of the European Union and how much money it has received from the European Union's treasury in a given year. I therefore ask you for an answer, and I would like to point out once again that the answer in writing is how much the Czech Republic's contributions to the EU Treasury were in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and also in 2014 and how much the Czech Republic received from the EU in those years. Thank you for your answers and I am sorry that I do not know where the information is available. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u87	I thank Mr Zahradníček. Five, Minister. You have five minutes to answer. I beg your answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I should say that the European Union is funding only Member States' contributions. He doesn't have loans. What's going to come in, it's going to flow out. She doesn't have much money, so now she owes Member States about 23 billion. and to us about 1.5 and by the end of the year will owe us about 2.5. However, we had a chance to get 1 580 billion from 2004 to 2020. With regard to 2014, the EU has an approved budget of 135 billion. EUR and the Czech Republic contribute approximately 41.6 billion to funding. CZK, i.e. approximately 1,13 per cent of total EU contributions. Since joining the EU, our country has been a net beneficiary of EU funds, so by the end of June this year we have received 390 billion from the budget since joining the Union. CZK more than we have put into the EU budget. This means that, overall, between 2004 and mid-2014, we have taken 370 billion into the EU budget. Kč and got 760. This year, accounts were revised on the basis of gross national income and national statistical authorities published in September this year the actual amount of gross national income reported on the basis of Eurostat requirements. Given that the main source of revenue for the EU budget is based on the amount of gross national income of individual Member States, updated data on the actual amount of gross national income of previous years up to the amount of Member States' contributions to the EU budget in 2014 were projected. On the basis of the adjustment of the gross national income account, Member States were to make additional contributions of 9.5 billion to the EU budget on 1 December. EUR. The biggest impact of the revision was on the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. There was a debate during the last Ecofin session, where the United Kingdom made some sort of payment schedule, mainly from political titles, not from the title of having no money. The revision of the account also had an impact on the Czech Republic. Thanks to the revision, our GNI has also increased and the Czech Republic has had to make additional payments of 2.1 billion. CZK, i.e. approximately 5% of our annual contribution. If these additional contributions are not used to finance policies in 2014, we think they will be transferred to the 2015 budget and the Member States will therefore reduce their contributions next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zahradníček does not have an additional question, and we will proceed to the next interpelation. Mrs Radka Maxová will intersect the absent Minister Marcel Chládek on drug policy in schools. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, absent Minister of Education. Again, I will quote the SAO's finding under number 1225 of funds provided for drug policy, which pointed out the considerable fragmentation and inefficiency of the distribution of these funds. Overall, in 2012, a total of 587.3 million were spent on the state administration's budget, self-government on drug policy. Kč. From the point of view of the functional breakdown of expenditure in 2020 (?) there has been an increase in all areas except prevention, enforcement and coordination of research, evaluation. The issue of prevention of drug policy falls primarily under the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports Department, which is responsible for prevention of risk behaviour in children and youth, i.e. including the prevention of crime and the use of addictive substances. To ensure the quality of preventive activities, a system for certification of preventive programmes, which was suspended in 2011, was launched at national level in 2006. In 2012, the third revision of the basic elements of the whole system was completed, standards of professional competence of primary prevention providers, certification rules and methodology of the local survey and the certificater's manual were published. In 2012, the Ministry of Education prepared a new certification system to cover all forms of risk behaviour in line with new standards. Under the authority of the Ministry of Education in June 2013, the National Institute for Education was opened to the certification workplace, which will coordinate the whole system. In 2011, the draft amendment of Act No.383/2005 Coll., on teaching staff, was prepared and together with it the draft amendment of Government Decree No. 75/2005 Coll., on determining the scope of direct teaching, direct educational, direct special pedagogical and direct pedagogical-psychological activities of pedagogical workers, which had a reduction in the direct level of teaching obligation to help ensure more favourable conditions for the activities of school prevention methodologies as well as the methodology of prevention in pedagogical-psychological counseling. However, these adjustments did not take place in 2012. So my question to you is, what is the state of prevention of drug policy in our schools and whether, in your opinion, it is sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u91	Thank you, Mrs Maxová. It will be answered in writing. Mrs Jana Černochová, who will interpel the Minister of Defence on the transport cars of CASA, is now coming with another interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It'll be easier than you think. I'm pulling interpelation number 6, number 36, number 48 and number 52, because I understand that the situation in Vrbětice is where the Secretary of Defense is and that he apologized from today's interpelations, so there's no point in me interpelling. I'm downloading them all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u93	Yes. Thank you, Madame. I'm registering your download, and we'll proceed to another interpellation. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will intersect Minister Marksová-Tominová on children with an autistic spectrum disorder on the care allowance for these people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the absent Madam Secretary. Thank you for your written answer. Lately I have met with several suggestions such as certainly many of you from the citizens receiving a care allowance or the owner's I.D. Their aim was for objective reasons to obtain a higher contribution to care or a higher degree of disability. Not only has they not been recognised by assessment doctors, they have been shocked after their appeal to the Board of Appeal in the form of a reduction in the current amount of the allowance for care or invalidity. The administration doesn't allow it. The administrative authority cannot aggravate the situation of the citizen. Such behavior is particularly striking in the case of disabled children who are dependent on the care of their parents. Lately, I've been dealing with autistic children and the situation of their families. I regret to say that the authorities in the Czech Republic do not exactly meet them. Caring for an autistic child often requires day care, so one parent usually cannot work. Such a child is sensitive to any change, needs order and needs to be worked intensively with. I know that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has issued a new methodological instruction that should prevent such cases. But I'm not sure that's enough. On some points, for example, it is discriminatory for autistic children. So I ask you to answer the question, how is it possible that there is a reduction in the contribution to care and invalidity rates despite the administrative rules in cases where it is clear that the reduction is not in the public interest? Or is it in the public interest to take away the already helpless families of autistic children of those few thousand so that they still have to solve their existential problems? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u95	I thank Mrs Pastuchová, who will be answered in writing. Mr Jan Farský will give another interview to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the preparation of the Act on the Register of Contracts. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was exactly one year on Tuesday, 2 December, and it was the first anniversary since the 42 press arrived in the House and the Treaty Register Act became a proposal and press. Since then, he passed his first reading in January this year, the last time in the committees was June, this July the Prime Minister at a meeting that I had the opportunity to attend, commissioned a job for the Ministry of the Interior in order that he could be discussed in September in the second and I suppose also in the third reading. It's December, so I'd like to ask you what is the state of the current preparation of this law, which should now lie at the Ministry of the Interior. When can we expect them to arrive in the House? That's my question to prepare the contract register bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u97	Thank you, Mr Farský. I'm sure the Home Secretary will be pleased with that. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u98	I do not know how much the Members are pleased with, so you will sometimes explain this to me. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there is anything important that has been said here today. Everything that Mr Farský, through Mr President, has said here, I want to say that it is true. However, it is about the fact that we agreed at the meeting that the government would not prepare its own proposal, but would make a comprehensive amendment to this proposal, which was tabled by Mr Farský. This means that this is not a government proposal and the Ministry of the Interior is not a gesture Ministry, which should prepare a comprehensive amendment or a comprehensive proposal from the so-called. government workshops. The Coalition agreed to form a working group led by Mr Vondráček of the ANO movement, which is to prepare this complex amendment. We have delivered all texts and technical support to this working group, as agreed. For us, it was Mrs. Deputy Minister Krnáčová. According to the latest information I have received from Mr Vondráček, the text is prepared and the documentation for the award of the RIA study is prepared, as has the coalition agreed, as well as the impact study that this law can bring. I suppose if this is true, and I have no reason not to believe that the RIA study could be commissioned sometime in the beginning of next year. The question is, when will it be done? Following receipt of this impact study, it is possible to continue these work, my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u99	I thank the Minister and ask the Member for an additional question. Did the Minister of the Interior please him?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u100	I didn't get an answer. Let me ask you something else. So will the Ministry of the Interior set a deadline for each body to prove its impact when the request for the RIA is incompletely made for the draft of the law that is now being amended to the version? Because if this is not established, we can have the same conversation here in June next year, December next year, maybe two years from now, and say that we are waiting for a reply from ČD Cargo or ČEZ or anyone else who should submit this answer. From my point of view, the term has already to be given, because this law has been supported by all or 165 Members here from the House before the elections, 78 including 7 members of the government have signed under it, and it now seems that none of them want it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u101	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u102	I will bring this matter from the position of the Ministry of Interior to the Coalition Council and we will look for a uniform procedure, because you have listed here several organizations that are subject to different ministries than the Ministry of the Interior. That means that my colleagues and I will have to find a consensus on what methodology we're going to set them a deadline to make the term real, to give up their answers in this impact study. That, of course, is what I am going to do, because I think this law is necessary. On the other hand, I think that even with regard to the impact study, it is appropriate that we have a so-called bathtub. they didn't spill the baby. After the coalition council, I promise you personally that I will give you the opinion of the coalition council, including the deadline within which these answers should be delivered for the study to be processed, so that we do not meet here in the same situation in a year's time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u103	I thank the Minister for his particular promise. I like to promise him personally that if he wants to know how pleased the Members are that I will tell him in private. Mr René Číp, Mr.Defense Minister Martin Stropnický, will now intersect in the case of the absence of soldiers of the Czech army in commemorative acts to honor the RA monument. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u104	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, I'm interrogating you on the participation of the soldiers of the Czech army in commemorative acts to honor the memory of the fallen Red Armed Forces. In October this year there was a ceremonial celebrity of the remains of the Red Armed Forces in Hustopeč near Brno. There was also a certain cyborg of ČSBS. According to his information, there were hundreds of people and the Consul General of the Russian Federation in Brno, Andrej Jevgenjevič Šaraškin. On the other hand, the army's workers are said to have been banned from participating, because NATO's army is not supposed to participate in the piets of today's Russian Federation. I ask you if such a ban exists. Next year we will be celebrating the round anniversary of the end of World War II and I would very much hate for these celebrations to be accompanied by any excesses, and, on the contrary, I expect a dignified and representative approach from the Army of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u105	Thank you, Mr Číp. He will be answered in writing for the absence of the Minister. With further intervention by Mr Jaroslav Borka, who will interpel the present Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec on discrimination against candidates for admission to the Police of the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, recruitment campaigns are launched from time to time for admission to the Police of the Czech Republic, in which there are several conditions. I just want to stop by one of them, age. The lower limit is laid down by law, but the upper station is not established. Physical and psychological tests are, of course, a prerequisite for admission. I quote: Physical, health and personality competence is demonstrated during the admission procedure, which includes an examination aimed at detecting the presence of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Physical fitness is demonstrated by physical fitness tests, medical fitness is assessed by a doctor and personal fitness is checked by psychological examination. So many quotes. My question, Minister, is whether you think it is right that, for example, a university-educated person who is 48 years old is not even allowed to do these tests and is indicated to him that he is inefficient to work with the Police of the Czech Republic for his age. As I was told, for example, physical tests would be the worst in the first half of currently employed police officers in the region. I therefore ask if it is not a waste of human potential and, above all, whether it is discrimination against the applicant. In this context, I would still ask whether there is a rule for working with the Police of the Czech Republic, and it does not matter whether it is an errand or criminal service, this unwritten rule and whether you know about it. In many ways, age does not matter, but the real state of the mental and physical forces of the individual person. A lot of young people report for police work, but there are only two physical tests out of 40 candidates. Minister, thank you for your response and I ask you to consider accepting more mature candidates to meet the demands of, for example, Mr Korte, through Mr President, and others in detecting intelligence agents, for example, agents of the United States of America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u107	I thank Mr Borka. Please, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I'll start with the interpellation. Dear Member, I do not know of any unwritten rule at the Police of the Czech Republic, which should set some kind of upper age limit for joining the Police of the Czech Republic. And as I have informed the police president, the police are merely and strictly ensuring that the law is respected and enforced. That means, that's exactly the description you gave here, that's physical fitness, fitness, and psychological tests, and the integrity of a person who should be in the position of a police officer. As I was informed by the recruiters, it is quite often that the applicant does not want to take any more tests when he finds out the ad 1 starting salary that he is in the police force, and secondly, that he would have to go through an annual course which is essential to become a police officer. That means an annual course that usually takes place in secondary police schools. If you have any particular case in mind, I would be very happy if you would hand it over to me so that we can conduct an appropriate investigation into this case. And I will ensure that this case is investigated and that you are given a clear answer to the particular person you were talking about. That means that college-educated guy at the age of 48, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u109	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not want an additional question. I thank the honourable Member, too. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, will give another interview on the priorities of the current government. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u110	Dear Minister, yesterday, when discussing the draft state budget, you said that you did not understand why a proposal was made to increase expenditure in the area of restoration of cultural monuments. I have given the reasons several times, and I am happy to do so again. I follow two principles: repetition is the mother of wisdom, and patience brings roses - and so far I have not been disappointed. The problem lies in the approved Partnership Agreement between the Czech Republic and the EU. On its basis, only UNESCO monuments, national cultural monuments and monuments in monuments will be supported. The other 40,000 cultural monuments from European money will not be supported. Therefore, there is nothing left but to address their recovery from national sources. There is no need to create any new programmes, but to strengthen the existing ones. And that is exactly what the Committee on Budgets did when it supported the strengthening of the chapter of the Ministry of Culture and the MMR by CZK 400 million. What are the sights, it's obvious. Chapels, various historical buildings, sculptures, monuments or other sites that are characteristic of the place, which tell of its history, which make it simply something more. Unfortunately, cities and villages for their reconstruction, which is also significant in terms of the economic development of our rural areas, often do not have enough of their own money, so it is the only solution for funding by the state. Dear Minister, the reasons are now clear and their seriousness is clear. So I believe you understand why I've made a proposal to restore cultural monuments. If you don't, of course I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u111	I thank the Member for the assurance that she is at the disposal of the Minister. Please, Minister, you will now be at the disposal of the Member for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I certainly understand why the honourable Member put it this way. However, when I was not a minister, I was here on the Committee on Budgets, and there the honourable Member made a very reasonable proposal to expand the capacity of primary schools around Prague and we implemented this because it was a budget that we did not create. So I understand. Now I don't understand this proposal because neither did the Minister of Culture, who received an increased budget, and I thought it worked the way it works with the Ministry of Finance, that there are x-persons who actually have some demands coming to me, and we are discussing this. And that budget has been discussed for a very long time and very transparently, which is why, in principle, at the Coalition Council, we have taken the view that the budget has significantly increased the expenditure framework, because, of course, it allows us to raise our tax revenue. So, of course, here, there is a huge deficit in investing not only in monuments, but also in other things within various resorts. So all the requests that Minister Herman has addressed to me this year, the various support of specific monuments, I think we've dealt with, so that's why I was surprised to hear such a proposal. So I understand that, but on the other hand, as I mentioned it, from the position of June to September this year, the spending of individual resorts increased dramatically by almost 20 billion. [[16.40 hours]] And I'm sure the Member of the right-wing party understands that we cannot be indebted and that we need to keep the deficit down and that we want to reduce it. So for this reason, it was fundamentally said to the coalition that we would not accept such proposals. And certainly according to the development of the budget next year, if it turns out that we can save money, the Minister of Culture will come up with it and propose it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u113	Thank you. I ask Mrs Kovářová if she wants to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u114	I would just like to say that the increase in the programme at the Ministry of Culture and at the Ministry of Regional Development does not increase the expenditure of the State, because expenditure frameworks are set. First of all. Secondly, when you talk about primary schools, you didn't believe it then either, and you finally acknowledged that it was a good title that was open. When we talk about investment, investment in monuments increases employment in regions. First of all. Secondly, it is the promotion of tourism and I think that Minister Šlechtová knows what I am talking about, because we need tourism, which will be attended by our citizens in the Czech Republic and will come back repeatedly. I think that Minister Herman certainly, if there were an increase in the grant titles that he has there and which are constantly decreasing and are almost at the limit of meaningfulness, I think he would very much like to welcome it. And it would certainly be welcomed by all mayors of small and large towns and cities, because they do not have money to commemorate today, because they have to address other priorities and monuments they would definitely want to repair. [[Time warning]] Therefore, Minister, I ask you once again to consider your decision. [[repeated time alerts]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u115	I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u116	I'd just like to make it clear, Madame, that proposal you made with those schools was great. 30 municipalities volunteered, and the program is 800 million. I was just outside asking you why your former finance minister didn't give it to you. And I don't want to tell you what you told me. So, as part of the Ministry of Culture, the President here also proposed an increase in film incentives by 500 million. So the budget isn't inflatable. So we're doing the best we can. And we will certainly try to remember these suggestions of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u117	Thank you. Now, I would like another interviewer in order, Mr Hovorka, who is asking a question to Minister Mládek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u118	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, knowledge and compliance with technical standards is a prerequisite for maintaining the competitiveness of Czech companies and the professional level of their designers and technicians in various fields. Until the arrival of Minister Říman, the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing was a publicly beneficial company and according to my information it worked very well. Staff were properly motivated and led to the efficiency and service of the technical professional public. Orientation of 31,000 standards is not easy for small companies, they need professional help for orientation and searching in this flood of regulations. Minister Říman decided that the office would become state, and he would turn it into a money machine for the Ministry of Industry and Trade. You can continue this practice and leave the office as a money machine, but also without the motivation of people for the service of companies and for better orientation in the world of standards, and you probably will also not have motivated people willing to do anything extra at the office to maintain the good reputation of this office and its efficiency, as well as a good service to the professional public, which brings far greater resources to the economy of the state than own sales of standards or access to their reading and printing. There is currently information on the Office's website on the amendment of the price order for the sale of technical standards, when it is essentially to be increased by 100%, respectively. reduce access to reading standards to six months and limit the maximum number of prints of these standards. Minister, do you consider increasing standards and limiting access to reading and printing technical standards to be correct and beneficial for the competitiveness of the Czech economy? Do you consider the existence of the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing as part of the MIT to be correct and beneficial to the professional public and the competitiveness of this office? [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u119	I'll ask Minister Mládek for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u120	Madam President, honourable Member, honourable Members, on your question, I would like to say that the Government's resolution of 16 June 2014 number 4037 on the preparation of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 and the medium-term outlook for 2016 and 2017 directly imposed on the Minister of Industry and Trade an amendment to Decree No. 486/2008 Coll., which sets out the professional activities related to ensuring the issuance and proper distribution of Czech technical standards and the remuneration for their provision, in order to adjust the fees and access to technical standards of the ČSN with an effective date as of 1 January 2015. I have no doubt that knowledge and compliance with standards is essential for the Czech industry and increases the competitiveness of our economy. However, the draft decree is designed in such a way as to avoid a severe disruption of the established system of sales of standards, so that access remains user-friendly, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. I must decline the thesis that this office is some kind of money machine. It's still a profit of about 38 miles. CZK annually and technical standards are one of the cheapest standards in the European Union at all. What the draft decree specifically contains is a reduction in the period of access to reading technical standards from one year to six months at the current price of CZK 1000 and the abolition of unlimited printing of technical standards, the introduction of a limit of 1000 pages for CZK 3,500. At the same time, the draft decree newly introduces the possibility of purchasing other parties after the limit has been exhausted, without the need to renew and pay access to the database as such. In other words, support for small and medium-sized enterprises is maintained, but not support for trade in printed technical standards. The main objective of this change in the field of technical standards is to ensure higher revenue from the sale of standards while maintaining the environment and the system, which is well known to users of technical standards. At the same time, it is an effort to set up a long-term sustainable change that will affect as little as possible each of the customers, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We also promise from the proposed price decree to limit the illegal spread of technical standards in the Czech Republic. The available statistics show that unlimited printing of technical standards is used by users of technical standards not only in accordance with the legislation, but gives wide scope for the illegal distribution of such printed technical standards. The restriction of printing to a thousand pages for an amount of 3,500 to six months is thus designed to prevent unlimited printing from being abused for the illegal dissemination of printed technical standards. The amendment will probably result in an increase in administrative costs for some users, but it can be considered an acceptable compromise in relation to the Ministry of Finance's requirements. Finally, I would like to point out here that technical standards are the cheapest in the Czech Republic within the EU and this will remain so even after the adoption of the decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u121	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u122	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no doubt that these standards may be the cheapest in the European Union, but what is important is that the Office's activities develop in some way, that people are motivated there. And we also need to think about whether what the Minister of Říman has done is right. Whether this office is to be a state or a publicly beneficial company and whether the money that is the income of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which, as I was informed, had to increase its own revenue to stabilise the state budget, if this is the right thing to do with the office. That is why I recommend that you actually talk to the people who work in the Bureau for a long time and ask them how the office worked until it was nationalized, and since then. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I think that's probably the point. And I do not think that expensive is the best way to help the Czech economy, especially at the moment when we need its greatest growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u123	I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u124	I'll be very brief. Dear Member, the functioning of the Office and the change in legal form is something that I have a dialogue with the Office's representatives and, of course, I am open to various solutions. But it has a free relationship to the decree that was originally interpelled. I'd just like to point out that the pressure was originally higher in order. We were wondering if there was any space, and we came to the conclusion that there was some space. We believe that the intention of the legislators was to give the firms standards cheaply, but not to make it an object of trade. And that will be limited by this. So we think that this will not significantly disrupt the business environment. Basically, every company, the small and medium, gets them on the same terms as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u125	I thank the Minister for his reply. Mrs Putnová will speak with the next interview. He's going to intersect Minister Chládek, who I don't see here. So I assume you're reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u126	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I usually prefer a face-to-face dialogue, but since my question cannot be delayed, I will be satisfied, Minister Chládek, with an exceptionally written answer this time. My question is focused on future increases in teacher salaries in regional education. This is more than 2 billion. and I would like a clear answer from you whether these funds will be earmarked through the development programme, as you did this year, and only for teachers and non-teachers in public education, I warn - contrary to the law. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u127	I thank the lady. Mr Vácha will speak with the next interview and will interpel the Minister Bělobrádek, who I do not see here either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u128	We can't see either. Madam President, yesterday I saw the Vice-President of the Government come and go during the state budget discussion. I don't know if he heard my speech to evaluate science and finance science. Maybe he can read it before answering my questions. However, my questions are: Vice-President, why will it go to science in 2015 from the state budget less, although the international audit recommends an increase in funds by 2020 to 1% of GDP and the same objective is declared in the Government's Europe 2020 strategy in Government Resolution No. 434 of 7 June 2010? Yesterday, during his final speech to the state budget, the Minister of Finance announced that all ministers were satisfied with their budgets. [[Vice-President Babiš from the government bench off the microphone: They were excited.]] Now he's confirmed it to me. They were thrilled. Minister, were you satisfied with the declining budget for science, research and innovation in the Czech Republic? Since, of course, the evaluation is related to funding and funding with evaluation, I would like to ask what condition is the preparation of the evaluation of research organisations according to which the state budget for 2016 should be prepared. I ask because there was no selection of the contractor to calculate the evaluation. So when will this contractor be selected? Please exact and binding date. If the calculation contractor is not selected, you will have to propose expenditure on science to the state budget in violation of the laws of the Czech Republic, just as this year. Why did your administration fail to comply with Act 130/2002 when preparing the State Science Budget for 2015? I've learned that on Friday - [[The President with an apology draws attention to the time.]] Okay, thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u129	Thank you, too. Another interviewer is Mr Luzar and will interpel the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u130	Madam President, Minister, members of the Government. Minister, you are a successful businessman and I dare say that you own a lot of companies that meet the characteristics of dominance on the Czech market. I'm interested in your opinion, or rather the opinion of your economic directors, as they look at the maturity of the invoices. It is quite common in the Czech Republic that large dominant companies have shifted the maturity of invoices to 120 to 160 days. Of course, such a maturity helps them greatly economically, because they count invoices on the date of receipt of documents, but they claim credit from the State, if any. tax returns, but they don't pay on their own for up to 120 to 160 days. So, of course, instead of taking the bank's financial loan and having cash from the bank for interest, they draw it from their subcontractors, usually small companies, usually businessmen who do various jobs for them, and for them their process is quite significantly liquidation. Personally, I think this practice is very inappropriate for a 21st-century society. However, I fear that solving this simply by law, that we would set out, as with the state institutions or municipal authorities, some maturity of 30 days in the framework of free contractual relations, would be quite a significant problem. Therefore, I would suggest to you to consider the possibility that the State would accept against large companies or, in general, against companies the possibility of entitlement to a refund, or possibly. VAT netting only after the actual payment of such an invoice, and not as today after receipt of documents, when those firms may claim it, or if so. receiving services and goods of course. So if it could not be done in such a way that, after the actual payment of the invoice, the company could, in turn, claim or claim the funds. Personally, I consider this practice to be bad. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u131	I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I read our experts' opinion from the Ministry, I... I'm sure I understand. I understand you well. As far as I know, this limit, or the prescription of payment terms, is in retail, where the regulatory 30 days are agreed, and you could say it helped. However, the State cannot actually address and substitute the obligations of market participants here. It's a similar situation to the state's proposal to pay child support. Here's the trial. The courts will sentence someone to pay child support. And now there was a suggestion that we, as a state, pay the alimony first and then raise the money. This is, of course, a completely different motivation, and the state in terms of functioning is much worse off than a company that doesn't have the money. Otherwise, it's a good case if you're late. The worst thing is when it is not paid at all that the tax is paid and then there are some mechanisms in the insolvency proceedings where there is such an exception that the company that lost money can apply it in some regime that is provided for by law. So the tax law cannot interfere with the determination of the maturity of invoices, for example. maximum maturity. This is possible in the possibilities of other laws, e.g. a proposal for amendments to existing laws that are not in the Ministry of Finance. [[17,00 hours]] From the point of view of VAT, the VAT Directive, this is Directive 2006/112/EU, allows for the introduction for VAT purposes of a so-called cash accounting scheme for selected entities. This scheme differs from the standard scheme by allowing the taxable supply provider to grant VAT on its actual transactions, i.e. the supply of goods or services only at the time of payment of this tax from the recipient of the transactions. At the same time, however, this provider is entitled to deduct input VAT for its received transactions only at the time of their reimbursement. The VAT Directive sets the conditions for the application of the cash accounting regime, with the fact that this scheme cannot be applied to all payers automatically, but only for a defined circle of payers. The amount of turnover is chosen as a criterion. The cash accounting regime can only be applied to a payer with a turnover of less than EUR 500 000 or equivalent in national currency, which may be increased up to EUR 2 million after consultation of the VAT Committee. However, by analysing possible risks, it was found that the introduction of the cash accounting regime entails an increased possibility of tax evasion, in particular in carrying out transactions to non-beneficiaries, or to payers who are not entitled to deduction. There is a possibility that there will be no formal repayment of the claim and thus the VAT will not be granted and paid by the supplier. Another negative impact of the introduction of the cash accounting regime is high administrative demands on business accounting and accounting software, as it is necessary to distinguish between classic tax documents and documents with shifted tax liability in accounting procedures and accounting software. No negative impact on income tax can be excluded either. The introduction of the special scheme is also not in line with the general trend of abolishing exemptions in tax legislation and reducing the administrative burden on tax entities. It would lead to an increase. For this impact in outstanding claims, a system of refunding the tax not paid by a trading partner is already in place, currently relating to claims on persons in insolvency proceedings. I've already mentioned that. So the Treasury is definitely open to discussing the extension of this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u133	Thank you. I see that the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u134	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Perhaps it would be good for you to give your officials who have prepared this answer your suggestions for your ideas that you want to introduce. They are good and solve all the problems they say that that's why it can't be done - electronization, registration and so on, which you want to enforce in the VAT collection model. This would be solved very easily - the maturity of the invoices, when he got it, how it could be paid out. When it comes to a comparison with alimony or alimony, it's exactly the same. The state behaves against entrepreneurs exactly as it should behave perhaps towards children, because he allows entrepreneurs to obtain VAT now or within a month if they are monthly payers, but they have paid, physically spent money up to 120, 160 days, three months, four months, or the state finances them forward. It allows them to make money off of it. That is why the financial directors of large companies, which have a monopoly and are strong on the market, are taking advantage of this and doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u135	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u136	I agree with you. It's for debate, it's a question of dominance by sector. I know it's probably happening in construction, but at least in the business I've been doing, there's definitely no payment condition for 120 days, but the standard is 30, 60 days tops. We can talk about this. I was talking about retail, that's where it helped. Although, of course, on the other hand, the dominant market participants let those poor people eat it well in other things, in bonuses and so on, so they made them feel that there was another system and the obligation to pay within 30 days. Of course, I'm ready to discuss this with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u137	Thank you. Another interviewer is Mr Valenta, who will bring his intervention to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u138	Dear absent minister, can you explain to me why the Czech Republic has not joined the Memorandum of 13 European Union Member States to defend itself against a microbe called clostridy? These aggressive bacteria are very easy to spread, very poorly treated, and the sick have life-threatening problems, or die by exhaustion. The disease has caused an epidemic in many countries, for example, in the United Kingdom, six thousand infected persons died in one year. The social seriousness is also illustrated by the amount of annual pan-European costs, which amounts to EUR 3 billion. Dear Minister, I believe that there is a reason for a more fundamental action in the Czech Republic, especially when it can be said that there is no defence in our country, and even a simple monitoring of the number of such patients. Some doctors admit that the situation is even worse than in most European countries. The chief of microbiology in Motola Otakar Nyč claims that one of the reasons why the situation with clostridies in the Czech Republic is not addressed is the acute lack of single rooms. At the same time, he adds that he knows about cases where one department of the disease would rather sweep under the carpet than have to admit it and face the problem of isolating patients with clostrids to protect others at the same time. So I ask you not only the reason not to join the Czech Republic to the memorandum, but also the methodology of the Ministry of Health in solving this delicate problem and also the reason for the information vacuum. I draw attention not only to the lack of information to the public, but also to some untrustworthy data provided by hospitals and the Ministry. I could mention, for example, the number of reported hospital infectious diseases in the mentioned Motola, which is reported to be up to 2% of all patients. This figure is in a strangely sharp contrast with Tuesday's statement by the Austrian head of the Agency for Health and Food Safety, Franz Allerberger, who confirms 14 percent of such patients for his country. World's finest hospitals report 5%. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It should be clear that the wrong approach to systemic treatment also depends on bad statistics, and therefore I strongly recommend that reporting shortcomings be dealt with intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u139	Thank you. I'll ask the others who will perform with the interpelations to really follow the time limit. Thank you. The next interviewer is Mrs Semelová, who will interpel the Minister of Education Chládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u140	Thank you. Dear Minister, my interpelation concerns the Faculty of Social Studies in Vsetín, which was established as a new Faculty of Private School Humanitas by the resolution of the Polish Accreditation Commission dated 12. 9. 2013 and Decision of the Polish Minister for Science and Education of 28. 2. 2014. The residence of this university is the city of Sosnowiec in Poland. The Faculty of Social Studies provides studies in study programmes accredited abroad, namely culinary studies in the bachelor programme. According to my information, the accreditation of this field was not granted by the Accreditation Commission of the Czech Republic. It is a second attempt to study this field in the form of higher education. For the first time in Liberec, where he was taught at the Faculty of Architecture, he did not receive accreditation, therefore he was no longer a teacher. In the end, Polish university was obtained for teaching. I'm not sure, but it's possible that the procedure is legally possible. However, I see the problem that the number of private schools is increasing and their graduates do not find adequate application. I would therefore like to ask whether you consider it appropriate for the Czech Accreditation Commission to do so, which has reasonably considered the situation, the need for the industry, its security, social security and conditions at all in the given place, and how it is with the recognition of such education when our Accreditation Commission does not grant the accreditation of the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u141	Thank you. Mr Zahradník will perform with further interpellation and will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u142	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the preparation of a proposal for a new operational programme for the Environment. In the sixth version of the upcoming document, in the investment priority three, in the priority axis three, the specific objective five to reduce environmental risks and develop their management system, the following types of supported projects are proposed, inter alia: reconstruction of hazardous chemicals production equipment; reconstruction of cooling equipment; fire insulation of LPG storage tanks; construction of safe extraction of input raw materials and new products; reconstruction of warehouses of flammable liquids; reconstruction of storage tanks of liquid hydrocarbons; reconstruction of liquid industrial fertiliser warehouses; the construction of the security of agrochemicals warehouses. The potential beneficiaries include, for example, regions and municipalities, state enterprises and also business entities. We are aware that you have come to the post of Minister of the Environment from the position of director of a large chemical enterprise belonging to the Agrofert Group. This indicates another possible conflict of interests between the Minister of Finance, the Chairman of the ANO movement and the owner of the Agrofert Andrej Babiš Group. Dear Minister, what is the reason why these types of projects will be supported when the operator and the owner of the company are responsible for the safety of production and the safety of the handling of its products? Can you exclude a conflict of interest consisting in the possibility that any company from Agrofert Group may be the potential applicant and, where appropriate, the beneficiary of the subsidy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u143	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Member, thank you for asking. I want to assure you of two things. Firstly, the specific objective five, priority axis number three, from which you quoted, was already in the previous operational programme 2007-2013. It appeared in the 2014-2020 programme, which was prepared by our predecessors under Rusnokův's government. We've only modified a few of these things. This means that in all those priority axes appeared apart from, of course, municipalities, associations, regions and business persons. About your concern, which, believe me, I would normally share if it was based on the truth, but I will vote it out in two ways. One. You are absolutely right that, of course, entrepreneurs, operators of those facilities, have a responsibility, and they also guarantee not only some kind of insurance policy, but also their investment resources for meeting the relevant standards. But what is funded by the Operational Programme Environment is an improvement or reduction in industrial pollution that goes beyond these standards. This means that if the entrepreneur complies with the relevant standard of both the Czech Republic and the European Commission, then, of course, he will not receive any subsidy to comply with his own standards. He'll get the grant except if he commits to reducing emissions beyond the existing standards, which I think is correct. I would like to assure you - and you are a member, if I am not mistaken, certainly of the Management Committee, because we meet there, the State Environmental Fund - so I want to assure you that I really do not see the conflict of interest there, because the influence - the possibility of influence on my part, or even on the part of the Minister of Finance, is really close to zero, from the bottom. There is such a sophisticated system, and I would like to stress that we are not ROP Northwest or other ROPs where it may have been influenced, but there is a monitoring committee composed of dozens of people from all areas, from several different ministries, regions, municipalities, various associations. I will paraphrase there freely, or I will allow myself to use the bonmot of my colleague Kalousek - there is really no more than that fishing guard in that group of monitoring committee. There are indeed many people, NGOs. All together, the monitoring committee gives criteria for project evaluation, and then specific projects are evaluated by independent experts, and then they are re-approved by the Steering Committee, where representatives of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, other ministries are. So the possibility of someone sticking their project in there and trying to influence it is really close to zero. Because those criteria are completely objective. She's not subjective - like-like, my-alien, but just whether she meets any specific standards, some specific reduction. So I really don't see the conflict of interest there, however I know I'll always be - I'm counting on it, after all, I think it's completely transparent that someone will always see that if I was the CEO of Lovochemie, there are some indications. But let me make a point at this point that, as far as I know, Lovochemie was a successful applicant from European funds at a time when I had no idea that I could ever become an environmental minister, and some of Agrofert's companies were also successful applicants. And I'm sure the Minister of Finance had no idea that he wouldn't even think in his worst dreams that he'd become the Minister of Finance. And it was really because the projects were good and that they were well prepared, that they were objective. I can say that on a specific project by Lovochemie from some year 2007, 2008. I think it's very difficult or impossible to find a conflict of interest here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u145	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u146	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have not distracted any of my concerns here, so you have confirmed them, because I do not know what civil association, voluntary union of municipalities, association could build a secure warehouse of agrochemicals or build a reconstruction of a warehouse of flammable liquids. That's weird. Of course, all this business stuff here... There's a different situation than I was, I don't know how many years ago that you mentioned, because now there's the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš and the Environment Minister, you, the group's representatives. So there's definitely a conflict of interest. Do you think that these measures, these priorities, are more important than the introduction of public transport on alternative propulsion or public lighting subsidies in municipalities - which you have thrown out of these proposals? Striked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u147	Thank you. I beg the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u148	You know, Mr. Ambassador, it's always terribly relative, because those areas that could be drawn from to improve the environment are really dozens, and it's not possible to cover everything. I don't think I can explain the conflict of interest, that's what everyone will always think. I believe that there is nothing more beautiful when everyone knows that I was previously CEO of Lovochemie, and I am in a hundred times more media and everyone's viewfinder and it is completely transparent than the Dalík and other systems that have been used before. So I think everyone can look at me and everyone can hunt on my resume. I think it's very transparent. About what you said. For example, we are actually - even from the sources of the State Environmental Fund and from the previous programme invested quite a lot in some renewable sources. On the other hand, this project and these priorities have also been evaluated by the European Commission in terms of specific objectives. I would like to emphasise that. This is not about the Czech Republic making something up and automatically agreeing to it. The European Commission has returned a number of specific objectives and areas to us because they just did not seem adequate in terms of the effects. So what you're seeing here today is just a program that, as you mentioned correctly in the sixth version, has gone through a lot of discussions with the experts of the European Commission, and some of the targets have been crossed out by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u149	Thank you. Mr Šarapatka, who will intersect the absent Minister of Foreign Affairs, will now speak with the next interview. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u150	Good evening, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I confess that it is such a strange situation for me to talk to the invisible and absent minister, but I will nevertheless try. The UN General Assembly recently approved a resolution calling on all countries of the world to take more effective measures to combat the heroisation of Nazism and other forms of racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance. 115 from 193 Member States voted in favour of this document this year. [[17.20 hours]] Canada, the United States and Ukraine voted against and 55 other delegations, including the countries of the European Union, abstained. The final discussion of the resolution will take place in the middle of December this year. This resolution condemning Nazism has been approved since 2004 by a majority of UN members. Last year, for example. have made 128 Member States. Of course, Ukraine was not surprised. Representatives of the true sector are open Nazis, supporters of Hitler's ideology. But it is incomprehensible that a country whose people have tried all the horrors of Nazism and have contributed greatly to a common victory over it has voted against a document condemning its heroization. The text of this resolution is free online. He condemns me. attempts to deny the Holocaust and calls for universal ratification and effective application of the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u151	Mr. Ambassador, your time. I'm sorry, two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u152	I see. I would just like to finish by saying that the vote was directed directly by Minister Zaorálek. I'm asking him why this happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u153	Thank you. Mr. Pojezný will perform with further interpellation. He will intersect the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u154	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm gonna make an exception this time, wait another week for the Minister to be present, and that's why I'm downloading my interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u155	Yes, thank you, therefore, next in line, Mr Fiedler, who comes with an interview with the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u156	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good evening, Minister, I would like to make this question. Citizens of Vrbětic-Vlachovic will contact us, make phone calls, write e-mails, I know it has been said today about transporting ammunition from Vrbětic-Vlachovic. In today's speech by Prime Minister Sobotka, it was said that nothing had been ventured so far, and citizens registered trucks leaving the warehouse, accompanied by police cars, an ambulance. He's making a question about what's going on. They asked us to do this question, so what dares they do. I ask, in particular, that it has been said by Prime Minister Sobotka today that no transports have yet been carried out. So if you can answer this, if something dared, what it was, and because it was around the time of yesterday's explosion, that's why the citizens are asking these questions and they want to. It simply corresponds to the fact that the information they receive is contradictory, and as the TV show said last night, they don't have it, they complain. Then I'd like to ask you for this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u157	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response. Before the Minister comes to the microphone, please, a little to the right to keep his voice down. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I may not be able to define exactly what took place on Day D from the premises. All I know is that some explosives were moving off this premises to safely dispose of them outside the premises. The Prime Minister was right about the fact that so far no ammunition has been carried out, which is still in stock, and only some of the ammunition that could not be disposed of on the spot - if I remember correctly, the police president said that about 120 pieces of this dangerous ammunition were taken off the premises for disposal, i.e. some pits for safe disposal of ammunition are built in Vrbětice, because even in Vrbětice some pits for safe disposal of ammunition are built, but 120 pieces needed to be removed outside. It's possible it was this, I'll check with the police president, specify the extent of the day before the second detonation, the second explosion, and the day of the explosion, so I know exactly what happened there, and I'll give you detailed information. The only thing that took off there is the technical equipment of the bomb squad and 120 ammunition that could not be disposed of on site. The latest information I have from Vrbětice: tomorrow at 14:00 should decide whether citizens will return to their homes. The police are working with the self-government, I have spoken with both the mayor and the mayor of the two communities that are being evacuated, we are in contact with any further assistance, and I assume that we will be discussing this topic and the topic of the future of ammunition removals from this area on Saturday at the Security Council Bureau, which will be held directly in these municipalities or in the municipalities affected by explosions from recent days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u159	Thank you and ask whether there is an interest in the supplementary question? It's not like that. I ask another in the order of Mr Kučera, who will also interpel the Minister of the Interior. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u160	Thank you for the floor, I hope the Home Secretary will see me. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the situation at the offices of the Czech Post in the Ústecký Region, especially to the poor organization of the work of the Czech Post, where there are hourly queues at the branch offices for one window, where people are waiting in the same endless queue for social benefits, for deliveries not delivered or for sending a recommended letter. This applies not only to the post office in the district town of Louny, but also to other cities in the Ústí Region, especially to the post office in our regional town of Ústí nad Labem, but also to Lovosice, Teplice and other cities. Branches are not enough to provide a level of service and often offer a relatively undignified environment for waiting clients. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to a specific and very typical problem. For all the cities I would mention for example. the town of Louna. The capacity of the Czech Post was reduced in Louny, the whole floor was closed, the reconstruction was supposed to take place, but it is not yet in progress. The level of service provision and, above all, their availability is very limited. The branch has a very bad attitude for people with disabilities. And here is an example, but there is a similar situation in other cities in the Ústí Region. I would therefore like to know when and what measures you will take specifically to improve the situation described with me. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u161	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start from the back of your interpellation and this is a branch in Louny. In Louny there was no capacity reduction, one specialized branch on the first floor was closed, which was moved to the lower floor. It was a special partition for financial services, i.e. there was no capacity reduction, but to be moved to the bottom floor. As far as this post is concerned, the project for its reconstruction is currently being finalized and the project preparation process is now being completed on the basis of additional hygiene requirements. We expect a standard tender for the supply of construction works for this branch to be issued in 2015. In general, as regards the situation at the post office. Of course, I know about the condition, which is that the condition is not ideal, and I am forcing the management of the Czech Post to change. It should currently prepare a concept that should be submitted during 2015, in its beginning, in January, in February, the management of the Czech Post for decision. This system should be a new system of calling for Czech Post clients, i.e. It should simplify the waiting time, shorten the waiting time. This system is de facto tested at post offices in Europe and should mean improving the quality of services for citizens. As far as other services are concerned, I will be very happy, and the management of the Czech Post is very well aware that they will come up with a change in the concept of operation during the first quarter of next year, even after opening times. For Czech Post to be open at the time when citizens are at home, i.e. in the evening and afternoon, so that the Czech Post can also open on the weekend, so that the Czech Post begins to adapt to clients. This means that it does not sin a little bit on the fact that it has a stronger monopoly in some areas. [[17.30 hours]] This assignment of the management of the Czech Post has and those gradual steps, whether it be outsourcing branches, the search for partners - currently we still have 0.4 % of branches outsourced, German Post 100 %. The ideal we are aiming at is partners in small branches, improving the situation, but we lack funds to improve the situation. Czech Post used to have about 5 billion in its accounts. Kroner, her financial background is down to half the amount, and she needs money for these reconstructions. This means we are looking for a comprehensive concept of financing of the Czech Post. We have prepared a new law to address the financing of the Czech Post. This law should be discussed next year in the Chamber of Deputies. The point is that Czech Post should be paid from the Czech state for services which it does for the Czech state in the public interest and which are loss-making. If we do not go through the financing of the Czech Post in this way, the state enterprise will gradually fade away and will not be able to cover profit-making activities that are not profitable, i.e. loss-making branches. I'm aware of what you're talking about. Unfortunately, it is not only the Ústí Region but all regions in the Czech Republic. Somewhere we see modern beautiful branches of Czech Post, where services have improved significantly. Unfortunately, there are still few such branches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u163	Thank you. I see that the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u164	Thank you. Very briefly. Perhaps an improved job organization would find resources inside the post office, that's my first point. Second point. Of course, you are wrong about the post in Louny, because the capacity of the financial bulkheads has shifted to the already existing letter counters, which means one floor has moved to the other to the existing bulkheads. You know, I just need a simple answer. You were talking about reorganizing the Czech Post. I agree with that. I'm fine with the de facto answer in time. When the deadline is when the reorganisation will be completed and when everything will work as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u165	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u166	According to my information, my colleague, five counters on the bottom floor are still in operation in the Louny Post Office, plus two specialised financial services, thus there was no reduction in capacity from this point of view. Of course, it's gotten to one floor space, you're right about that, but the bulkheads are open five plus two. That's the information from today. Straight from the Czech Post in Louny. If that's not true, I'll verify the information, and if it's not true, I'll have to apologize to you next time, but here's what's written in my background. As for the term, this is a simple question with a complicated answer. The post office had no assignment from the state over the past five years on the route. At present, we have developed a concept. I have sent the concept to all Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, and we are continuing as part of the concept. Of course, money is needed to reorganize the Czech Post. If you think there are significant savings in the Czech Post, I just want to say that almost 60 percent of the costs of the Czech Post are wages, and now collective negotiations between the management of the Czech Post and the trade unions are ending. The unions in the last five years, or the employees of the Czech Post in the last five years, if I am not mistaken, have not been raised at all. That means we've increased the salary of all civil servants by 3.5%. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u167	I'll ask my colleagues not to scream out of the diaper and let the minister finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u168	If we consider employees of the Czech Post and we consider them to be civil servants, there is a legitimate demand for an increase in salaries somewhere in the range of around 3,5 percent. I don't know the definitive agreement between the trade unions and the employees of the Czech Post, but I'm assuming there's a deal coming up somewhere. One percent of the addition of wages to the Czech Post is, Mr. MP, 100 miles. CZK, so it's 350 miles. Crowns. Czech Post no longer achieves profit of this extent at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u169	Minister, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u170	Thank you. The term is fulfilled exactly according to how we presented the concept to you, and I am ready to discuss it with you outside this counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u171	I would like to see the microphone of another interviewer, which is Mr Kalousek. She will turn with her intervention to the Minister of Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u172	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary, in the part of the Prime Minister's intervention, the Prime Minister has confirmed to me that operational programmes with the European Commission for the financial period 2014 to 2020 have not yet been and will not be undermined. Compared to 2007, because there is no other comparison, it is a significant delay and does not correspond to the declared priorities of the Czech government. However, it is not the only thing where the government contradicts itself in its declared priorities. I beg an answer the Prime Minister couldn't give me. I understand that he didn't have the information, but since it is an issue that concerns you immediately, you have it in your competence, so please specify the deadline when you believe and promise the Czech public through the House that the programs will be negated. Of course, I don't require a date, less than an hour, just a quarter. One, two, three, four. In theory, I'll settle for spring, summer, autumn, winter, as you see fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u173	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u174	Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for this question. I'll answer everything you asked, Mr. Ambassador. One thing is that programmes with the European Commission have not yet been undermined. I would first say why in the course of my five minutes, because those reasons must also be mentioned for our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u175	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but it goes from the right, it goes from the left. Gentlemen, if you have something to say to yourself, do so in the foyer, because we are robbing Mr Kalousek of his answer, which he is waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u176	There are several reasons why this 2014-2020 programming period is more complex. For one thing, the European Commission is much stricter, and I can basically say my personal impression that it is sitting on the Czech Republic because of how inappropriately we drew money in the period 2007-2013. She's very strict with us. There are more stringent EU regulations, and they want us to practically say words. We do not resist this, but communication with the Commission is quite demanding. At the same time, I would like to mention one thing. You mentioned it in the interview with the Prime Minister now. I would like to say that in the 2007-2013 programming period the programmes were approved about 18 months after the EU regulation came out. Now I expect it, too. So I answer you with this: given that the regulations came out in December 2013, our estimate is as a Ministry of Regional Development, and given what the negotiation of the programmes looks like, the second quarter of next year, that all programmes could be approved. I would still like to use perhaps a minute of this time to tell you when we expect the programmes to be sent to the Commission. We expect all programmes to be moved to the Commission by January. As the Prime Minister said, the exception may be the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, where officials from regional council offices are being dealt with. I've given the Governor an offer to take 300 people to the Ministry of Regional Development, but the process is process-intensive and is not yet fully negotiated. If that's enough for you, maybe I can answer more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u177	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? It's not like that. So I'll invite him in the next order. Mr Ondráček will give his intervention and will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u178	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, member of government, colleagues, colleagues, I have recently been approached by several fellow citizens with a question of exorcism in the Czech Republic. This is a recently published video from the church in Vranov nad Dyjí, where a priest and a group of adults perform a religious ritual of exorcising the devil on a woman. This woman screams loudly at this ceremony and screams very vulgarly. This suggests that the woman in question suffered during this ritual. I thought, probably like the vast majority of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic, that these and other similar rituals were used by the Church in times long past and that they were no longer practiced in the 21st century. I guess I was wrong. And maybe in time we'll see the release of the confession of witch trials. For me, as well as for a number of fellow citizens, it is most striking that at least two children are present in the published video. Yes, you can hear me well. Two underage children were present at the church's exorcism ritual. Since churches and religious societies are registered with us under the Ministry of Culture, I am addressing you, Minister, with these questions: How is it possible that children participate in such a ceremony and do you not consider their participation as a possible disruption of development? Does the Ministry of Culture know how many exorcisms are performed by churches on our fellow citizens each year? And do you personally, as Minister of Culture, approve such church ceremonies for the right, necessary, and in accordance with what the churches are established for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u179	I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no further information on this particular case that you have just referred to. As far as the exorcism institution is concerned, if, based on my theological studies, I am able to remember it, it is to rid a man of the influence of evil forces. This process lies primarily in prayer over such a person, but it is a wide range of possibilities for such a thing to take place. Of course, if there is any suspicion, perhaps, of disrupting the education of young people or of such things, then the initiative must be given. At this point, the Ministry of Culture has not received any initiative of this type, nor have I been corrected for anybody to file a criminal complaint where this matter would be dealt with. As regards the registration of churches and religious societies, in the Czech Republic there are about 25 registered churches and religious societies, some of which are so-called institutes. They know the exorcism, and if they practice it, it's their internal business. So far, I repeat, no proceedings have been introduced to this institute, virtually. some kind of abuse he might have had involved. If you have, say, a specific initiative from the citizens, as you mentioned, I will certainly be happy to take it from you, and if it is within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, then of course we will be dealing with such a matter. It hasn't happened until now. No such complaint has been lodged.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u181	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u182	Thank you again. You haven't answered almost anything I've asked about your personal opinions. You explained to me what exorcism is. I knew that, but so be it. I'd be happy to give you an incentive. I'll give you a video link so you can deal with it. I was wondering if I could file a criminal report myself. I'll see you again. I'll re-examine it. I would just like to remind you that tomorrow at this time we will have many small and large devils running around the Czech Republic, so that the churches are prepared for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u183	Thank you and please the Minister. Do you want the Minister's response, Mr. Ambassador? [[He doesn't want to.]] You don't want to. Okay. Thank you. Now, please, another interviewer, Mr Plíšek, who will interpel Mrs Válková. ministryně Válková. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u184	Madam Vice-President, Members of Parliament, I originally wanted to interpel the Minister of Válková on her personnel policy, when we learned this week that the third Deputy Director of the Ministry of Four Deputys has been removed from her original report and there are frequent personnel changes and turbulence in the Ministry. I wanted to ask why. But since the Secretary of State is duly excused today, I'll keep this interpellation for next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u185	Thank you. The next interviewer is Mr Zlatuška, who will intersect the absent Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u186	Thank you. One of the central concepts of making the results of public-funded science available is that of making them available in the so-called regime. open access, open access. In civilised countries, it becomes a fundamental requirement for the dissemination of the scientific knowledge obtained, whereby the funding agencies lay down directly as an obligation for beneficiaries of subsidies, albeit partial, to make publications available as well as all underlying data in so-called. deposits or repositories. This condition will also be included in the conditions for financing projects under the Horizon 2020 European Programme. After attending the open access seminar in November 2013 in Great Britain, a working group was established at the Office of the Government under the direction of profesor Haňka, previously a consultant for the science of the Prime Minister and until recently a member of the Research, Development and Innovation Council. In March, the Research, Development and Innovation Council adopted an open access recommendation which, however, has no real impact. The work of codifying the storage of accompanying documents in the storage of grey literature in the National Technical Library has stopped and the requirement to make the results available is not applied. From the point of view of publications, the situation is relatively simple and managed in the world. Today, access to background data is being addressed rather than the issue of publications as such. Private foundations, such as the British Wellcome Fund, have also set a condition in the past week, including Bill a Gatesův Gates. In this respect, we are moving towards third world countries with privatized funding for science. Question, I am happy to get a written answer: What is the state of the preparation of the national open approach policy and who is responsible for the current delays?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u187	Thank you. Another interviewer is Mr Nykl, who will also interpel the absent Minister of Education Chládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u188	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. Dear absent, Minister, on 12. 6. 2014 I have intersected you on the question of so-called. The National Sports Council, as your newly established advisory body for sport, where, at that time, thanks mainly to the activities of our Member, a member of this Council, Mr Holeček, there was a suspension of the payment of some investment items in sports worth approximately CZK 200 million, as it appeared that the payment of these subsidies might not be justified and fully defendable. My question then was how will the revision of these items actually take place? You said you'd have the 27 items checked out, and you pointed out that it doesn't mean that they wouldn't be granted funding, but before we give the funds, they'll be checked. I now learn from the media that in fact all these items outside of one grant, which was to go to Mr Hadamčík at the Bully Arena in Kravařích, have been approved. Perhaps there would be nothing special about this if it did not show that there was a problem, namely that no one actually had the written conclusions of these checks with a justification for why the subsidy was justified. And here's an example I want to ask you. Autoclub Czech Republic, Opletalova street, Prague, subsidy 6.6 million for repair of machinery room. As far as I know, the office has this car club in the building, but otherwise the building is successfully rented commercially and has nothing to do with its own sports. Question number one. Do you think that in this particular case it is the right use of investment subsidies for sport? Question number two. Is there a written justification for all the subsidies finally approved? Can we read them? Question number three. You, somewhere in the press, have referred to Mr Holeček's activities as some kind of his pursuit of visibility or self-representation. Even Mr Černošek, a prominent sportsman, said in the Hospodářské noviny that - thank you - is the first time in history when sports financing is the subject of political games. [[Time warning]] I think this is the first time that this is a transparent effort to finance sport. [[additional time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u189	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but we have to keep the time limit. And now I will ask another in the order of Mr Seda, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u190	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, because I know you're in a hurry, I'll be very quick. Some of the information's already gone down here. Despite ensuring the public that security is secured after the first explosion of the ammunition warehouse, it turns out that this is not the case. The necessary evacuation of residents of Haluzic and Lipová after the explosion of another Imex Group ammunition warehouse seems to indicate greater problems with ensuring the safety of ammunition warehouses. According to experts, if declared ammunition was stored in this ammunition warehouse, this ammunition could not have exploded spontaneously. Experts do not believe in spontaneous combustion or in direct connection with the first explosion. There are fears that this is a human factor. The second problem is to break up information provided by state authorities. That's why I wanted to ask you two questions. First thing. Minister, could you provide relevant information to these citizens, I don't mean right now, but in the course of tomorrow, so that not only the inhabitants of the vicinity of the willow area are properly informed? And I would also like assurances from you, and you can do that here, that actually the residents who have been evacuated have the support of the state and the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u191	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few more supplements. Those experts who talk about the possible cause of the explosion weren't there, and they're just assessing de facto the facts that are known from the media. The investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic is under the supervision of the State Attorney who conducts this investigation under the "reserved" regime, which means that information cannot be provided to the police without agreement with the State Attorney. I have asked the police to ask the prosecutor if it is possible to release some information from the investigation so that we can do so, because at least part of the direction of the investigation needs to be declassified by the public. If possible and if it doesn't harm your own investigation. That's the thing we did. Of course, my dear colleague, the variation of human guilt, or even the intention, is one of the versions under investigation, it certainly is. It's the first case, it's the second case. This option cannot be ignored. And the information that was breaking up. Well, we provided the first information yesterday after telemosto, who was with Mr. Captain Mišák, who was with the commander of the intervention and who was with other colleagues from the scene. This was the first relevant information after the press conference. And in the morning I received information from the police president that patrols of the Police of the Czech Republic had detected an explosion from the area of the original epicenter. That means the patrol reported from two locations that the blast was the original epicenter. This information was given to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, whom he said here yesterday. The Prime Minister was equipped with information from me, I was equipped with information from the police. We have today provided a comprehensive press release on how time went on in the willow case so that citizens would know how information gradually developed. The problem was that there were no flight conditions to be able to find out if another building actually blew up. I spoke to the Mayor of the Újezd this morning, who clearly told me that something other than the original epicenter had exploded, but the police were unable to detect this before 16 p.m. when the helicopter of the Army of the Czech Republic de facto on the perimeter of the area was raised and saw another building burning there. I asked my colleague Stropnický today, and I will also ask him within the Security Council Bureau of the State, to keep the drone that has been withdrawn in place until all the ammunition has been taken away, because there is a need for a technical device that is able to find out what is going on over the vast area at night and day-to-day. As for the citizens who have been evacuated. I de facto stopped the debate yesterday about the fact that the evacuations should be accommodated in gymnasiums, and we arranged accommodations that I think these people need for the short term, accommodations at 21st century level. We provided them with accommodation capacity at the Ministry of Interior facility in Luhačovice. It's at the Hubert Hotel. This means that those who asked for the evacuation that was done at the cost of the state are accommodated there free of charge, are provided with free services. They could use the services of the Czech state. He took advantage of a very small number of evacuated people, of the 430 people. If I have the last piece of information right, it's more than 20 people, it's not a big part. Everyone else found accommodations with their relatives and acquaintances. The good news and the light at the end of the tunnel is that the explosions are dropping. Tomorrow he should meet again at the scene of the crisis crew, meet with the commander of the intervention and decide at 2 p.m. again how long the evacuation will take. I firmly believe that tomorrow at 14 o'clock it will be possible to let citizens into their homes. Otherwise, citizens who have legitimate requests for entry into this area are granted them. We're aware they have pets there. We are aware that there is also an agricultural holding in the village cadastral, where there are 80 cows, so that people do not suffer from trauma, that they left pets or farm animals there, so very gently the police approach to getting these people and to getting domestic animals. So we approach it as carefully as possible, but in order to protect the lives of those people. Thank you for the question, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-021-135.u193	I, too, thank you and ask the honourable Member - he is not interested in an additional question. Since it's been 17.55 hours, which is the time limit to which you can load the last of the interpelations... I'll read two more apologies from today's meeting until I interrupt the meeting. From 16.30 pm, Mr Mihola apologizes for reasons of work, and from 15.30 to the end of the meeting, Mr Sedláček apologizes. So, at this point, I'm interrupting the House meeting by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Only Mr Hovorka - according to the Rules of Procedure, the last interview can be loaded at 17.55 hours. Thank you and have a good evening.
