ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-016-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. Since our ranks are thinner, I will ring the bell so that other Members and Members come to discuss the laws in question. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 16th meeting on 4 September 2014, an invitation was delivered to you through the MPs on the same day. I'm going to ask you all to sign up with ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd like to ask if anybody present has issued a replacement card. It's not like that, okay. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of František Laudát and Jiří Mihola. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. [[Unintelligible voices from the diaper.]] So I'll wait for the rest of the MPs to sign up. Can we go on now? Let's keep talking. I therefore propose that we designate Mr František Laudát and Mr Jiří Mihola as the verifier for the minutes of this meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I note that we have designated Mr František Laudát and Mr Jiří Mihola as verifiers of the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Unintelligible voices from the diaper.]] You're right. I shall begin the vote on verifiers as proposed. I ask who is in favour of this proposal by the verifiers.? Who's against it? It is a number one vote, Members of Parliament 98, for 93, against no one. I note that we have designated Mr František Laudát and Mr Jiří Mihola as verifiers of the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I confirm that the apologies for today's meeting are consistent with the apologies made at the 14th meeting. I have here a new note to apologize to Mr Chovanec for the meeting. I didn't get another note. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 16th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation, so I ask you, Madam and Members, whether you want to make any comments or additions to the proposal. No one's applying for a draft show. If that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. We will vote on the whole proposal for the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating this vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed program, let him press the button and raise his hand. It is voting number 2, the Members present are 120, for 116, no one opposed. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. [[13.20 hours]] Before we proceed to discuss the bills rejected and returned by the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow Senators and Senators Karel Korytář, Marta Bayerová, Jan Hajda, Jiří Šesták, Miloš Malý, Daniela Filipiová, Alena Gajdůškovášková, Petr Vícha, Petr Šilar and Jiří Bis to perform. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I'll start the vote. Who agrees with the appearance of appointed senators and senators? Initiating vote number three. I ask who is for the performance of the appointed senators and senators, press the button and raise your hand. I'm ending voting number three. Members present are 125, for 106, against 1. I note that this proposal has been approved. I'm opening a point now. That's what it is.
