ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u1	59. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, and Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended /German press 337/ - first reading I also ask here, under the authority of the Government, that the proposal put forward by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u2	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, this proposal is long awaited by the public. In practice, the current legislation is causing many difficulties. He was also highly mediated. I trust you'll approve it and proceed to second reading. The proposal submitted concerns two content circuits. First, it proposes to admit to a party who has not been represented by a lawyer in civil proceedings or, in certain cases, by a lawyer, a patent representative and does not provide a flat-rate reimbursement of such completed expenditure. Their specific amount will be determined in the case of approval by decree of the Ministry of Justice. To a certain extent, the compensation is expected to be similar to the flat-rate reimbursement of costs already provided to participants represented by the lawyer under the new legal tariff or the amended legal tariff. This is the first area of content of the proposed amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure. The second concerns the regulation of the enforcement of the judgment on property which is in the joint property of the spouses, in particular in the following respects: the court would be obliged, before the regulation of such enforcement, to determine whether it is in the list of instruments on the marital property regime - the Chamber of Notaries and with it, of course, this amendment point has been discussed - a contract or a decision on the marital property regime has been registered. Under applicable law, the court does not rely on the decision or order of enforcement of a marriage property document and the enforcement of a judgment on property which is not in the common property is suspended after the court decides on the exclusion action. So there is a need for an exclusion lawsuit involving such property. In order to enforce a judgment, the court should rely on a registered instrument in principle if it is to recover debts from the obligation arising after the entry of the instrument in the list of instruments. The entry of the document, it's important to "after," because that will depend on one or the other regime. The entry of the document in the list has the effect that registered documents may also be invoked by spouses against third parties, even if they have not been made aware of their contents. In other cases, the court will order the exercise of assets in the joint stock to the legal extent. If the enforcement of the decision is affected by property which is not in the common property, it will be necessary to submit a motion for termination of proceedings. In this case, it will no longer be necessary to bring an exclusion action before the application to close the proceedings. The execution of the decision and another amendment, or another amendment, is that the execution of the decision will be possible for a debt for which the assets in the joint assets can be penalized, to order a claim from the debtor's account at the monetary institution. [[There's noise in the O.R., restlessness.]] The execution of the decision in this way can be stopped even if there are no funds in the account that belong to the spouse's joint property. The debtor's spouse must have half of the funds in his account that were in his account at the time when the resolution on the enforcement order was delivered to the cash institution. At least it has to be twice the minimum of life. Similarly, the enforcement legislation on property in the joint property of spouses has been amended. I am sorry that I may have said some things too briefly, but I am also starting from the fact that all these changes have been pre-meditated enough, and we are more or less copying developments that have occurred both in the political plane and in the change of some other standards. For example, as I said, the bar fare. This is, as far as point 1 of the amendment is concerned, the flat-rate reimbursement of the final expenses of a participant who was not represented by an attorney or notary and so on. In this case, I ask you also to approve the draft of these amendments and to submit the amendment to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u3	I thank Minister Helena Válková and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, the proposed draft amendment to the laws was approved by the Government on 22 September with the amendments made to the comments contained in the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, which, of course, for a while, I suspect twice, has discussed this proposal. The proposal was forwarded to the Chamber of Deputies by the Government on 7 October of this year. As the Minister has already said, the proposal regulates two major thematic areas. The first is to pay the costs of a participant who was not represented in the proceedings by a lawyer -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u5	I'm sorry, colleague. I beg the Honourable House for peace. If it doesn't, I'll start naming known sinners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The first heading of the matter shall be to pay the costs of a party who has not been represented in the proceedings by a lawyer or notary. The second heading is the issue of enforcement and enforcement of property in the joint property of spouses and the commandment of the claim from the debtor's account. As regards the reimbursement of costs, the application shall make it possible to apply a flat-rate reimbursement of the expenditure completed even if the participant is not represented by a lawyer, a notary or a patent representative. Under the current legislation, the participant must provide evidence of the amount of the completed expenditure if it is not represented by a lawyer, a notary or a patent representative, while, in the case of representation, it could benefit from the flat-rate amount of the completed expenditure under the decree issuing the legal tariff. The proposal therefore improves the position of a participant who has not been represented in the proceedings by a lawyer, notary or patent representative. The same option would then apply in the case of enforcement proceedings. It is also amended at the same time by the Civil Procedure Code, so as to make it clear that to determine the amount of the representation fee, the said legal tariff issued by the relevant decree of the Ministry of Justice will apply. The second set of topics on which we have already received a number of comments as Members of the Constitutional Committee, and it will therefore be appropriate for us to discuss the proposal in committee within a proper period, is an adjustment to the enforcement of decisions on the joint property of spouses, which responds to changes in substantive regulation in the new Civil Code and also aims to respond to problems from application practice. Prior to the enforcement order, the court will be obliged to determine whether an instrument governing the compulsory property regime is registered in the list of instruments relating to the marital property regime. In particular, it means either a contract or a judicial decision and must be based on its content. Where an obligation arises after the entry of an instrument in the list of marriage documents, the arrangements under that instrument shall apply to third parties. The change in the scheme after the creation of the undertaking is ineffective against the creditor, but it can agree with it. It is also left to punish the claim on the debtor's account at the monetary institution in respect of the recovery of the debt belonging to the spouse's joint property, but the debtor's right to dispose of half the cash balance will be left to the spouse. On the contrary, it will no longer be possible to prosecute the spouse's salary or other claim of money, which undoubtedly leads to legal certainty for the spouse. The debtor's spouse has a new right to demand that the enforcement of the decision be terminated if the property in the spouse's joint property is penalized in the event that the law does not permit or does not allow him to do so to the extent that this is now dealt with by a not very flexible exclusion action. I think the proposed amendment responds to practical problems. There will certainly be various comments in the constitutional committee; there will probably be some amendments. As rapporteur, I propose to refer this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee for discussion within a proper period under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u7	I thank Mr Plíšek, who is the rapporteur for this press, and I am opening a general debate to which Mr Černoch is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased that the issue of executions is gradually starting to be addressed. It's a lot of problems I think a lot of people are worried about. There have already been several proposals. Some of them went well, some of them didn't. However, there are currently proposals coming in which, I think, in the execution order as such and at all the issue that it is, will bring about such a settlement, a comparison, when people who are executed or are in some way under the pressure of executioners will be able to obtain some rights. I think it is a topic that is very important, which this House has dealt with in this parliamentary term for the first time in a really systematic way after these long years. These are steps, suggestions, even if sometimes smaller ones, which give people the opportunity not to get under the enormous pressure they're under. I've actually been dealing with this since the House. I have to say that the e-mails and meetings that I have with people who are affected by executions, of course some people are themselves responsible, on the other hand there are a lot of people who unfortunately got into such a difficult situation that they did not have the opportunity to dig themselves out of this situation, or they got into the gear of executors, where one execution then alternates another. I take these proposals, which are coming, very positive at this point in time. I am glad because it was also topics that appeared in emails and personal meetings. This proposal, which is coming, addresses these problems. I would, of course, like to ask and ask for your position to be positive, because I think that the work on the executions and the comparison of the situation, the situation that is, is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u9	Thank you, Mr Černoch. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u10	Thank you for the floor. I am certainly not going to propose neither rejection nor return to work, because I am glad that, after almost a year, when we are still dealing with this issue on the basis of proposals prepared as MPs, the Minister then promised that he would try to work on the objections that were made to the Members' proposals and prepare new proposals that would have been passed through the ordinary legislative process, so we have the opportunity to discuss essentially two thousand embodied in a single proposal. In my view, it is right that we are dealing with these points because the current adjustment needs to be changed. The one point that needs to be adjusted following the new Civil Code and the changes that have taken place in such a quap under the previous government that they were not prepared as they were supposed to be, at least in the application practice it appears, must be that, indeed, all those who share the joint property of the spouses should be entitled to the protection of the spouse against debts which do not fall within the common property. I believe that the modification, as it is written, should be accepted. Perhaps we could consider specifying it or extending it, that will be at the debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee. It will really be about whether we want to prevent each spouse from being liable only for the debts incurred for marriage, that is, not before marriage, and to be incurred in an appropriate amount that the other spouse knew about. But this really is a debate that won't even be so legal, it'll be very political. And I think it's a good thing that the Ministry didn't come up with an exaggeration and try to solve the real question that was described in the first proposal. As far as the costs of legal representation are concerned, I will confess here, and I will speak for myself, I do not want to speak for the committee or for social democracy, I will give my opinion. I have a question mark on whether, in the same amount as lawyers, those who provide legal services have a licence, have a responsibility, have an obligation or fall under a disciplinary procedure, should receive the same compensation for those who do not comply with this, only because they represent a party to the proceedings. [[18.40 hours]] On the other hand, I will be plotting for dealing with a compromise solution, because on the other hand, I recognise what the Ministry says that it is necessary for those who are not represented and who have the costs of recovering a specific amount to obtain a certain amount as flat-rate, because the demonstration of the specific expenditure incurred in principle is not effective. So I would be in favour of a model where costs would be lower than those qualified, i.e. to those who are representatives, as lawyers and others, but only to those who enforce the claims through their lawyers, i.e. We would motivate e.g. banks and insurance companies to recover these claims directly. Then they would get the costs at least in part, but not to hire private companies or sell thousands of claims to someone else who would then make them into business squared. [[Noise in the hall.]] So it is a model that I would like to discuss. I'm not saying he's the best. I know there are opinions on this from both sides. I do not envy the Ministry that it had to submit a proposal on which it had to find a consensus, so in this sense it is not a complaint against the Ministry of Justice. On the contrary, I thank you for the proposal being made, but I say that I would like to put another perspective on it, i.e. to prevent the abuse of this new institute from creating further claims by giving the costs of the proceedings not only to lawyers, which, by the way, have been severely limited by the Minister's decree, and I think that was the right step, but yet another one, although we can talk about rather negative cases. So much for opening the debate. I don't want to take too long, which is why only a few comments on this matter. I will be pleased to discuss this press at the constitutional committee's meeting as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u11	I thank the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u12	Good evening, dear colleagues. I will, with permission, join the discussion of the other members of the Constitutional Legal Committee here and before the diaper. I'll try to be brief, and I'll respond to the performance of the previous speakers. Of course, I welcome the proposal. koneckonců all, I cannot be critical of my own secretary's proposal. I'd split the performance into two parts. First of all, I would like to say that we have come to an adjustment to the executions aimed at the joint property of the spouses, because it was my first interpellation in the life that I had made in this House and which concerned this very provision, when I pointed out that the civil court order in this part does not actually indicate any changes that took place in the new Civil Code and which became in material law. I am a little concerned that, according to the proposed regulation, the emphasis is placed on putting all contracts through notaries on the public list, which I fear from the point of view of practice that husbands will not always follow, they will not always do it, and when they get into trouble, it will be too late. There are several questions about how this provision will work in practice. I'm prepared in detail for a debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I would just like to pick this up briefly, too. The question is whether a simple return to legislation before 1. 1. In this case, 2013 was not more appropriate. [[Noise in the hall.]] The second part of my speech concerns the regulation of the Code of Civil Procedure as regards the reimbursement of the costs of unrepresented participants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u13	I'm sorry, Mr. Colleague, I think you're going to have to repeat the second part to us if colleagues here, especially the chairmen of the MPs... [[Looking to the right]] ...they will not carry their serious actions out. [[Mr Blazek makes a remark that is not understood. It was fun on the right.]] I told the presidents of the MPs, not just yours, Mr. Blažek. [[with a smile]] Thank you for calming me down and I'll ask my colleague Vondráček to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u14	Now, if I remembered exactly what I was gonna say. [[with a smile]] So as far as compensation for actually not legal representation in the context of civil proceedings is concerned, I fully share the concerns that my previous speaker, colleague Tejc, had. At the moment, there is a Czech justice system on the principle that compensation is granted only to participants represented by a lawyer. I am aware of the constitutional finding, published under No 39/13, where the Constitutional Court has expressed itself on this issue in the sense that such an arrangement, where the represented person does not have to demonstrate the costs incurred and is granted a flat-rate compensation against the unrepresented, that this is an infringement of equality and Art. 37 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Well, of course I'm aware of that. However, I am very critical of actually giving some financial rewards in today's terminology to the general agents. I have practical experience from the courts that municipal agents are a major obstacle to the activities of the court. They are often different types of quadrulants who serve senseless long and extensive submissions and, in a way, are somehow a liability to the entire trial. And even if the compensations are lower, or we're really going to talk about hundreds of crowns for such a general flat rate, then even a few hundred crowns will be worth offering to those concerned, in quotation marks, legal services and filing such submissions. For submissions that will cost several hundred crowns, you can give yourself an idea of how good they will be. A lawyer must meet a number of criteria in order to become an attorney. He must have a degree in law, he must undergo compulsory practice, he must pass a bar exam, he must be properly insured. All of this, then, is some guarantee that civil proceedings are carried out in a certain quality. And I still haven't lost the naive idea that an attorney is a court and justice assistant and that a good lawyer is an asset to justice and is part of the whole system. Here we are opening a door for certain general agents, or perhaps even legal persons, who could partially deal with their business in this way. When I read this submission, I have to agree that I can imagine this for legal persons who are in charge of legal proceedings through their own employees. In short, if the firm has some kind of legal department and the lawyer goes to the courts and properly represents the subject, then yes, then it's okay for him to have an appropriate replacement. But I'm very embarrassed that a reward should be granted to others. We'll have plenty of room in the constitutional committee to comment on this. But if the comments were also made from other parties, I wanted to join the YES movement briefly. I hope I didn't keep you too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u15	I thank Mr Vondráček. Mr František Laudát, after whom Mr Černoch, Mr Fiedler, is now in favour of TOP 09 with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I'll confess, this may be the first of those pieces to solve a certain penza problem. Because there's a lot of talk about how to actually deal with the fact that there's going to be a marriage, that there's not going to be a prenup, or they're going to be paying for prenup contracts, then their own course when there's a divorce. Unfortunately, there's been an incredible noise all this time, so basically, I'm going to admit that I'm completely missing the basics that the secretary and the rapporteur have been trying to explain in detail here. I'd like to ask if any of you guys in the closing argument could say the very basic points of how it's going to go. Because it really wasn't understood. I'm sorry, but I'd hate for us to nod at something. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] [[18.50 hours]] I'm sure it'll go to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I don't know if anybody's gonna propose another committee, but I think this is a typical floor for the Constitutional Committee, but I'll admit I don't know. And then it's not clear to me, then there's the 33rd point, which I'm sure we'll get to at 10:00 tonight, at 11:00 p.m., that is. Civil Code of Procedure. It is a pity that, in some way, the debate has not been merged, or in some way, the points have not gone -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u17	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Many colleagues are not paying attention, yet you are talking about such important things that could happen to all of us in case he has to get a divorce. [[Fun.]] I'm gonna ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u18	Exactly. According to statistics in Prague, each and every other. Marriage is falling apart or divorced. I'm just really out of it - and I don't know how we're gonna act tonight when the atmosphere is here. I just wanted to point out that you can't really work in this. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u19	I thank Mr Laudát. Another duly registered member is Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u20	Thank you again for the floor. It would certainly be good if there were later clarification or clarification within the Constitutional Legal Committee. I must say that a working committee was formed within the Constitutional Legal Committee, which originally aimed at drafting the Dawn proposal on the territoriality of executors. This committee, of course, works. It has worked around since June, when we met several times, but thanks to the cast of this group, which was, I think, quite at the last meeting we had last week, great, whether from the Ministry of Justice, there were representatives of the Executor Chamber, representatives of the Judging Union, representatives of banks, representatives of executors as such, plus, of course, Senator Škromach with his proposal, so I was very surprised, I must say very much, that it surprised that although this commission was originally set up to deal with the territoriality of the executors, we are gradually getting to other proposals and other points in executions as such, which is, for the future, perhaps, such a proposal that is now coming. I must say that Deputy Minister Pelikán, who represented the Ministry of Justice with his colleagues there, said that the Ministry is preparing an amendment to the executive order, that it is preparing an analysis, because the data and points are not yet enough to make a really accurate analysis that will be indicative of the value, and this analysis should be available around mid-December. In the middle of December, we agreed that this commission would meet again and that this commission would also start to deal with these partial points, with the fact that we would join the Ministry of Justice, it would be a round table in quotation marks, where we would discuss these points, and subsequently, whether the Ministry or the coalition or the Member - Members - Members, Members as proposals. Of course it's a journey. A Member, a Member, a Member, I mean a Member, a Member is one. [[Fun.]] These are the points that I think at that point, the moment it works this way, they have a very good chance of going through. And I have to say at úsvit that we will continue to raise this topic, we will continue to fight in this direction, because, as I said here, there are a lot of problems in executions and there is definitely something to solve. This proposal, of course, which is coming, so I think it has its place, as has been said several times before, so that I do not repeat it, and it will certainly be very good if it is discussed on the Constitutional Legal Committee, if it is specified and if it is recommended so that this proposal will, of course, pass through the House here. Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues from this very working group, most of the Members at the same time, and the constitutionally-legal committee who want to work in this group. We have a lot of other topics, whether it's the state supervision of the bailiffs, whether it's checks, whether it's the creation of a sort of executor kobra, so that checks take place, not only by knowing the executioners that such checks will come, but also by spot checks, so that it will work, so that the executor order, as until now was a bit of a wild west, the Klondike, can be compared to the system it should be. In this regard, therefore, I would like once again to ask the House and then, of course, also the Constitutional Legal Committee, where this proposal will go to support this proposal, because I think it is a proposal that is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u21	Thank you, Mr Černoch. pardon me, Mr Vondráček, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u22	I'm just very brief to get this discussion back to college. Of course, in the working group, we are dealing with de lege ferenda, what to do with the fate of execution, but here we are really only dealing with the question that the executor can reach into the account of the other spouse without limit, although he owes nothing, owes it to the other spouse, and can affect the salary of the other spouse indefinitely. And when we had a meeting with the executors' representatives, they assured us that they would only reach out to this step at the moment when the other method of execution was out of the question. I know from my practice, and here I am saying that it is the first thing that the bailiff will do, that once he has the chance, he will affect the payout of the other spouse and the salary of the other spouse will be affected. It's a thing that happens all the time. It is easier for him and completely contradicts the logic of the matter and legislation that we currently have adopted in the new Civil Code. So, in a way, what we're dealing with is the patch of an unacceptable state that already exists today, not, say, a long-term conceptual change in execution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u23	I thank Mr Vondráček. With another factual remark, Mr Plzák. Mrs Chalánková has yet to endure. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Now, in that block of laws on the legal issue, I'm trying to get my bearings by trying really hard to listen. It's a little loud in here, I confess, but I'm interested in things practical. Now, this was about the shareless co-ownership of the spouses, if I take it that way, and the issue of executions. How is it possible that if I, as a husband, am still a husband, I will want to sell something, mostly the buyer wants me to sign his wife's contract. How is it that if one spouse takes a loan and the other doesn't know about it, why doesn't the one who gives the loan want the other spouse's signature? That's what I need to explain, and I want to know if this novel counts on any way that this issue is going to be dealt with in any way, because it really concerns real life, and that's what I think is bothering people. So I'll admit that I haven't dealt with the executors' issues so far, but now that I've heard it, I think I'm gonna start focusing on it intensely, because I see that the problem that the Dawn colleagues have created here is extensive, and I never know when you're gonna need it on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u25	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Now, if the Minister doesn't want to answer, Madame - in the closing statement. Excuse me, Mrs Chalánková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u26	I'll be rather short. I was just inspired by a colleague. I wanted to inform you that a report appeared in the media rather not too much, that the European Committee on Justice, which falls under the European Parliament, adopted today a resolution which fundamentally condemns Norway's behaviour in the case of Czech children in Norway, Denis a David Michalákův. So I would also like to thank Mr Tomáš Zdechovský, the MEP who initiated this resolution, which was approved and adopted. This European Justice Committee has justified the resolution that Norway is grossly violating international law. I would like to ask you, if you are interested in signing a petition that was launched yesterday, the petition sheets are also on the premises of this House. Who would be interested in helping these boys and joining this petition, I beg you, you can also do so on the signatures. Of course, even electronically, these are the options. Where there are signatures to the House, so are the petitioners. I was inspired by my colleague that even though I sent you all a reference to this possibility, I guess you all didn't read the e-mails, so that's why I'm taking the liberty of telling you in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u27	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u28	Mr Vice-President, as we announced yesterday, the unsuspecting points that will be proposed on the agenda today are not proposed because the programme is constantly changing, so let me also take into account the fact that a very important meeting has been convened concerning the Constitution, and when we personally witnessed, for example, yesterday, with our colleague Zavadil, absolutely insane discussions on the subject of the President's dismissal and so on, I believe that this meeting is needed. We need to start agreeing on the outlines of the constitutional changes. Let me ask for two hours at the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u29	I'll give you a break. I also see the request of my colleague Stanjura, Mr President, Mr Fiala's colleague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u30	Thank you for the floor. In order not to go unnecessarily at 21 o'clock, I want to say that yesterday, we correctly announced to our colleagues from the government's parliamentary clubs that we do not wish to see this week after 19 o'clock, which we are here in a variable week, and at the same time we are discussing three meetings. I think the word is to stick to it, even if it's not quite a pleasant message, so on behalf of our club, I'm asking for a two-hour break from 9:00 to 11:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u31	Because I suspect this will continue, so I'll ask my colleague Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u32	Good evening. I would ask - I understand, I understand the agreements, but I would ask - could we at least reach this point? Just vote for this point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u33	I apologise, colleague, but Mr Laudát has already asked, I cannot take it back, it would have to be him or colleague Stanjura. The next person to report is President Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u34	Thank you for the floor. I just want to confirm what my colleague Stanjura said. On the basis of the agreement of the opposition club chairmen, we also request a one-hour break from the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u35	Now, I'm supposed to give a five-hour break, which is until 24.02 hours. Since the meeting is approved today by 24 o'clock, then the meeting was not recorded, so before I interrupt the meeting of the House by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, given what was said about the meeting, I will ask Minister Dienstbier, who will inform the members of the meeting for constitutional procedures. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u36	I would just like to inform briefly the representatives of the individual clubs that the meeting on the constitutional bill on referendums should take place within 20 minutes of the end of the meeting in room C 211, in the so-called atrium. It's a meeting room at the government's disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-007-059.u37	So in room C 211 in the atrium, the requested members will meet in 20 minutes. I am interrupting the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue to respond to the written interpelations to the Prime Minister. Have a good evening.
