ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Legal Measures of the Senate No. 341/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Act No. 55/2012 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended / House printing 300/ - second reading The Minister and the rapporteur are in position. In my view, the general debate has not been concluded. In the general debate, with a factual remark, Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It is precisely because we are confronted here for the first time, although I do not blame the Minister, but her predecessor, the failure and fundamental failure to meet the deadline, so perhaps it would be quite good at this second reading if it were said here when the transposition of the European directive would arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u3	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. If no one applies to the general debate - I can still see Mr Ludvík Hovorka's general debate on a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would still like to comment on points 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, which concern the abolition of the procedure for the submission of a single tender. I know from the experience and submission of some investors, especially mayors, that this matter may be a problem. One view of this is that the complications caused by the current system to contracting authorities will be removed. [[There's an unpleasant rush in the room.]] It is further stated that it is possible to proceed in accordance with § 84 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the law and repeal the procedure in the light of its economic disadvantage before the decision on the selection of the most appropriate tender is taken. However, in my view, there is no statistical indication as to how many proceedings have been annulled so far because of the submission of a single offer which would demonstrate the truthfulness of the claim in the explanatory memorandum. At the same time, it is essentially left to the discretion of the contracting authority whether one tender is suitable for it, and the amendment does not come with any mechanism of comparison as to whether one offer is really advantageous and suitable for the contracting authority. I therefore leave it to you to consider whether to repeal the existing provisions on the annulment of the procedure. And a reflection on the form of a concession system. The concession system could give for the creation of an oligopolistic system of several large companies, which would be able to perform contracts of any extent, thereby eliminating from the participation of a smaller company that would be moved to the position of subcontractors or would be completely excluded. This would significantly increase competition and it is a question of whether the introduction of a concession system would conflict with European competition law. [[Time warning]] It's just a bit of a discussion that's been going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u5	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's point of fact is now still in effect. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already been registered in the previous part today, so I am following up on what has been said here. Thank you very much to my colleague Birke and my colleague Černochová for the words that have been said here as mayors. I, as mayor, would like to say one more fact, which is the problem of 50 percent more work. Blanka Tunnel costs 40 billion Roughly. If we put 50% of the possibility of an increase, it's 20 billion. Do you think the mayor is able to plan on spending an extra amount of that? When we were doing Blanka, then we had to do all the more work. And all I'm saying is that if it wasn't for a bridge that was built separately and beyond, there'd be a 20 percent increase in the price of the Blanka tunnel. I very much warn against such a sum, which for large orders, and Prague knows no other than large, means a completely devastating sum. In addition, every such space opens up to large contracting entities. Small contracting entities won't have a chance to compete at all, because the big ones are gonna throw the price so significantly that the small contracting entity will never be able to fit in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u7	I thank Mr Svoboda. Another factual point by Mr Laudát and then with priority rights on the factual remark by Minister Šlechtová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u8	I don't want to be a coalition attorney here, but I say again, if someone had read that they would have eliminated more jobs and less work, as they fully agreed with the professor. However, it's not there, so here's the problem, and the really technical novel - just the predecessor of the secretary prepared it miserably. I can't help myself, quite inadequately. And at the same time, she heard about ten points -- a technical change in parameters, where the shoe pushes the orders most, she didn't do it for some reason, probably the pressures of some NGOs. So let's cut the point by tomorrow, or somebody's gonna load it, and then they can shrink the limit. However, I would point out that we will simply be two states in Europe, at least if I are to trust the trade unions or who is sending those letters that have lower limits than the fifty. And they probably have reasons to say that, too. I'm telling you again, if you were there, you know that the development is so fast in both construction and other technologies that you're just going to put into operation constructions that are out of date at the time of commission, because then everything is a change. But if at least someone had read the subtraction of more work, less work, because we don't talk here in a number of cases, but I'm saying, it's only half the truth, that it's going to increase and that you can go 50 percent off the price of the work. The point is, you can't subtract what you usually save a substantial part of innovation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u9	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Karla Šlechtová. I have no other application for a general debate. If no one checks in, I could consider it the final word of the petitioner, Madam Secretary, if you like. [[- Definitely.]] Absolutely. So, if no one is reporting, I am closing the general debate and the final words of Minister Šlechtová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for all the suggestions that have been made here, but I do believe that we have been mixing a lot of the new law and the current amendment here. I inherited the amendment, and basically the amendment didn't have to be and exist at all, because we were all supposed to concentrate on the new law. The amendment is on the table. From the Ministry's side, this was a helpful step towards eliminating the biggest ones from our point of view, but not only from the ministerial side - here I would like to say that the amendment went through a colleague of the Minister, expert groups of colleagues from the Confederation of Industry and Transport, social and economic partners, builders, others. It's not just the idea of the Ministry of Regional Development. However, what you said here will be dealt with in many ways in the new law. I'd just refer to some things. A question less-- and more work. I beg to differ that someone has prepared a bad novel for me. The amendment was already prepared at the end of August and the government was given 3. 9. I've been appointed to office 8. 10. I am merely expressing my views on the amendments which are my duty to really comment on them from the position of Minister for Regional Development. [[18.40 hours]] Less- and more work can't be added. We can talk about this in the new law, now, in this novel, it's just not gonna work. The novel is a partial novel, a technical novel. In the introduction, I told the details of what it should be about. I think it's in our interest to open the evaluation criteria by at least one criterion, that is, the team. References. I would like to mention here that, under European directives and under European law, references are not an evaluation criterion as an individual criterion. They are part of subjective criteria. We will, of course, still try to discuss this with the Commission, whether at least references can be a separate criterion. I just can't do it now. It's not even in the novel. We'll be happy if it somehow communicates with us into the new law. That's another thing. I have been asked when the proposal for a new law will essentially be submitted. Since my staff at the Ministry of Regional Development has been dealing with this amendment for six months, of course, the shift in work will shift to the maximum of April, when the new law must be effective. Personally, I will try to start next year, and I am just saying for one question that it will not be in January, it will not be in February, I will be glad if it will really be in the spring to take everything we can into the new law on public procurement. Indeed, this new law will not just be another amendment, as some have also spoken. It will be a new law, which, of course, will contain a lot of new things on the part of the European directives and the transposition of those directives that now exist and which the Czech Republic must transpose by 18 April 2016. If we don't do this, there'll be infringement. That is what I would like to hear here, because the Czech Republic does not have enough of these infringements. The Ministry of Regional Development will try now, if you approve this amendment at third reading, then it will go to the Senate, to the President, to allocate all its forces to the new law. As I said at the outset, this novel may not have come about. It was the decision of the former head of the Ministry for Regional Development to open up the possibility for investors. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Here came the criticism that we are basically opening bigger scissors to not being fired, virtually. We won't cancel the procurement procedure on the same offer. I don't know who talked to who, however, at the College of Ministers, which Ministry -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u11	I ask the House for peace of mind to hear the Minister's final word. Since we are discussing this law with some interruption, I am asking for focus. Please, Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u12	Thank you, Mr President. There is a College of Minister for Regional Development, which has already been established by Mrs Jourová. It only met once. Of course, I would like this College to be one of those experts who can advise the MMR to enter into this new law, whether it concerns economic partners, whether it concerns your members as well. I don't mean the MPs, but your teams, your lawyers. This is what I'm offering here. Another thing I've been asked about, virtually. There was a lot of falling, it's twenty, fifty. I would also like to say that the Ministry of Regional Development does not propose an increase of 20% to 50. It is a proposal for amendments, not the Ministry of Regional Development. We only propose this in the new law under the European directive, not now. It's a partial novel that basically only has the five points I said in the introduction. Next I was asked, respectively. There were various topics about the UOHS. That is the last thing I will comment on here, and the rest will be discussed in the third reading. The question of the UOHS is already being addressed in administrative proceedings. This is not enshrined in the Public Procurement Act, nor will it be enshrined in the Public Procurement Act. The existence of the ÚOHS and its powers are based on another law, it is not dealt with within the framework of the Public Procurement Act. I myself understand that administrative proceedings may take up to nine months from the UOHS to essentially launch another complaint that was sent there. On the other hand, I am very pleased by many Members and from different clubs that you accept that public contracts affect the most projects that are co-financed from the European Union. That means we all want the money. This isn't just about me. It is not that I am in communication with the Commission or that I am being attacked, that I do not defend the interests of the Czech Republic. The law is supposed to help us. This amendment is supposed to help us at least this year before there's a new law on public procurement. And if there are so many proposals, then I suggest we talk about it, but about the new law, not the amendment, which is supposed to deal with only partial things, not technical things, only partial things. This is everything from me and I look forward to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u13	Thank you. I'm asking if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. He doesn't. The other rapporteur does not either. We will discuss the debate in detail. The first is the reporter Okleštěk. Mr Vyzula will be ready. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose a new text in Article 4, namely: This law shall take effect on the date of its publication.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u15	Thank you. Now Mr Rostislav Vyzula, Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I hereby wish to sign up for the amendment, which is inserted under number 1726 in the system. It's made up of three points. The first two points relate to an electronic auction, as I said. This means that the evaluation committee can evaluate the price only after the electronic auction. The third point concerns protected workshops, which means that someone does not smart and sell through protected workshops completely other goods that have not been produced in protected workshops, and actually benefitted these goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u17	I thank Mr Vyzula. The words will be taken in a detailed debate by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, and František Vácha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to make some amendments. That is to say, in point 2, the words "which the contracting authority shall act with due care" shall be replaced by "which the contracting authority shall act with due care to the proper economic operator." And this is because the proper care is the concept of indefinite, whereas the concept of proper care is the concept of already judicated and can be found expert articles dealing with its definition, and therefore I personally consider it more certain. To point 15. I propose - paragraph 15 is deleted. Short justification. The reasoned report argues that the list of evaluators should be deleted because of the replacement of this system by a state expert system, which is, however, in the preparation phase, but the date of completion is not known and is expected to be 2015. Although the explanatory memorandum refers to the risk of duplication of control, which would make it difficult to award, it is considered whether to release the list of assessors at a time when the system of state expertise is not developed and prepared. In addition, point 33 is deleted. A brief statement of reasons. I consider the launch of the Institute of Opponent Expert Opinion inappropriate. The opponent's opinion is intended to serve as an insurance policy in the award of large-scale public contracts, with the competent authority always being the Ministry. The reasoned report argues with insufficient administrative capacity and an extension of the procedure by weeks. It also states that it is possible, even without this provision, that the government may request an ad hoc opinion if necessary. This cannot be accepted as a relevant argument. If the government only accedes to an optional request in only half of the cases, in order to have better control over public finances, there will be the same administrative problem with capacity and may be even more prolonged. If the ministries count on opinions, they can be prepared in time. In my view, the current proposal assumes that the government will never require opposing opinions, which I consider to be incorrect and contrary to the rules of proper public finances. [[18.50 hours]] Next - item 34 is deleted. Here again, I disagree with releasing the need for review for a member of the evaluation committee. Given what contracts are being negotiated in this regime, in my opinion, a declaration of confidentiality by a member of the Commission is insufficient. The proposed amendment, according to the explanatory memorandum, addresses the current situation where there are not enough trusted persons to ensure the Commission's work. However, the amendment should not dodge the inadequate administrative provision of eligible workers. It should, on the other hand, be an effort by contracting authorities to ensure that sufficient eligible workers are able to comply with the existing mechanisms. In this case, I consider the amendment to be an inappropriate concession and I recommend not to approve of this change. Consequently, the addition of the amendment - the other points are being numbered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u19	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr František Vácha will speak in a detailed debate, and Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I subscribe to my amendment number 1663 as amended by: Do § 2 para. the following point (e) is inserted after point (d): Article 4 (1) (a) (a) to (d) which deal separately with the funds allocated, provided that they are covered by the contracting authority referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) to (d) delegate competence under this law by its decision or internal regulation'. Then there is a footnote: e.g. Section 22 of Law No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions, § 4 of Act No. 128/2000 Sb., on municipalities. As I have already mentioned, the proposed amendment to the Act extends the scope of contracting entities to the law given by the organisational component of the contracting authority which deal separately with the allocated funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u21	I thank Mr František Vách. Now in a detailed debate, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u22	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Government, I want to sign up for the amendment introduced under number 1731 in the system. In short, although I would not expect, there is an institution in this country that does not use the Czech language as its mother tongue, namely, I am heading towards an institution as respected as Charles University. All the graduates of this university will tell me that they have a degree in Latin, that they have graduated from Charles University. Unfortunately, the Public Procurement Act says that procurement documents or documentation proving qualifications can be entered in the Czech or Slovak language. [[unintelligible]] In my practice, I met with the fact that the contracting authorities required the translation of the Charles University's diploma from Latin into Czech. Dead serious. It was not a reason to be expelled, but it was a reason to delay the decision-making process so that a company might not be able to sign up. So if you have a team to sign up for, it's five college students, all graduates of Charles University, so you pay CZK 1,500 for every translation from Latin to Czech to document it in the contract. And that's what I met physically, it's a big problem. I therefore take the liberty of making a very short amendment, which reads: in paragraph 32 in the fifth part of Paragraph 148 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 6 the following sentence shall be added: "Undergraduate diplomas may be presented in the Latin language." I consulted with the Ministry's legislation on this point and they agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-008-012.u23	Thank you for the suggestion. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate. I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak in detail. This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur? He's not interested. The other rapporteur? He's not interested either. I will check with the rapporteur's lords to see if there has been any proposal that would require a vote. This is not the case, nor is the reduction of the time limit for discussion between second and third reading. Then I finish second reading of this bill. Thank you, of course, to the Minister, the rapporteur. We should continue with the next item, but I have one suggestion. But first, I'll give the chairman of the TOP 09... I have verified that, according to the approved programme of our negotiations, we have a very serious point ahead of us, which is the environmental impact assessment of the EIA. Given the way we discussed this and the proposals I expect at second reading, I will conclude today's meeting because we could not continue after 19 o'clock, we would not have even met the plaintiff's opening words. So I look forward to seeing you tomorrow with the fact that, according to the approved agenda of the meeting, the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 is prepared for discussion tomorrow, of course, and if we discuss it on time, then possibly other points from the block of second reading of laws, that is, the law that is next, that is, the EIA. So have a nice evening, and I'm looking forward to seeing you tomorrow.
