ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u1	18. Government bill on the abolition of the military retreat of Brda, on the establishment of borders of military retreats, on the change of borders of regions and on the amendment of related laws (law on the border of military retreats) /German press 57/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický will state the draft bill. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, given the rather complex material, but above all, given the time available, I will try to shorten my introductory words, although it is not quite easy under the circumstances. But the suggestion -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u3	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I'm asking my colleagues to hang in there. I know it's a long day, but please keep your voice down. If you have something to say, do it in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u4	Thank you, too. The proposal has been discussed in the Committees on Defence, the Environment and Public Administration and Regional Development, and I expect you to be familiar with the resolutions of the various committees with the designated rapporteurs. The main reason, as we all know, is to optimize military retreats, reduce military numbers. She's a major influence. So in the number we're showing today, that's about 21,000 soldiers, we don't need raids that were designed for 115,000 soldiers. Another important reason is the settlement of civil rights for the residents of military retreats. They cannot vote or be elected, nor can they own real estate. The idea of course has its history and its course, based on the White Paper on Defence, is based on a detailed and comprehensive analysis of the General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic. Military retreats Boletice, Hradiště and Libavá fully meet the training of army units in all types of preparation, military retreat Březina offers specific conditions for basic training and also improvement training of professionals. Unlike that, Brdy's military retreat is primarily intended to train artillery. Due to its area of training areas, and this is only 12 per cent of the area of departure, it does not allow full training. Our bill brings a change to the existing borders of the departure of Boletice, Březina, Hradiště, Libavá and then the abolition of the military retreat of Brdy. New municipalities will be allowed to be created in the reserved areas or the territory to be assigned to the territory of adjacent municipalities. The implementation of this proposal can release about 42 thousand ha from a total of approximately 130 thousand ha of military escapes. This is also allowing more than two thousand residents of military retreats to realize, as I have already indicated, the constitutional right to self-government through the emergence of new municipalities. Up to now, the administration is being carried out by the so-called Uh, U.S. Attorney's Office. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Defence has pursued the greatest possible involvement of the residents concerned and the mayors of adjacent municipalities in all negotiations during the negotiation and production process. The Ministry of Defence's Interresorial Commission was established for this purpose, and a number of institutions, such as the Ministry of Interior, Environment, Finance, Agriculture, for local development, the Czech Office of Landscape and Cadastral and, of course, representatives of the regions concerned, regional authorities and representatives of the municipalities concerned, participated in the preparation of the proposal. Again, shortening my opening words. The proposal for optimization includes an agreement on the transfer of property from the Ministry of Defence's ownership to the newly created municipalities. The creation of new municipalities is de facto a restoration of the original municipalities. The new municipalities will be created from the settlement units, which for more than 60 years managed the army, and thus the unnatural condition, which arose in 1949, is being corrected. I would also like to emphasise one more thing that the bill is the result of long-term, really long-term and complex negotiations and is linked to the high expectations of the citizens concerned. They have believed several times and repeatedly in the settlement of their civil rights and, unfortunately, the state has failed them several times in the past when the negotiations have ended in vain. Unapproval of the proposed bill would shock the credibility of not only the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Czech Republic but also the entire state administration in a fundamental way, I believe. In view of the time slip that occurred during the hearing - the originally proposed proposal that municipalities should be established at 1. 1. 2015, of course, it is no longer technically possible or theoretically - so the proposal is to postpone this term. That's what the municipalities understand. The adoption is essential for them as soon as possible and the end of the long-term uncertainty associated with the emergence of new municipalities. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude completely that this is a good and very carefully discussed compromise, which brings an appropriate solution to a long-term postponed and unsolved problem. On the one hand, it offsets the debt that our state has for several decades towards a part of its citizens, and on the other hand, it meets the demands of the army to adjust the training areas in accordance with its real needs and financial possibilities. I therefore believe that you will support the proposal and recommend it for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u5	Thank you, Minister. At first we ordered the proposal to be submitted to the Committee on Defence and the Committee on the Environment to be discussed. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development also discussed this proposal on an initiative. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 57/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Defence Committee, Mr Ivan Gabal, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Defence Committee of the 6th meeting of 9 April 2014 on the Government Bill on the abolition of the Brda military retreat, on the setting of limits on military retreats, on the change of borders of the regions and on the amendment of related laws, House Press 57. [[Act on Frontiers of Military Retreats]] Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening information of the Minister of Defence Mgr Martin Stropnický, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Genpor. Ing. Mr Petr Pavel and Mr Ivan Gabal's report and after the debate 1. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's bill on the abolition of the Brda military retreat, on the setting of boundaries of military retreats, on the change of borders of regions and on the amendment of related laws, House press 57, should be approved; 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; 3. Instructs the President of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u7	I thank the rapporteur and now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Václav Zemek, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová, take the floor gradually. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u8	Thank you for the floor, good afternoon. Dear colleagues, the Committee on the Environment discussed this press at its meeting on 9 April and adopted the following resolution: 1. It considers it essential for the protection of natural values in the current military retreat of Brdy to be the day of the cancellation of the military retreat of Brdy the day of the announcement of the Protected Landscape Area of Brdy. 2. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. 3. It empowers the rapporteur - i.e. me to introduce him to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I would add to that point that, following the debate in the Committee on the Environment, a promise was given here by a representative of the Ministry of the Environment that the protected landscape area of Brdy will actually be announced on the day of the abolition of the military retreat, and it is already being worked out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u9	Thank you, and now, please, Mrs Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 7th meeting of 10 April 2014. Government bill on the abolition of the Brda military retreat, on the setting of boundaries of military retreats, on the change of borders of regions and on the amendment of related laws, House press 57. [[Act on Frontiers of Military Retreats]] The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 7th meeting following the reasoning of the proposal by Mr Martin Stropnický, Minister of Defence, following the Ing report. Věra Kovářová and, after the debate, adopted a resolution by which: 1. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the press 57 in the submitted text with an emphasis on the need to secure the development of emerging municipalities with funds of twice the budgetary determination of taxes and methodological advice by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment; 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies; 3. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u11	I thank the rapporteur, and I am now opening up a general debate in which the President of the House, Mr Jan Hamáček, is with priority right. Please prepare Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u12	Madam Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to this law in the first reading, and don't worry, I will not repeat all the arguments I have put forward because that is not what the second reading serves to do. Just allow me to make a few comments and to point out new facts. First of all, I find the way this law is being negotiated to be very unhappy. This law combines two things in itself. It connects what the Minister was talking about, that is to correct the injustices in the case of the four other military retreats, and then involves the abolition of Brdy's military retreat. And the fact that the law is in a slipstream and that a new community cannot be built in four military retreats is precisely the problem of the combination of border changes and the interference of Brdy's military retreat. If the Ministry of Defence had perhaps heard the views of the opponents and had already divided these things at that first stage, new communities could have been created long ago, we did not have to discuss this law within a period of 120 days and there would have been no slippage. I submit that I have absolutely nothing against modifications concerning the boundaries of military retreats, except Brd. What I fundamentally disagree with is the abolition of Brdy's military retreat. And as I said, I made the arguments at first reading. Even the resolution of the Committee on the Environment raises concerns about Brdské nature, and that is one argument and perhaps the only argument I want to make. Because the whole time this thing is very closely monitored by the inhabitants of the Central Bohemia Region and the Pilsen Region, and there is a fear of what will happen to the space after the army leaves. Of course, I respect and take note of the promise of the Ministry of the Environment that a protected landscape area will be declared, which is actually the only way to protect nature, however much I believe the best way to protect nature is at this time that there is a military retreat. However, the reports that have come up recently, and especially the initiative that has appeared in Příbram, are against this, and I consider this to be very dangerous. In the daily press, we could read that the Příbram movement YES, whose leader is Jindřich Vařeka, published a whole set of articles on how Brd should be dealt with after the military retreat was canceled. And if we learn that he had a study of how to build a multifunctional sports complex in Brdech, whose center could be a downhill area on the slopes Threesome with six tracks, a backup parking lot, gazebos, cable lanes -- well, that's not how I imagine a protected landscape area. I don't want to suspect anyone, and I'm not even a fan of conspiracy theories, I think that this thing has made life more difficult for the Minister of Defence because it belongs to the same political party, and now it will be very difficult to explain the initiative of the movement in the region. And that's why I'm convinced that we should think again about whether or not to separate these things right now. If you don't let the changes in the boundaries of military retreats, those that are okay, where it's negotiated and where the problem isn't, and the issue of putting Brd aside, get back to it, debate. Because, by the way, apart from the fact that there's an aspect of environmental protection, some development plans, there's still no agreement between the Plzeň Region and the Central Bohemia Region on how it's going to be. The Central Bohemia Region disagrees with the abolition of Brdy's military retreat and the Pilsen Region has the opposite position. I find it unfortunate that we will push the House here something that is against the will of one of the key players, the Central Bohemia Region. So I would ask very much that you pay attention to the two amendments that I will read and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. One of them concerns precisely the division, that we will therefore remove everything concerning Brd from this law and allow for the emergence of new municipalities in other military refuges. The second amendment is such a backup, if the House accidentally insists on abolishing Brda's military retreat, it is an amendment that governs some of the property relations that I believe are passing away from this current bill. Thank you for your attention and I am also reporting to the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u13	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Novotný's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear government, dear colleagues, colleagues, I do not want to discuss whether or not to abolish Brdy's retreat or to set limits on military retreats. Rather, I would like to sign up for the amendment, which I will then read in a detailed debate, and I would like to justify it. In my amendment, the provisions of Section 9 of the property security of municipalities and regions are added, at the end of the paragraph. The following sentence shall be added: "The Ministry shall submit to the Government the consents of the preparatory committees of municipalities and regions to this list.' I'll explain why. The Government's bill consists of new legislation that abolishes Brdy's military retreat, sets limits on military retreats and changes the boundaries of the regions. In a direct context, it then changes a number of the laws concerned. Efficacy is proposed from 1. 1. 2015. This new law, for example. in § 4 changes the boundaries of the military retreat Hradiště, also known as Doupov, and defines the emergence of new municipalities Bražec and Doupovský Hradiště. In the provisions of Section 7, it changes the boundaries of the territory of the Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region. In Section 9, the property security of municipalities and regions is regulated. In Section 10, it regulates the satisfaction of the needs of the population in many areas, including the management of communications and the provision of transport services. In 2012, a working group managed by the Transport Department of the Road Economy of the Karlovy Vary Region, hereinafter referred to as ODSH, was established for the road solution area to optimize the military exit of Hradiště. In this working group, representatives of the ODSH, regional administration and maintenance of the roads of the Karlovy Vary Region, the Military Departure Office of Hradiště, representatives of the municipal authorities concerned and the preparatory committee of the new municipalities were represented. The Working Group has examined physically all communications located in the territory of Hradiště and proposals for agreements on the classification of such communications have been submitted. proposed property ratios for such communications. Protocols have been drawn up from subsequent negotiations. The output was the creation of a document, a set of documents at ODSH, Optimization of the Military Departure Hradiště - classification of roads. [[18.40 hours]] The main problem of the newly proposed legislation is that the Karlovy Vary Region perceives that the determination of the related property, especially immovable property, i.e. land and communications on them are not to be defined by law but to be drawn up on the list, see Section 9, and this list is to be approved by the government. However, this list must be approved by the Government no later than 30 days before the date of the emergence of the new municipalities, i.e. before 1. 1. 2015, the list in question must be discussed by the Ministry by the preparatory committees, municipalities or regions concerned before submitting to the Government - and now beware - only. No act of agreement or any element of agreement is therefore required. For the above reasons, I recommend adopting an amendment in such a way that the related possible economic problems or the discussion of that list between the Ministry of Defence and the regions, respectively. The municipalities eliminated as much as possible in advance. So I repeat again, the new and complete wording of Section 9 para. The list of items which are the subject of the transition to municipalities or regions referred to in paragraph 4 shall read as follows: The Ministry shall consult the preparatory committees, municipalities or regions concerned before submitting it to the Government. The Ministry will also submit to the Government the approval of the preparatory committees of municipalities and regions to this list. Thank you for your attention and I hope that you will support this amendment, which I will sign up to, and it is the House Press, document 681. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u15	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Votava's microphone. Please have Mr. Zahradník prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u16	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I have spoken on this issue at first reading, but I think it is good to speak now at second reading. I have a different opinion, a different opinion than my colleague Hamáček, my party colleague, President Hamáček. It's logical. He's Středočech, and I'm from Pilsen County. And as he said here, both regions have a different opinion on this matter. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I'm quite sorry that this thing in particular -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u17	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but the noise level is rising again. Let's just hang on for 15 minutes and listen to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u18	- that this thing, especially when it comes to disturbing a military retreat, arouses such emotion. After all, this also resulted from negotiations in first reading, media outputs, etc. I think that the objections raised by some Members, which were particularly at first reading, were not very convincing, let it be the view that the military does not really need this space - I take the words of the Minister. The minister says he doesn't need it, I mean, Brdy's military retreat, or the speakers who were here at first reading said that the military needed a military retreat, that it was necessary for the army. I don't think the military needs it either, but when the Minister says so, it must be true. I'm sure there were also falling questions about what's going to happen with the retreat when it's canceled, with the space that developers would throw themselves at it, that there would be an unbiased construction of various hotels, ski slopes. After all, we have heard this from President Hamáček, who quoted a Mr. Vařeka or whatever his name is. I take it it's completely stupid. On this point, I can only say that the regional development department of the Pilsen Region had already carried out an urban study in 2013 for the future use of this territory and there is no development construction in these new territories at all. The study also corresponds with the upcoming announcement of the protected landscape area. The intention of establishing a protected landscape area was already approved by the Ministry of the Environment in August 2012, in so-called a large variant that doesn't just concern the self-department, but also the wider territory around this retreat. So I think that even these opinions about some development activity are odd. Of course, the emotion is that these two regions, the Pilsen Region and the Central Bohemia Region cannot agree on this. The reason for this is that part of the territory, the cadastral, is to fall to the municipalities of the Pilsen Region at the expense of the Central Bohemia Region, but it has some historical reason. That was, of course, the other way around when this military retreat was being set up, given that some of the integrity of the military retreat would be preserved. So designing into the original historical boundaries is important for the Plzeň Region and its communities. I've already said at first reading why it's important. This is particularly important for water protection solutions such as flood control measures, protection of drinking water sources. Almost every year, the Klabava river is being flooded, leaving behind large material damage in the area of the Cadastral of the villages Strašice, Hrádek, Rokycany and especially Dýšina, Nová Huť, which is why this area is important so that municipalities can deal with flood control measures. I would therefore ask and appeal very much, because an amendment is tabled here, even if I respect my party colleague, whom I very much appreciate, to consider this amendment, so that it is not accepted, because it really needs to be abolished, and therefore, of course, by repealing the demands of municipalities to address their problems. I think it's very important to those communities. I'm not just presenting my personal opinion here. I am a representative of the Plzeň Region, not only do I live in the Plzeň Region, of course, so I am also obliged to defend the interest of the Plzeň Region and to defend the interest of its municipalities. I met with a number of mayors on this topic not only as a representative of the Pilsen Region but also as an MP. Indeed, a number of municipalities feel it is necessary to approve this bill so that Brdy's cancellation of the military retreat remains there. I would also like to say that with the proposed solution, as submitted by the Ministry of Defence, the initiative did not come out of the Pilsen Region nor did it come out of the Central Bohemia Region, but it was mainly the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, that the military escape is really necessary for defence, that it simply does not need it for training. I therefore believe that it is necessary for the Brd municipalities and the Brd territory to be able to return to normal life again, to normal order, because a number of municipalities were limited by the fact that there was a military retreat. We need this space to open up. And once again, I stress, not for developers, but for its beautiful landscape to be opened to other citizens as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u19	Thank you. We will now deal with two factual points. First comes Mr. Vondrášek, second in the order of the President of the House of Hamáček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow up on the beautiful words of my colleague Votava. I'm Wednesday, and I'm here to tell all the mayors of the Central Bohemia Region that they don't want to disturb space. They want military space to stay there. And since there's always money behind everything, I'd ask the Minister if he saves so much to shut down Brd's premises, how much we pay to rent land in other military training areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u21	Thank you. Now, please, with the de facto President Hamáček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u22	I don't want to lead an intra-party controversy here, we're gonna talk about it at the club, but I'm kind of jealous of my colleague Votav's optimism. Because calling it nonsense a study he had a candidate for the mayor of Příbram as one of the government parties, I'd be more careful. Either the gentleman doesn't know what he's doing, and he's got enough money to throw them away for nonsense studies, or he knows what he's doing. I'm just saying that if the military retreat stays in Brdech, the study will be useless. All other alternatives certainly don't look like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u23	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Zahradník's microphone. Please prepare Mr. Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw our attention to the military retreat of Boletice, which is the subject of Section 2 of the bill submitted in particular. The military space of Boletice is part of the South Bohemia Region and significantly affects the life of the inhabitants on the territory of its borders. The South Bohemia Region dealt with the idea of civilian use of the territory of the military area of Boletice in the long term, and in this respect, when I was the commander of the South Bohemia Region, we discussed with the Army of the Czech Republic how to use the civil space. We dealt with ideas gradually, from the abolition of a military retreat to a compromise that was reached in 2005 and 2006. At that time it was agreed that we would jointly support the release of the southwest part of the military retreat, the part that is adjacent to the town of Horní Plana, that is, the Lipno region. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] This idea was then materialized in a declaration signed by three Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic on 24 May 2006: Minister of Defence, Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Environment with the Governor of the South Bohemia Region. Of course, the Declaration applies -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u25	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. We'll wait for our colleagues to keep their voices down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u26	Thank you, too. - and it didn't come true. Hejtman of the South Bohemia Region Jiří Zimola continued his efforts to conclude another declaration with the Minister of Defence Vondra, where there was also talk about certain milder conditions for use. Finally, in the current proposal, the military space of Boletice is reduced by a certain marginal part on its territory, including the cadastral territory of the Mushroom Vrch, which is transferred to the village Horní Planá. It's good. The town of Upper Plana is actually, you might say, closed between the Lipno dam from the southwest and from the north by the military retreat of Boletice. Lipno is an important development area for the Upper Plana, the Lipno reservoir provides it with the possibility to use tourism. However, the village is closed from the north, and I therefore welcome this proposal. I even think as a person who signed the declaration at the time, it is my duty to try to propose that it be completed now. Since the territory we proposed at the time is difficult to describe, in my amendment, which I tabled to the system, I would like to propose to remove Maňávka's cadastral territory from the area of refuge of Boletice near Český Krumlov. This area, together with the Mushroom Hill, has an area of approximately 2,800 hectares and consists of 13 percent of the territory of the military retreat. The entire territory which I propose to remove is part of the Protected Landscape Area of Šumava. It is also protected by the Natura 2000 regime as well as the avian region and as the habitat area. There are other regimes of nature conservation. So there's no need to worry about nature conservation here in this territory. I think that South Bohemia and the region of Sumava deserve to be supported by this proposal and that for its inhabitants, but especially for its visitors, for tourists, a new possibility be given to use the beautiful Pošumavi territory. The proposal is very simple: In § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) which speaks of the removal of the Mushroom Hill, the words "and Maňávka u Český Krumlov" will be added just after the words "Mushroom Hill." In addition, it is also necessary to define in Section 6, where, on the contrary, the boundaries of the remaining military retreat of Boletice are defined, precisely the territory of Puppets, so that the letters must be deleted there. (d) and indicate the following letters. This is my amendment, whose opposition at third reading I beg all of you and to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u27	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone. Please have Mr Grospič prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u28	hezký evening, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. I'd like to get my attention back on Brdy. The words of Mr Votava were kind, nice, I understand him from the position of Pilsen mayors, but when we return to Central Bohemia, we were there several times at several meetings with the mayors. Outside of one mayor, everyone would like Brdy's military retreat to stay the way it is now, because of course one thing is nature, which is really beautiful there, I have to say it's beautiful there, but the next question is whether we can even clean up the space. Because, as has already been said, there are places that are infested, and the bullets are already five meters below, there are larger birches above it. If anything like that can be cleaned, if that's even possible. The next thing you know, there are objects that I don't even think can be undone. If at this point it really isn't worth thinking about in the current situation as regards the security situation, if the army doesn't increase again, if it doesn't increase and if it doesn't need a place to practice again, if it's not a big step forward. Of course, I understand the Minister, I understand everyone who says it costs money, but I think that the moment it opens, first of all, the army will lose the place where it can practice, and second of all, the nature that's there can't be protected, even if it's a protected landscape area, because the mayors are already saying: they're flying on quads. Those who try to defend it in some way - often organized groups - are soldiers. Let alone the moment there's one person out there and he's gonna have to catch somebody who's gonna go there on quads. We know how it works. So, if I may ask, support Mr Hamáček's amendment, fellow President, to exempt Brdy's military retreat from the interference of military retreats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-008-018.u29	Thank you, Mr Černoch. As the 19th hour is approaching and we have seconds until 7 p.m., I am ending today's meeting, I am interrupting this item and interrupting the meeting until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue according to the approved programme. Have a good evening.
