ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u1	51. Information about military exercises units and staffs of the Czech Army with foreign partners in and outside the Czech Republic in 2014 /German press 95/ This information will be provided by Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. I beg you, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present a material entitled Information on military exercises of units and crews of the Army of the Czech Republic with foreign partners in and outside the Czech Republic in 2014, which was approved by Government Resolution No. 32 of 8 January 2014
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u3	I'm sorry, Minister. I'm gonna ask my colleagues to keep our voices down so we don't have to scream at each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u4	This material contains an overview of participation in military exercises units and staffs of the Czech Army with foreign partners in the Czech Republic and beyond planned in 2014. Military exercises planned by the Ministry of Defence for the period 2014 are based on our membership in NATO and the European Union. The participation of units and crews of the Czech Army in the planned exercises is the fulfilment of the essential requirements of NATO and EU governing bodies to achieve the necessary level of their interoperability with NATO and EU member states in carrying out joint tasks. The planned participation of the Army of the Czech Republic in exercises with foreign partners is financed from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Priority attention is paid to units and departments destined for foreign missions, NRF - Forces of NATO Rapid Response, and BG EU - EU Combat Grouping. The Ministry of Defence, Operational Command, Unions and Services of the Army of the Czech Republic will participate in a total of 106 exercises and joint trainings outside the Czech Republic and 33 exercises in our territory in 2014. The financial amount allocated to secure participation in these exercises is 66,7 million. Kč. The special case is the exercise of the air force, where the airspace of partner states will be used without landing on an air base abroad, with the cost of such exercises going to the fault of training in the Czech Republic. The most important military exercises planned outside the Czech Republic include, for example, Air-To-Air Refueling exercises aimed at improving, possibly restoring the ability to refuel in flight and tactical management of activities in the Czech airspace, and BALT 2014 exercises aimed at verifying the battleability of the anti-aircraft missile brigade and preparing a unit to strengthen the so-called. NATINAMDS in the framework of actual combat shootings carried out at the firing range abroad, or the Viszegrad Storm exercise organized in cooperation with the crews of the Polish, Slovak and Hungarian departments to reconcile operational procedures of staff of the combined union in the framework of the preparation of EU Battle Group 2016, which will form the armed forces of the Visegrad Four countries. In our territory, the most important training activities can be included in particular training flights of NATO aircraft in the airspace of the Czech Republic. The purpose of these training flights is to carry out practical verification of the readiness of NATO Member States' pilots dedicated to NATINAMDS tasks, to perform those tasks in the airspace and in the territory of other NATO Member States. Special training activities in the Czech Republic will be the stay of troops of the armed forces of the Netherlands and Belgium in the military training areas of Boletice and Hradiště for training purposes. This is a commercial use of training spaces without the participation of our army. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I call for this material to be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u5	Thank you, Minister. This House Press discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 95/1. I ask now that Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, Mr. Bohuslav Chalup, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Before I introduce you to the resolution of the Defence Committee and the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, I will take the liberty of a few sentences to what this honourable institution has been discussing in relation to events in Ukraine in recent days. [[Big noise in the hall.]] In principle, I would like to express my agreement from this point on the position of my fellow Member Gabal, who commented on the motion for a resolution in the detailed debate on Friday 21 March on paragraph 55, namely the increase in defence expenditure, with the fact that the specific amount of expenditure increase should be subject to further expert discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u7	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech. Again, my fellow Members, I must ask you not to sound loudly because they are Members who do not hear. If you want to have fun and discuss other things, please go to the front room and don't cancel the point. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u8	It is smiling that during the past days representatives will be here so-called. traditional political parties with ironic subtext asked why the army should receive more money when it has had such cases as the purchase of pandurs, taters, time, parachutes, etc. The smiling thing is that this is what those who not only participated in these strange cases, but carried and still bear political responsibility for them, and at the time they held their positions, had the opportunity to defend and prevent these things. Unfortunately, I am waiting in vain for one of our fellow Members to step forward and take this responsibility from this place. On Saturday, there were many articles in the press and a statement by representatives of political parties with a certain refusal to increase the cost of defence. And unfortunately, I have a feeling that's how many of us feel about it. I would like to point out that this House, we all have not only political but also moral and perhaps criminal responsibility for the security of our citizens, and that the military is not cheap, but nevertheless a fundamental insurance against an armed enemy, but also for the crisis caused by civilization or natural influences. Peace is not free, and as Mr Werich once said, morality, which is not futurized by a stick, is ridiculous. It has become a certain folklore that national and international obligations are announced with great pomp, which are then not respected without any consequences and sanctions. For example, as far as the European Union is concerned, I can name at random non-compliance with the Maastricht criteria. Unfortunately, at NATO level, it is a commitment by individual Member States to contribute precisely defined percentage of national economies' GDP. During the entire time of our commitment, this is 2 percent of GDP, we have not fulfilled it once. If we don't want to keep contracts and deals, then let's cancel them, or better yet, let's not close them. But if they were closed, it would be honorable to keep them. [[It's very unpleasantly busy in the hall.]] Now to defend and to spend on defense. To understand defense spending only from a financial, purely economic position is not right in my opinion. Our defenses can be understood and measured without wanting to touch soldiers in the service, even in the context that we had, as has already been said, nine defense ministers in ten years, x billion stolen by non-profit or overpriced purchases. Now we have empty equipment stores. The Army -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u9	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I'll cut you off. I would ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and only give information on the committee's deliberations, as discussed by the committee on this point, so that you do not run any further. These are things that are part of the discussion. So then sign up for the debate. Now inform us about how the committee acted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u10	Thanks for the heads-up. So I would like to introduce the House to the resolution of the Defence Committee on 5 March. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening information of the Minister of Defence Mgr Martin Stropnický, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Lieutenant General Ing. Petr Pavel and following the report by the Vice-President of the Ing Committee. Bohuslav Chalupa and first recommended the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to take note of the information on military exercises of the Czech Army forces and crews with foreign partners in and outside the Czech Republic in 2014, the House Press 95; Secondly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, thereby doing so. And now let me make a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic from today's meeting on the Information on Military Exercises of Units and Staffs of the Czech Army with foreign partners in and outside the Czech Republic in 2014: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Information on Military Exercises of Units and Staffs of the Army of the Czech Republic with foreign partners in and outside the Czech Republic in 2014." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u11	Thank you, rapporteur, and I ask you to take the rapporteur's place. I would like to announce that Mr Adam has picked up a replacement card number 14. I am opening a general debate and asking who wants to join it. I have Mr Chalupa's application here, duly registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u12	Thank you. I am sorry that I may have violated the Rules of Procedure in some way, but the reaction of some of you really convinces me that the defence and defence of this country is completely one of many. I'll continue where I left off. If things were being dealt with here about our supersonic air force, the Gripens, it was said that gripens are essentially an expression of statehood. What I'm saying here is, of course, a shortcut, but I'm pretty sure this isn't the threat that a potential attacker would be afraid of. In my opinion, the country's defence is given primarily by the internal setting of us citizens to be willing to defend our country with a weapon in hand. It's due to upbringing to patriotism and moral values. Another dimension of defense is the practical ability to defend yourself, i.e. the ability to operate weapons, weapons systems, submit to command, be physically fit, have certain habits and knowledge that are essential to conduct any effective defense and combat. [[The noise in the hall is growing unpleasantly.]] If we say that Gripens are an expression of statehood worth tens of billions of crowns, then the same, if not more pronounced expression of our statehood is also a sufficient number of trained advances willing and ready to defend their country and the population and well prepared for crisis situations. All this for a fraction of the price of the Gripens already mentioned. On the situation in Ukraine, I would like to point out that I am somewhat appalled by the decision-making not only of President Putin and his administration, but also of Mrs Tymošenková thinking, who completely uninhibitedly proposes the execution of atomic strikes on about eight million Rus living in the interior of Ukraine. This clearly reveals the thinking not only of politicians who now run the Russian Federation but also of Ukrainian politicians. I appeal that, at the NATO summit, our ambassadors very seriously stress the need to create a clear European policy-security concept, and that not only verbal but concrete steps have been taken to create the European Union's armed forces, including the discussion of Article five of the Treaty in relation to its application and cyber-attacks against NATO Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-019-051.u13	Thank you. I will ask you again, because the noise level is really high in this hall. I ask whether anyone has entered into a proper debate, a general debate or a factual remark. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask if you want to have the final word, Minister, or the rapporteur. They both disown the final word. No proposals have been made. In that case, I am voting on the motion for a resolution. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Initiating vote number 123. Who's against it? I'm ending vote number 123. - Now I have the factual comment of Mrs Pěnčíková. No, so there's no factual point. - I mean, it was vote number 123. Present in the hall is 180, for it was 121, against no one. The motion was accepted. The motion has been approved. This concludes item 51. Thank you, gentlemen. We will proceed to discuss item number
