ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u1	Challenge of the outcome of the vote on paragraph 22 and subsequent statements You all know where we are. We are in a situation where objections to vote number 65 and 66 have been raised. The House has accepted this objection, so it is necessary to repeat the vote. I have a request here for a performance with priority rights that I will allow. Mr Okamura has the floor. Before Mr Okamura comes out, I would like your attention. Let me introduce you to the next procedure, or to my point of view. You know that we have had a long debate about whether there may be a debate or whether it is not a debate whether we have opened the debate or not. I admitted to the end of that meeting day of Mr Laudát's speech. However, in the meantime, I have received the opinion of the House of Legislation, which it says - and refers to the Constitutional Court's judicature and says the following. The Constitutional Court, stating, inter alia, that each Member has the right to object to the result of the vote or to vote immediately thereafter, and only if the objection thus raised is accepted by the Chamber of Deputies, can be repeated without a revision of the previous vote, but not renegotiated to the draft law. As a result of Article 76 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. It is clear from the Constitutional Court's ruling that, following the adoption of the objection, the law cannot be renegotiated, i.e. it cannot "resume" the original third reading and the debate on it. I read this opinion by saying that it is not possible to hold a debate. I will allow Members with priority rights to speak, I cannot limit this, but it is not possible to hold a standard debate. This means that, after applications with priority rights are exhausted, we will vote. This is my proposal for a procedure, this is how I read the Constitutional Court's finding, and so is the opinion of the House of Legislation. If anyone objects to this procedure, it will be the cleanest if we deal with it by voting in the form of an objection to the President's procedure. There is no other way, in my opinion, without breaking the Rules of Procedure. Mr Okamura with priority rights, then I register Mr Stanjura, Vice-President Gazdík and Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that you have quoted the Constitutional Court's judgment here, because I would, of course, follow up on it. So, on the contrary, you've made things easier for me. You're discussing a step two, I think it's quite deliberate - sorry, Mr President - but I'd like to focus on step one. Yesterday I went to work and looked at the meaning of the word "immediately." We haven't taken that apart yet. I must say that when I looked at the meaning of the word immediately in professional publications and, for the sake of certainty, in several publicly traceable publications, I also wondered who Mr Hamáček was. I thought it was one of the top three constitutional officials in the Czech Republic. Since he was running for President of the Chamber of Deputies, he certainly has ambition for the future. Ambition is not a bad thing. But above all, the highest representatives of the Czech Republic watch the youth, watch them teachers, watch the public speak Czech, if they even understand Czech. I would assume that the President of the Chamber of Deputies speaks Czech well and speaks Czech so that it is exemplary for the whole Czech Republic. When I looked into the dictionary of Czech synonyms - and many of you have a computer in front of you, so please also take a look - the word immediate means immediate. Well, it doesn't have to be an entirely optimal source, as they say when teaching at a university of economics, that Wikipedia is not a resource that should be taken for 100%, therefore I have prepared others, and in the wiki dictionary is the meaning of the word immediately without a time delay. To recap, so far we have immediate, then we have no time delay. I'd rather look at the other lyrics. I looked into the dictionary of writing Czech for school and public. I assume that President Hamáček and the entire government and the government coalition have definitely graduated from the school. He is a Dictionary of Czech for School and Public, published in Prague by Academia in 1994. It says that the word immediately means very narrow in time. So for now, we have an immediate statement, no time delay, and very tight. In order not to drag it out here, I think it is enough for the fourth source, and this is the Dictionary of the Czech Dictionary, published in Prague by the Academia publishing house in 1989 - for older years who do not remember what they learned at school, I returned up to twenty years ago. It says that the word immediately expresses a very close future, in a moment, in a little while. Why am I talking about this? I think that these are all things that maybe the Constitutional Court will evaluate if the submission occurs. It's black and white. So please, Prime Minister Hamáček, government and kind government coalition, stop raping the laws of the Czech Republic and stop raping the Czech language itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u3	The chairman of the ODS Club, Mr Stanjura, will also perform. At the beginning, I announced that I would not allow a debate, which means no factual points, only priority rights. I rely on the opinion of the House of Legislation and the Constitutional Court. I've called in if anyone disagrees with me, so I asked him to make an objection that the House would decide. That is why I could not accept Mr Korte's factual comment. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To remember, I object to the way you run the meeting. Now I'm gonna justify it. You have a terrible advantage of sitting behind that microphone and not letting anyone else do it. And now it doesn't matter what you read this morning. I'll be back by Wednesday when we're done. You opened the debate on the microphone. Not that it wasn't open. You've opened the debate. The debate is open and has not been closed. In the debate, Mr Marek Benda, a Member of the ODS, could have spoken, but a lot of other Members and Members want to speak, and in an open debate, you sit on the microphone in the morning and say 'I have the opinion of the legislative department that the debate is not possible'. And you've already opened it. So you broke it on Wednesday or today. It doesn't matter what they pay. It does not matter at all, at this point you are unable to manage the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies objectively and independently. I know you have a majority, I really said that on that Wednesday, it's such a formality that I'm going to propose your appeal, objection, and it won't pass. But I have to say this so you don't make excuses for doing it on Wednesday, that we didn't even even object, so we didn't really mind. It bothered us, and it bothers us. I am very happy to get to know the written opinion of the legislation and we will really go after it. I'll try to describe a few absurd cases in the logic of your procedure if we have 3, 4, 5 minutes to object. It is Tuesday 18.59, the debate ended in the first reading of the Government's bill, the opposition proposed voting on rejection at first reading. Government MPs are dealing with coalition disputes somewhere important, there are few, the coalition loses the vote and the law is rejected at first reading at 18.59. You guys are gonna run the meeting and say, "Well, we're gonna finish the meeting in a minute, we're not gonna start a new point, we're gonna meet on Wednesday at 9:00 in the morning." At 9:00 a.m., when the coalition negotiations are over, there is a sufficient number of coalition MPs, you will say: "Mr. Šincl, it happened to him, poor man, only the second time in this parliamentary term, raises an objection to how he voted yesterday. He voted against the rejection and wanted to vote yes or vice versa. Since I ended the day immediately after the vote, which, as everyone understands, is five six minutes, I am voting on Mr Šincl's objection, the objection is accepted, we are voting again." The next day in your logic. And so I could do one example at a time. It could have been 15.59, not 18.59. At the moment of a lost vote, one government club takes two hours off, the other government club takes two hours off. Well, there's no point in meeting at 18.59, and you'll be at the control desk again announcing that you're closing the meeting day, meeting tomorrow at 9:00. And now I will mention, if there are any breaks from nine, let's say they won't, and at nine you will say again: "In 15.59 poor Mr. Šincl, it was only the second time in this parliamentary term, and before he actually read the document, he couldn't, there was no meeting day, we were done, there was a pause." So immediately after about 18 hours raises an objection, yes, the objection is accepted, we can vote again, and behold, he did not pass the motion for rejection, the law progresses to second reading. And this, according to your words, with the signature, date and stamp, is confirmed by the House's legislation. Unbelievable! Let's try to figure out what actually happened on that Wednesday and how credible the explanations are. Since yesterday he has been running in the media - that is not our fault, I agree, but they interpret our words, our speeches: Friday is about to vote again at third reading. There has already been one, but there is going to be a re-vote. I've read the Rules of Procedure, found a paragraph there that says that second reading can be repeated. But we, ladies and gentlemen, repeat the third reading. None of this is permitted by the Rules of Procedure. And I would remind you that President Hamáček - I agree that under our pressure and under our arguments - has reopened the debate at third reading. So how come we repeat the third reading when the law says that only second reading can be repeated? Because someone forgot to check the vote after the vote in question, find the unlucky guy who's gonna make himself the one who voted the other way, and then they had an hour and then they figured it out. Then I heard from Prime Minister Sobotka that his Members were disoriented and did not know what they were voting for. Let's try to take the facts and see if this is more or less likely. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] So the proposal's been here for a while. Mr Urban made his amendment in writing before the start of the second reading. The House document has a number, so we all had it at our disposal. And it doesn't matter who was or wasn't at the meeting of some MP. Mr. Chairman, if you could clear me up. Prime Minister, Prime Minister, the club chairman is noisy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u5	Yes. I am asking Members to pay attention to Mr Stanjura's argument, especially the left part of the spectrum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u6	All I have to do is keep quiet. I'm not that ambitious to pay attention to my argument. Thank you. So the amendment was known. Indeed, poor Members of Parliament, this has been a change of amendments to this law! In words: there was one. One amendment! It was not a procedure for children's groups, or now, when we vote in the next discussion of the item, for example, on excise duty on tobacco products. One. Yet, many Members, according to the Prime Minister's statement, have been disoriented. Moreover, in the third reading debate, not only in the second, but in the third, this amendment is next to the debate. Not only did the petitioner make the amendment and justify it, they also spoke - and I have a tape here - for example the Minister of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic, Minister Mládek, who said: "I would like to comment briefly on the proposal of my colleague Urban. The proposal is undoubtedly interesting, there is an important idea of who pays the tax, whether it is paid by tax entities in the Czech Republic or by foreign entities. And if the foreign ones were to pay for it, it is of course beneficial for Czech domestic entities, whether they are companies or citizens. I think we should get back to this and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, prepare further analyses of the possible costs of this matter. Unfortunately, at this point, I must abstain. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you." Then another member of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Finance - I will not read the whole of his speech - has expressed a clear disagreement with the proposed amendment. The words can be interpreted in a simple way: I, the Minister of Finance, warn against the adoption of this amendment, do not vote, I am fundamentally against. Then he repeated it before the vote itself. Is it really a credible statement by the Prime Minister of our country that someone in this Chamber of Deputies could have been disoriented when there was one amendment? It was submitted on time, long before the second reading, in writing, the debate was held just before the vote, at least two members of the government spoke with a negative opinion, respectively. one stays, which is basically the same thing with the result of the vote, one with a sharp negative. I just don't believe it, but of course I have no proof of that. That is why I say that I just want to debate whether this statement is more or less likely. And since I have read the tape, I do not trust Mr Šincl, either, that what he said on the microphone to all of us - and they voted in favour of that objection except for one vote from two political parties from the opposition, only government MPs - are telling the truth. I just don't believe it. I have no evidence of that, of course not. I've only got clues for it. [[9.20 hours]] When the vote ended, not the number 65, when Mr Šincl voted yes, but when the 66 vote on the overall bill came to an end - for which I did not vote, so if the bill was a legislative scumbag, as the Prime Minister says, so let him see which clubs voted for him, we did not - Vice-President Vojtěch Filip said, "Please rest," after the vote, he first declared the vote: "Vote order number 66. Of the 167 present for 126, versus 27. The motion was accepted. I state that consent has been given to the bill." And at 12:20 p.m., Vice-President Filip goes on to say, "Please calm down. I have some factual points here. But that was probably during the vote - Mr. colleague Votava, Zaorálek and Šincl." Then he looked, saw the gesture - that's my hypothesis, that's not written - and states: "They are not. Okay." If Mr Šincl really wanted to object at that point - and was asked by the President of the Chamber of Deputies to go to the microphone, he said that he did not want - how credible is his claim that he did not have enough time to make his objection? I think all of us who know how the vote is going, we know how it was. I'll give you a working hypothesis. Mr Šincl has not been able to vote in the 20 seconds we have at our disposal. He pressed "staying" the moment the time limit had passed. What happens in that moment? The voting device, because it is the same button as the factual comment, shall record the Member's request for a factual comment. This happens very often and almost always the Members say to the President of the meeting: No, no, no, that was not factual, I am sorry. Again, I say it's a working hypothesis, it's not evidence. But I think it's a very probable and very credible explanation. No new third reading law allows. The vote on objections after 70 minutes is certainly a mockery of the word immediately. Mr. Šincl had a chance to perform. My hypothesis again: you weren't paying attention! And when you found the so-called emergency brake, you picked the wrong one. It should have been someone other than the three Members who had the chance to speak by being addressed to the President. And now I'm going back to what I started. Prime Minister Hamáček - I don't know, I have to address you so directly when you're running a meeting. On Wednesday, a debate was opened on this point. How is it that you authorityally claim that there isn't a debate on a microphone today? When did you end it? Why do you not want to allow, for example, my colleague Jana Černochová or others who, in good faith, by opening up the debate, were preparing their speeches yesterday and today, and you are denying them? You deny equal access to Members. And you as President of the Chamber of Deputies, as a representative of all of us, and I point out, and you know that from the number of votes, our club voted for you because we believed that you would negotiate a level playing field in access and procedure to all. Of course, we differ in content, we have different views on politics. But for myself and for our club, he must say that I am truly very disappointed in your attitude. I repeat, I object to the fact that you do not give equal terms to all Members. Mr Benda was the only one who has been able to speak in a debate that you have not ended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u7	I take it there's been an objection to my progress, and there's nothing we can do but deal with the opposition by voting. So I've presented what my progress will be. President Stanjura objected to my action and the House will decide by vote. That is, I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mr Stanjura's objection against my action to press the button... [[Checkout request.]] I declare this vote misguided because there was an application for a waiver. I'll check you all out. Please register with your identification cards again. [[Big noise in the hall.]] As the number of applicants has stabilized, I will re-start the vote and ask who agrees with Mr Stanjura's opposition to my procedure. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 71, registered 147, for 45, against 75. This claim was not accepted. Another priority right is the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Gazdík, followed by the President of the Laudát and the President of the Fiala Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u8	Saying a good morning this morning might be considered a mockery, so good day to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would freely follow up on the performance of my previous speaker, Mr Stanjura. He has devoted himself to a clear violation of the law, the House's Rules of Procedure Act, which is essential to this House. We, as the opposition, will probably have nothing left but to deal with this violation of the law which we Members ourselves operate, or are being run by Members of the Government Coalition, by giving it to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court to assess whether or not this is happening. I would still go about the extension, and I would like to talk not only about breaking the law, but about violating the Constitutional Court's decisions, about violating the fundamental moral principles that each of us Members promised in the pledge of a Member. What happened here on Wednesday, the fact that one Member, and now in a matter of fact, raises his hand, or 17 Members who are later called misguided and confused by the Prime Minister, for the law on excise duties, and then questions their decision an hour later, which contradicts the word immediately, I would remind Mr Šincl, as well as other Members of Social Democracy, presented this law in exactly the same wording several times during the last parliamentary term. Mr Šincl is signed by the House Press 631, which was sent to the Members on 15. 3. 2012 in exactly the same wording. In 2012, he agreed to it, and now he's wrong? [[Big noise in the hall.]] What happened? Sources from inside the Social Democracy Club clearly say that the Prime Minister yelled at the 17 Members at the Social Democracy Club, that the government would fall because of it. And only members of social democracy know I'm telling the truth. So, because of the fall of the government, one MP will rise up, sin against his long-term opinion, which he has given himself as a excise tax law, and because of that, he will publicly deny his long-standing opinion here, and we will therefore violate the House's Rules of Procedure? The Constitutional Court's decision was quoted here. The situation is It actually happened to the House in 2001, when it was in the law -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u9	Mr Vice-President, I apologize and ask my colleagues to lower their noise levels if they have anything to say to each other to do so in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Once upon a hearing of Act No. 513 of 1991, the Commercial Code, a very similar situation happened. A group of senators responded and filed a similar complaint with the Constitutional Court. And I am now quoting to you the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2 October 2002, where the Constitutional Court clearly states that you should pay attention to the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court stated: "The repeated vote, regardless of whether the amendment or the resolution with which the draft law gives its consent as a whole, is limited to two conditions: the direct opposition of the Member and the positive decision of the Chamber of Deputies on it.' And now the important thing is: "In addition, because of their nature, they can only be linked to flaws and errors in their own voting act, i.e. essentially to voting technique or to finding out the outcome of the vote, but not to the substance of the proposal under discussion, i.e. factually incorrectness." This is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which this House fundamentally violates. As Members, we are in breach of the Constitutional Court's 2002 decision. [[9.30 hours]] And besides, the vice prime minister of this government, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, as I found in the Steno Protocol, says, "I don't understand. I don't give a shit about the procedures. I don't understand." Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Parliament is not a company. We can't give a shit about procedures. We can't give a shit about the Constitutional Court's decision. We all promised in our pledge to the MP! I appeal to the coalition not to do such things. I appeal to each and every one of you, my dear colleagues, to follow the laws of the House with our conscience, as we promised the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u11	Thank you. And now, please, with priority rights to Mr Schwarzenberg's speaking desk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u12	Madam President, honourable Members. An important representative of the government coalition was the opinion that 16, 17 members of social democracy were not sensitive enough to understand what other Members here understood. After a long period of work in this Chamber of Deputies, I have to stand up for my social democratic colleagues. They're not less perceptive. They are as intelligent as the other Members of this House. So I would ask not to blame them, but also to appreciate their intelligence. Please, Madam President, tell the government politician concerned through you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u13	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Radim Fiala's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday we voted for the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. An hour and a half after this vote, the government coalition decided not to vote. It's horrible and ridiculous at the same time. The chateau is really ridiculous, and only in deep contempt of the Constitution of the Czech Republic could such a procedure be created that the citizens of our country are astonished at. Please, does anyone here realize that if we were to admit this matter, they would back--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u15	Ambassador, I apologize and ask the House once again to keep it down and hear your arguments. If you have something to say, please go to the lobby and do not disturb other colleagues who want to listen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u16	Thank you. Does anyone here realize that, if we were to allow this matter, any Member could say in retrospect that he has ever been wrong about a vote and therefore asks for it to be repeated? What's the constitutional deadline for such a mess? Is it an hour, two, ten hours or six months? Does the Constitution apply here, or are we simply beginning to change democratic rules into areas where we can basically do what we like? The nature of the party secretariats, which run the MPs here as puppets, is already exceeding all the limits. If we have decided to turn Parliament into a puppet theatre and the Constitution of the Czech Republic into a ripping calendar, then I say politely that Members of the Úsvit movement will not be present. If this vote takes place, then our Members will leave the O.R. And we consider the matter so serious that we will consider the possibility of turning to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u17	Thank you. And another registered priority right is Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I thought that this point would take place today in the following way. On Wednesday at the end of the meeting, the President of the House -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u19	Mr. Ambassador, I'm so sorry, but I have to... I don't want to name it, gentlemen, but really, if you have anything to say to each other, go to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u20	On Wednesday we concluded that the President of the House of Hamáček opened the debate. He admitted or confirmed that it was actually opened by the Minister of Finance Babiš. The debate has begun, and this morning he will come and say that we all know where we are. I can imagine spatially, and I know where I am. As far as the law procedure is concerned, I confess that I am quite somewhere else than President Hamáček. Even if the debate was reopened, there will be a full-wide debate, which means that it will be possible for all Members to come forward, then the already massaged part of social democracy will probably make a fool of itself and you will vote for the green oil without Mr Urban's amendment. And it's still a constitutional lawsuit. And as Vice-President Gazdík here has read the Constitutional Court's statement, the matter should be quite unambiguous. However, President Hamáček, I fear, is making a mistake. Unfortunately, the inappropriate procedure began on Wednesday by trying to get rid of the Member's ability to speak at third reading. Eventually, he stepped aside. Please, he is one of the country's top constitutional officials, and I think he is actually playing for his political reputation and future if he behaves like that. In his case, this is particularly disappointing for me. I don't know if I should react, but it has already been heard from the mouth of Vice-President Gazdík, on Mr Babiš's statement. He doesn't really want to rule alone. He doesn't need you here. He doesn't know our rules. He doesn't care about them. However, I would say one such analogy. Sometimes, when a minister drove at 150, 180 kilometers, the media made it a great show rather than being reprehensible. You know, we're setting a pattern for a citizen's behavior. If we do not follow the laws and rules that we have laid down, how do we want citizens to abide by them? Do you know when there was a major erosion of the state administration in the construction sector in Prague? At the time there was a black reconstruction or some reconstruction, construction, it was many years ago, still in the late 1990s, the football stadium Sparta. The mayor at the time, they met at some opening party, and everyone was having a great time, as they were, of course, outraged by the fact that a relatively large investment event took place there in black. But since then, it hasn't been fun. Since then, of course, there has been a significant softening of the conditions, bending the rules, and these consequences are fatal in many cases not only for the sightseeing zone, but for the whole of Prague. They're fatal to human relationships. We can't act like this. Mr. Gazdík here has read the Constitutional Court's statement. As far as restrictions on discussions are concerned, I am simply pointing out that there is another statement by the Constitutional Court. We have never dared, and we have spent the night here, avoiding opposition, or at all to all Members, because I assume that the Social Democrats will also come here, the 16, one by one, and they will be presenting self-defense criticism here, as is the case in China, as they doubted what idiots are, that they did not know what they were voting about. I think the interpretation towards the media from the mouth of Prime Minister Sobotka is offensive. We can't let the Prime Minister of this country say anything about us if he feels he doesn't know what he's voting on. [[9.40 hours]] I will quite openly say that I will tell you at which point I will not know what I am voting on. At the point where the Civil Service Act comes in. Which one of you will know what's going on in there? When it is not even clear which basis amendments were loaded on. And I find it hard to believe that the party's chairman in this way, through the media, insults his own MPs, and they remain silent about it. Absolutely incredible thing. However, if the President of the House of Hamáček does not change his mind, I will sign up with the priority right after the break I intend to take because it is a new reality, as this meeting began. So I just want to say that I find it hard to believe that he just doesn't know - Milan Urban, of course, is the only one who insists on his proposal, and we supported it. There is a different situation than it was during the economic crisis. There is a different situation than it was in 2006-2007. However, he was signed up for similar laws already 18. 6. 2008 one Václav Votava, rapporteur for the material around which the whole town was founded, Lubomír Zaorálek, who also appeared here against Mr Urban, Robin Böhnisch, Jeroným Tejc, Pavel Ploc and others and others. I chose only those who are here. There have been many extensive discussions, and I will remind you of them here after the break, from those years and they have been so strong, there have been sharp words, and they have been so strong that it is not possible for Members not to know. That's why I want to retreat strongly. Just like the members of the TOP 09, everyone knew what they were voting for, and there are 126 in the finals. So more than the constitutional majority voted the law as a whole and he was to go to the Senate. So I don't want to understand how we're being insulted here. Ladies and gentlemen, since I was expecting a completely different beginning of the meeting, a completely different course of this point, let me ask, on behalf of the TOP 09, for a one-hour break. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u21	Mr. Ambassador, I'm registering this, but with reference to resolution 326, I cannot grant you the recess. I've said it here before, under the provisions of Section 1 (1). 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies: The House provides that if the Chamber of Deputies accepts the objection to the vote, the vote must be repeated. Adjournment of negotiations at the moment before the vote is repeated, the announcement of a break at the request of the club is not possible. [[Top 09 protests. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] I am following the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. I will, of course, give room for any further objection. If that is the case, please ask someone to apply the objection. [[No one's checking in.]] If that is not the case, I will give the chairman of the club KSČM.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u22	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I wish you a wonderful Friday and let me say, in the context of the ongoing debate, in my opinion, a completely idle debate, sorry, a debate, a debate is not - according to some, it is not, according to some, so that I am not mistaken, I will say a debate - which is taking place when it comes to questioning right or wrong, what is immediately, what is not immediately, that it seems to me that the original intentions of the legislators are being lost and we are arguing about - in quotation marks - small things. I find the discussion rather scholastic. But we did dig around a little bit in the tapes from past election periods, and let me introduce you here to a few cases that were similar. Don't worry, it won't be long. For example, in this hall at the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 18 May 2001, it was in the debate of the press 688, which was voted in 10.50 by Amendment R1, vote No. 142, and he was accepted. Then a few other votes followed, a ten-minute break was announced at 11.20 and Mr Grůza came forward at 11.30 after the break and questioned the vote on Amendment R1. President Petra Buzková did not recognize the immediateness, but Mr Výborný, the name certainly tells you something, at the time the President objected to the procedure and it was accepted. The vote was voted on 167 votes, i.e. the challenge occurred after 24 other votes and after the break. For the sake of instruction, the amendment was adopted in repeated voting. On Thursday, January 27, 2000, Mr Sehoř, I turn to the right again, i.e. sorry, to the ODS, questioned the vote 326. [[Response to constant noise in the hall:]] The ODS might not want to hear it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u23	I am asking for peace so that Mr Kováčik can argue in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u24	Mr Sehoř questioned the vote 326 only after the launch of the next item and the rapporteur's speech on this next item, and the President, Vice-President Buzková again, did not recognise the immediateness. Mr Filip questioned its procedure and the objection was accepted. Also in the last parliamentary term, one such example, press 1003, 8 August 2013, was not adopted. Third reading, i.e. the law was not adopted. After the end of the item, Mr Vice-President of the House of Gazdík, Mr Kalousek spoke, explained to everyone what was wrong when the law was not adopted, and then another Member came forward, and only then did Mr Chalupa remember that he had voted badly and questioned his vote, i.e. after the end of the item and the appearance of other Members. It was also repeatedly voted, and the law that was rejected was finally adopted. On Friday, March 3, 2000, he was also very interesting from this point of view. The 479 vote voted on the 458, so minus 21 votes. The vote of 483 voted to challenge the vote of 441, which is minus 42 votes. The vote of 488 called into question the vote of 466, only the weak minus 22. The vote of 397 by voting 487 was also questioned. That is, on 3. 3. 2000 was questioned by the 90-vote vote back, expressed in time - that can only be estimated from the tape recorder, the number of votes is clear, but it can be estimated with precision for tens of minutes. It's about 120 minutes, or two hours. I repeat - after two hours and 90 other votes, the hall also questioned and re-voted. Don't take it I want to read you a full list here. That would be a lot wider. So I don't think that Wednesday's vote is a revolutionary precedent that should trigger some rebellion on the village and some fundamental things. There's enough evidence in those walls. I ask you nicely, I personally, perhaps many of you too, really consider this a strong bending of the Rules of Procedure Act, but let us end this discussion because, as you can see, every government coalition is doing this, and it is one of the tools to purposefully correct something that has not quite worked out. Just to conclude the penultimate sentence: Members of the KSČM Club knew what they were voting on Wednesday and will also know what they were voting on if they voted today. But if this were to continue to drag on, I would like to ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to convene the political grémium of the Chamber of Deputies and to deal with this situation with it with a cool head. And if you don't mind me asking my colleagues from ODS before they can break for their club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u25	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Mr. Chairman of ODS Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will try to follow Mr Kováčik's recommendation and approach these things with a cool head, although I must say that this is not quite easy for me. I would like to remind you that democracy is not based solely on majority decision-making and on majority mechanism, but democracy does not work as part of the characteristics of democracy is respect for the rules of the game. A consistent respect for the rules of the game and the rights of the minority. And what you're doing here right now is neither. You do not respect minority rights and violate the rules of the game. And whoever pays for it is a democratic political culture, citizens in general, but as a result, in time, you yourself who are breaking the rules. I want to ask the President of the House where we are now, what we are discussing and what is going on. On the website of the Chamber of Deputies, it says: House print 215, amendment of the Act on excise duties, third reading took place 23. 7. 2014. [[Reads from the tablet]] It's been done! Past tense! So it's not happening. There's nothing on the board. If we are not in the third reading of this law, we cannot vote on anything under Section 95 of the Rules of Procedure! So here we are having a debate that is not a debate, it is nothing, but we are not at the third reading when we can vote on the House press number 215. If we are at the third reading, then something must shine on the board, it should be listed correctly on the website of the Chamber of Deputies. That is, of course, something that is not binding, what hangs on the Internet, but it is evidence of something. And then, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would also like to say to you that the role of politics and the exercise of office include taking responsibility and decision-making. You were on Wednesday when we left here, so you opened the debate before, or the debate was opened by the speech of ministers, and we acted as if we were in the debate. You acted like we were in a debate. You've given your word, you've allowed a break from the MP's club, just all the evidence speaks of us leaving in the middle of a debate. Today we will come here, all of us Members have come to the opening of this day to debate, and you will tell us that there is no debate, because you have some paper from the House's legislators that this is not a debate. But legislation is only meant to serve you as an advisory vote, and not to use it as decisive proof that we are not in the debate when you have opened the debate yourself. So I'm asking you to explain to me, but most of all, he's wondering where we are. Is this the third reading? Is there a debate or isn't it? If it is not and is not a third reading, then we will not vote and we can address other points that await us today. Ladies and gentlemen, in the beginning, I was talking about general things. I'll go back to them again. The government's mostly large. Sometimes it is greater than the amount of the government coalition of Members, as we have just seen in the example of the President of the Communist Party's Communist Party Kováčik. You have plenty of options to achieve what you want to achieve without having to bend the rules, change the customs, break the order. I am really calling on you to reconsider your procedure once again, continue to proceed legally and respect the rules of the game that must apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u27	Mr Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u28	I have already spoken in my first speech about equal access to all Members and will give a second example today where there is no equal approach. The President of the Chamber of Deputies is as much a Member as I am or as any of us. But he has some exclusive information from the legislature, and we don't have it! And it's beating on our heads because I've got it, it's black and white, so it's clear that I'm moving on as he wants me to... If we had equal access to all the Members, the President of the Chamber of Deputies himself will declare a break, let it be delivered to the Members' clubs, give the chance for the MPs to sit down, get acquainted with the signed document, the arguments he uses in his proceedings. And then he can come back. We don't really know what he's leaning on, except he's got some paper. But the only one chosen. "All animals are equal, only some are more equal."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u29	Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, whenever there was a technical dispute about how to proceed, all of your predecessors have always interrupted the meeting, they have called for a meeting of political party chairmen and parliamentary clubs and in some way a way a way of finding a way out of the situation. This is where you were asked, I think, from my colleague Kováčik. Do you really want to mess with the fact that you're actually gluing up the House negotiations? You've been asked perfectly legitimate questions here. I see an empty board, nothing. Our Members and apparently others are reporting for discussion, you are not responding. Indeed, if there were different precedents, I do not know that anyone would question two votes back. But I'm not a House Matador, so I don't know. However, two meetings back someone is questioning, also a new situation. I asked for a break. You're shielding yourself with some House legislative material. None of us have seen them. Please, can you respond to that? I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u31	Of course, I can react the moment you end your speech. So if you still want to perform, you have room, and then, of course, I can get out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u32	Thank you. So I assume you're getting off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u33	If there is an interest in the position of the House of Legislation, then I am able to present it, so I will ask Vice-President Filip to take over the proceedings and read the opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u34	Good morning, ma'am and gentlemen. The President of the Chamber of Deputies is Mr Jan Hamáček. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u35	Thank you. I quote the opinion of the House of Legislation which I have received and which is as follows: In 2002, the Constitutional Court annulled its finding No. 476/2002 Sb. amendment to the Commercial Code due to renegotiation of the law already approved at third reading, after 14 days and revision of the previous House vote. The Constitutional Court stated, inter alia, that "each Member shall have the right to object to the result of the vote or immediately thereafter and only if the objection thus raised is accepted by the Chamber of Deputies can be repeated but not renegotiated to the bill'. [[without a revision of the previous vote]] As a result of Article 76 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, as well as of the Constitutional Court's ruling, clearly shows that the law cannot be renegotiated after the adoption of the objection, i.e. The original third reading and the debate in it cannot be " renewed ". [[let alone the submission of proposals at third reading, such as: repetition of second reading, legislative technical adaptations, withdrawal of amendments]] The renewal of the debate would mean a renegotiation of the law, which cannot be accepted, because otherwise it would actually be at risk of repealing the law by the Constitutional Court. [[See above]] [[10.00 hours]] For the sake of completeness, I note that, according to the above finding by the Constitutional Court, the vote can be repeated in these cases, not only with regard to the final vote on the law as a whole, but also with regard to amendments. Further details relating to the case under consideration may be provided. find in that decision the Constitutional Court. So much opinion of the House of Legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u36	I thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies. This is ODS Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr. Chairman, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u37	I asked for the material to be dealt with and the time to study, not that the President would read it to us with his quick case, you would applaud and we would be satisfied. It's just not like that. If the President of the Chamber of Deputies claims that he cannot declare a break, even though he did so on Wednesday afternoon and granted the TOP 09 a one-hour break and then ended the day of the hearing, then the President of the Chamber of Deputies has an instrument in case I happen to accept his arguments on how to allow the political grémia proposed by the President of the KSČM Kováčik. He may interrupt the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies, for example. until 11:30, so that we have time to meet, discuss in the clubs, get acquainted with the position. And if he doesn't, I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt the meeting until 11:30. And if you do not do so, we will not vote on it today. Don't think that... And this is the first time that colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies have refused to accept an application for debate and say - wear it up, we must not accept it. How is that possible? What kind of order is this? When we had a regular debate on Wednesday. I therefore ask for another opinion from our legislative department, because I think that this is not only for the administration of the House or the Government, but for all Members to give us a legislative description of what happened on Wednesday after Mr Šincl came up with his fairy tale, after President Hamáček acknowledged that the debate was open and that he spoke without priority rights. What happened when, in this debate, the President of the Chamber of Deputies granted a break at the request of the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club? And what's happened since we've been going a whole different way today? Again, I wanted the President to tell us who signed the position of the legislative department. We didn't know that. I hope we really get it in writing with the signature and the position. And I hope that the position will also succeed when it is subject to some investigation. But I recall the words of our President Petr Fiala, who said that there is nowhere in the law - and the Rules of Procedure is the law - that when the President of the Chamber of Deputies gets the position of the Legislative Department of the Office, this is how it must be done. There's no such thing as an excuse, a crutch, an alibi. Responsibility lies with the government coalition, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka and the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Not in the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u38	Mr President, I have noted your procedural proposal. If you agree to this, I'd like to have Vice-President Filip present, who has announced his application. I will ask if Mr Laudát wants to speak. And then, of my own volition, I would interrupt the House's meeting and call a meeting of political grémia. And so, if you agree to that, I would have you vote on your proposal and deal with it this way. So, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u39	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's no shame for some to talk like that! I made it clear on Wednesday that it was a catastrophic precedent that happened here, with the business code! And if anyone here claims that only the President of the House has the right to do so, don't be angry with me, President Fialo through Mr President, President Stanjur, or Mr Laudát. You also have a chance to read on normal messages, respectively. in the Collection of Laws, the founding of the Constitutional Court. So read the Constitutional Court find you caused in the ODS!!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u40	Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u41	Thank you for the floor. By clapping wildly, it reminds me of certain times when they clapped for November 1989. [[Dissenting remarks, noise in the House.]] I read carefully the media owned by the Minister of Finance. Of course, it certainly says the truth. Let me read you something: Syllová: Re-vote on fuel tax is contested by the Constitutional Court. According to Jindřiška Syllová, the director of the Parliamentary Institute, the repeated vote on excise duty on fuel will be a violation of the rules of the House's Rules of Procedure. Members could then challenge the vote before the Constitutional Court. Friday's meeting will begin with a re-vote on the reduction of excise duty on fuel. According to Jindřiška Syllová, the director of the Parliamentary Institute, who, among other things, helps Members with procedures, this will be a violation of the rules. The Social Democrat Ladislav Šincl called for a revote on Wednesday. But he did not do so until after an hour break, which followed after the Green Oil Act was agreed for farmers, which included a reduction in taxes and other fuels. The Member shall have the right to challenge the vote in its course or immediately thereafter. But according to Syllová, it wasn't immediately. "It is immediately before the next vote, and before the break was announced, which was not observed in this case," she said. Dissatisfied Members, according to her, could also challenge the law in the Constitutional Court. Did the President of the House of Hamáček have any doubts during Wednesday's meeting? Even by acknowledging the objection? I don't know if he made a mistake, but the interpretation was unstandard in any case. That this is a mistake, the Constitutional Court will say. It is clear that it is against habits, as President Hamáček wanted to do, that is to admit the objection only after a break for the club's meeting. I'm not surprised by the opposition that she's had big speeches against this, because it's at least unusual in recent years. Should the vote be repeated? Definitely not, it wasn't immediate. The ČSSD has announced a break, and as far as I know, she or the coalition have had the opportunity to challenge the vote immediately. If we vote again now, will that be legitimate? Legitimate is not the right word, but in any case it will be a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. For that is a special resolution which says that the questioning must be before the break. So what can we do? It was made clear that the opposition Members could, when the bill was passed, turn to the Constitutional Court with the fact that the rules of procedure in the legislative process were violated. If the Constitutional Court considered that the infringement was serious, it could declare the law invalid. But if the rules of conduct were violated, what can we do about it? There is no sanction against a bad legislative process other than the Constitutional Court. You have no other options, nor can you punish the MP. [[Big noise in the hall.]] So, is it countervailable in the Constitutional Court? Everything is attackable and I think the Constitutional Court is quite modest in this regard and does not want to interfere with the procedures. However, it is important for the democratic Parliament that procedures are followed. If they fail to comply, then the opposition is not protected by procedural law. So, in its own interest, the coalition should follow the procedures, because otherwise, the next time the opposition comes back, it will be in a weaker position. [[10.10 hours]] Should the Rules of Procedure not, therefore, change in any way or at least refine themselves? That's the problem with power. If it were generic, it could be bent in some way, but now it's said immediately. The question is, what is it immediately? It is immediately before the next vote, and before the break was announced, which in this case was not observed. Is the amendment that has been approved and, at the same time, a complaint filed for vote approved or not? If the bill as a whole has not been re-voted, it is still in the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies. If the objection is not resolved, I cannot say whether the proposal has been approved or not. So it can't be said that Members have approved a reduction in excise duty on fuel? No. So far, the vote is valid, but if there was any doubt, I wouldn't dare say that this is how it has to be. The objection to the vote was made by practice late because it was filed after the break, which is already forbidden. However, there were objections in the sense that they did not realize it, that they did not notice it, that they did not have the ballot and that it was almost on time. It's not the first time he's been such a precedent in the past. So much for the Young Front today, so I think our resistance is completely justified and you risk yourself that the Green Oil Act can be abolished over time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u42	Yes. That was Mr Laudát. In line with what I've announced, I'm going to interrupt the House's negotiations at this stage. I think by 11 o'clock, Mr. Chairman... [[To the messenger. Stanjuri.]] 11:30. Okay. So by 11:30, I'm going to ask the House Gremium to meet in my office in five minutes, and we'll continue at 11:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue because the time has passed for the House to be interrupted for the purpose of consulting its grémia. Based on the debate we had at the House's leadership, I would like to inform you that I will allow the Members who have asked to speak. The first is Mrs Jana Černochová, followed by Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, colleagues and colleagues. So let's say, in the context of this, perhaps already a substantive discussion, a few facts about green diesel, which we are debating here and which we are debating on the pages of various media, whether to return or not to return this non-systemic support method intended solely for plant production. Green diesel is a generally used tax advantage label which allowed farmers to apply for the refund of part of the excise duty on mineral oils. Specifically, in 2012, the excise duty on diesel was less than CZK 11 per litre, with farmers returning 60 per cent, or almost 6.60 per litre. For mixed diesel fuel, which consists of 30 per cent MERO, or rape-oil methyl ester, the return was even 85 per cent. In 2013, the tax relief decreased to 40 per cent and 57 per cent respectively for mixed diesel. It's completely gone this year. The decisive argument in favour of green diesel has not changed for years. We have to subsidize our farmers to make them so-called. foreign competitors did not pass over, also powerfully overrated, otherwise the Czech food will become more expensive and Czech farmers will die and consumers, consumers, will pay for it, prices will increase and imports of low quality food from abroad. If this argument is true, we should have found out this year. The green oil, or tax refund, is only abolished from the beginning of the year. Nečasův' government decided to abolish it in the context of austerity measures. The current government wants to reintroduce it, before we can verify the validity of the decisive argument for farmers. The spiral of subsidies, i.e. subsidies, will thus spin a whole new force. At a time when the refund was paid to farmers, however, both the citizen and the taxpayer suffered. The state budget cost about 1.4 to 1.8 billion per year for farmers. The next question logically follows. If we subsidize farmers, give them discounts or concessions, isn't it always at the expense of someone else? Our farmers would be at a disadvantage without subsidies? And aren't our companies competing with foreign companies at a disadvantage against companies that do business in countries where taxes are lower? Thus, according to this principle, it would certainly be good to reduce their taxes and compensate them for the disadvantage. Only crop production, including hop production, fruit production, wine-growing, growing vegetables, mushrooms, ornamental flowers, trees, medicinal and aromatic plants on land owned or leased, or on land managed for other legal reasons. This tax advantage does not apply directly to livestock production. In the media, I have noted that the spokesperson for the Minister of Agriculture Jordán claimed that - I quote - a proposal to introduce a refund of excise duty on mineral oils to persons using these oils for primary agricultural production was submitted together with an updated analysis of the effects of the abolition of green diesel for agriculture in the Czech Republic. End of quote. However, the Authority was first reluctant to provide a new analysis. If you look into it, you'll understand why. It is a five-page document which lacks the date of the copy and the author's name, summarises the current development in the green diesel settings and only provides a statistical overview of its use. It focuses on the claim of a competitive disadvantage. Only Slovakia, Austria, Bulgaria and the Netherlands do not apply a similar advantage in the European Union this year. And on the argument that more expensive diesel would motivate farmers to further expand rape and wheat fields, with less fuel going through their cultivation than, for example, in the case of ocopanins - citations from the report - the abolition of the refunded excise duty on mineral oils threatens to reduce the overall profitability of agricultural production - the analysis claims. Older and more elaborate studies, which the Ministry claims to have used to produce its analysis, are quite different, and its conclusions differ completely with today's analysis. The report entitled Evaluation of the impact of the abolition of green oil on agriculture in the Czech Republic, presented last September by the Institute of Agricultural Economy and Information, calls into question the right of tax relief. I guess that's why the material can't be found on official legislative websites. Last year's study rejects the argument about the impending decline in the competitiveness of Czech farmers, stresses cheaper labour and lower price of land in the Czech Republic. To the farmers' lamentations that they subsidize the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure by paying excise duty, this, by the way, emphasizes the current analysis of the Ministry, reminds us that only about 9 percent of the excise tax is directed to the fund. From the accounting point of view, an interesting reference is made to the non-compliance between the development of diesel consumption in plant production and the quantity of diesel to which entitlement to excise refund has been claimed. While total consumption increased by 4 per cent between 2007 and 2012, green diesel swelled by 10 per cent. Adding that the rotational area in the Czech Republic has decreased over this period -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u45	My colleague, I am so sorry to interrupt you, but I ask all the gentlemen to settle their affairs outside the O.R. so that the MP doesn't have to yell at you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. The rotational area in the Czech Republic has decreased from 2.59 million hectares over the period to 2.48 million hectares. In addition, agricultural machines are modernised and more care is taken for lower consumption. How, then, can we explain the increase in green diesel consumption? Either a group of farmers who are asking for a refund or we are dealing with hidden tax evasion. Both, of course, are possible. Escapes through green oil are not easy to detect. Since 2008, refunds have not been linked to consumer standards, farmers have based their claims on proof of purchased fuel and technical data on consumption. We don't have to copy Germany and paint the green oil. Other suggestions have also appeared, for example, to check the GPS on machines and to calculate consumption. What, then, can we conclude on this proposal? Andrej Babiš's position on green oil is easy to verify. In the web archive of Czech Television there is still a two-year-old record from the show You have a word with Michaela Jílková, during which the skeptical president of the Association of Private Agriculture, Josef stehlík, and chief of the Free Mr.Petr Mach, who reminded Babiš of the profitable wheel of Agrofert in the show. During the harvest of the rape plan, the group will demand oil returns and will also produce subsidised biodiesel from the crops, the higher share of which the current minister lobbied in 2010 through an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. His delay in voting on this proposal in the government therefore sounds really hypocritical, as well as his media statement that ČSSD colleagues are incompetent, do not understand this proposal, and he defended his position in the debates in the Events and Comments. [[11.40 hours]] I think that all ČSSD colleagues who voted in favour of Mr Urban's amendment are no newcomers in this House. They are experienced Members who know how the Chamber of Deputies is discussing bills. They know at what point they can apply any comment on the hearing process. So I can reasonably believe that on these seventeen colleagues during those long evenings, someone was actually kneeling over them and making them change their position in a very rude way. I am very sorry for Mr Šincl, who I respect, for having to do something that sounds two words in front of the entire nation and that the first word is useful. Green diesel is a non-systemic type of subsidy where one group of entrepreneurs, persons operating primary plant production on own land or leased land, is favoured by other groups of entrepreneurs, including other entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector itself. Therefore, I and my colleagues from the ODS cannot support such a proposal, although we believe that a reduction in the excise tax would be quite right, this would, by the way, be reflected very positively in the purchase prices of the fuel of police officers, the Army of the Czech Republic and the entrepreneurs themselves. But unfortunately, the proposal is not designed that way. That is why the Civil Democratic Party supported Mr Urban's proposal, but it did not support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention and thank you for giving me the opportunity to read you my position here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u47	Next in line, Mr. Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, naturalists in ancient times, when they could not explain some of the incomprehensible phenomena to them, used such a term as horror vacuum, the fear of an air vacuum that nature has and which it seeks to fill. Well, we're also here today trying to fill some House legislative vacuum, air-empty. You coalition officials, so that you would like to flush this unpleasant long-term state for you as quickly as possible, with your new vote to end and move on to the next thing. Of course, we must draw attention to this situation. And I myself more strongly believe that I am an old municipal politician. I became a representative in 1990 in the town of České Budějovice, and I was also the governor for eight years, so I know the local and regional policy well. At this level, voting on proposals is basically one of the highlights, one of the most important moments of negotiations. The procedure also depends, of course, on how large the self-governing unit is, how great the village is. In small villages, when the mayor wants to push for a plan, he has to make a deal with his representatives first, and if he doesn't have a deal, then he has to redo the plan, abandon it, go some other way. In larger cities or at regional level, there is already a kind of big coalition policy - the opposition. The coalition comes up with proposals, they are voted on, and sometimes the proposal just doesn't pass. Perhaps sometimes the fact that coalition representatives are few in the hall, and the opposition, which often supports good proposals along with the coalition, leaves their hands down and does not vote. But that's it. There's no second attempt as high as a jump. There must be a way to find this good proposal, or a proposal that the coalition wants to enforce, approve and propose at any cost, at another time, at another time, even in another constellation. I remember an example of this when a controversial proposal was approved in the South Bohemia Regional Council concerning the development of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant. At the time, apparently by mistake, the representative voted for the KSČM, but this proposal was simply approved by his one vote, lasted until the political situation, the situation in question required its change. Not that anyone got up and said, I want to vote again, I was wrong. It's just not like that in life. I think the representatives, the thousands of representatives, if they were to watch this, in my opinion, a really awkward attempt to bring the situation back, to go back in time, as if nothing had happened, and try again, they would have really, really, really, really criticized us. And I, ladies and gentlemen, join the criticism very strongly. Colleagues from the Czech Social Democratic Party are also old parliamentary practitioners who have a certain thick skin and bear this condition. But to whom I wonder and who I particularly criticize, you, Members of the YES movement, who have joined Parliament with a whole series of speeches on how you want to change the parliamentary procedure, how you want to be different, new. And suddenly you join this undignified comedy and vote again as if nothing had happened. For that, with all due respect, I will allow you to be directly criticized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u49	Now, please, to Mr. Petr Bendl's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I, too, would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak, because restricting the right of Members to speak is not a sign of the quality of democracy, and I hope that this is the last time we have had such an incident here, and that Members will always have a chance to express themselves, of course, within the framework of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, because this is not possible otherwise. I think that would signal out there that there is a violation of democracy, and I am convinced that no one wants this. I wanted to make a comment on the speech by Mr Andrej Babiš, Vice-President of the Government, who first said in his comment on the amendment in question that he did not agree with the MEP's proposal for social democracy, and argued that there was an incompatibility of the amendment with the law of the European Union. He also spoke of a negative budgetary impact, which is strange for a person who claims to be right-wing. I think we should simply reduce, say, citizens' spending on the functioning of the state and within the functioning of the state, we should look for all possible reserves so that the state is cheap and serves as many citizens as possible. And then the Deputy Prime Minister spoke, and I would like to quote: 'Mr. Member' - that is to say, Mr. Urban - 'this is where he supported an absolutely irresponsible proposal that we would deprive the state budget of 14 billion, which you will fill up for the companies that distribute fuel'. I just can't draw attention to the contradictions that are in this sentence. The first contradiction is the 14 billion, because we've all witnessed a debate where the Prime Minister said there's a year-old analysis, and there's no other, new numbers, and at the same time in the debate, he said that the citizen won't save anything. [[11.50 hours]] I just want to remind you: There is therefore no current analysis, but at the same time the state pays through the public administration, through the Police of the Czech Republic, through the work of firefighters, through road administrations and other and other institutions spends huge amounts on the purchase of fuel, and in this case it would also save. And it would be worth knowing what the impact is. If the Finance Minister doesn't know him, it's sad. I think it's a good thing that we tried to do something like this because unlike green diesel, where it really isn't clear how much diesel we pour into the tractor and how much we pour into the car and what's going on with the diesel, it's almost unchecked, so in this case, equal access applies for everyone. We will support not only farmers, but basically all institutions, citizens, natural persons, legal persons, etc. And maybe we'll support the growth of the economy. I am deeply convinced of this, which is why I voted in favour of the proposal. And there's no question about who we're actually helping. Protectionism, when once pouring money to firms doesn't matter because it is green oil, and it is in the area of agriculture, where I don't even want to remind you who was all here in conflict of interest as a person sitting in the Boards of Agrofert and so on, which he should at least say here: I am in conflict of interest and I am reporting it because our companies will draw in the order of tens of millions of crowns green diesel, yet I support it. I think it was supposed to, and it didn't. But when it comes to reducing excise duty for all citizens without distinction, there I am already fundamentally opposed, and I argue in my opinion completely irrelevant. I think it was supposed to be here. Everyone feel the way you feel. What was happening from the point of view of the procedure was just an extra and certainly sad look at us from the outside. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u51	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am very pleased that after hours of debate on the subject, yes, no, I have the opportunity to speak now. There are two reasons to talk. One is an evaluation of the procedural state in his custody of whether democracy actually works as such in this country. The second reason is meritorically relevant, because the question of green oil, the question of reducing fuel tax, these are issues that are really meritorly related, and it needs to be dealt with. I agree with what was said here. I am an old young municipal politician, and I also have my experience in managing a city, in managing a council meeting, and I can't imagine that something like this could happen here at the council. I have two problems in this matter. Of course, I, like all of you, have made a pledge to a Member who, among other things, also assumes certain ethical and moral abilities and obliges us to keep what we promised our constituents. So then I can't understand how it's possible that there's going to be sentences here that obviously say that one of us isn't telling the truth. The contradiction is that we hear 'I misvoted', and the voices are saying 'it is not possible for such a result to pay, we need to do something about it, because it means a loss of 14 billion for us'. Where's the truth? Was the Member mistaken or was he forced to find a mechanism to change the vote? I don't want to talk about the fact that the word immediately has only one philosophical meaning. But I'm asking you how to pick a person who's gonna sign up to say "I misvoted" and solves the problem of all the others. Not to mention that one vote on the vote doesn't change a thing. That vote was practically a constitutional majority. The other thing that really bothers me as Members, but it bothers me as a citizen of this country that the President of one party will say that he has 17 confused Members in the Chamber of Deputies who don't know what they're doing, they don't know what they're voting for, they haven't read the material, they haven't met him, they haven't taken time to meet him, and they're just confused. Where is the Member's responsibility for what he promised to do in his parliamentary vows? How is it that they allow themselves to be confused, not know the material they vote on? How can he afford to vote if he doesn't know anything about it? He should've stayed. He should've asked for time to change his mind. But he certainly can't vote. Such a Member simply fails to fulfil his parliamentary pledge because he does not act responsibly towards his constituents. These are the things I wanted to hear, because I do not agree with such procedures. I went into politics for very serious reasons because I was convinced that politics had to be changed, and suddenly I'm sitting here, and the politics is worse than it was before. And that's what bothers me. I'll always speak against it. I'll always want it to be said here so I can say this. The second thing I want to say is the question of green oil. I'm really mature enough to remember colored gasoline, I remember heating diesel. All attempts to create a preference for something or someone always end up in the pocket of those who can put it in them. It is never possible to do such things selectively only for one group or for one appeal. It just doesn't work. Green oil didn't work through all the checks they did to us while we were driving. We had to stop and check on Daddy's gas in the car. We all know how it was for diesel, who had diesel, so he bought it just because it was going to be fuel oil. And all the funds went somewhere else. And the same thing with all due respect for farmers will happen there. Among them are those who use the green diesel in their diesel cars. The second thing that bothers me is that in one law we make an exception for one thing, and on the other hand, we do not want to agree to reduce excise duty. If it goes down, it'll really be what's fair in that state, it'll be for everyone, there won't be any preference. And as it has already been said here, fuel consumption in the state sector is huge. It will have a huge impact on the management of all those who have to use means of transport or fuel machines for their activities. But not only for entrepreneurs, for companies, for the state, for the army, for the police, for ambulances, but also for every citizen. And that's where I see how we should vote in this House. We should strive to ensure that the laws we adopt are equal and equal for all. Please don't tell me that's not what the ODS said before. I'm saying what I'm saying now. I say this for the current opinion of the ODS. We have learned from all the mistakes that have been made, and that opinion is absolutely clear at this stage. We want the funds of the state to be spent in vain, we want us not to burden our citizens with unnecessary taxes. That's what I wanted to hear here. And once again, I give consideration to everyone to consider that they voted for some constitutional law by a constitutional majority, and now it is voted by the coalition's votes. It's just a demonstration that democracy really isn't a decent girl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u53	Have a good noon. Thank you, honourable Member. Another enrollment is Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr Blažek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u54	Hello, thank you for your word. I think we've been here for hours, maybe we're discussing a procedure for lawmaking. And now I'm not coming here to judge. In short, there is a majority that wants to make a decision, and the dispute is and will be about whether the procedure has been maintained. And I think it would be good for someone to clarify what can and can't be done in the procedure. This means that I would like to inform in my speech what a constitutional complaint should look like which, I suppose, will be given in this matter. It must be written in Solomon in such a way that there is no uncertainty as to what taxes this state collects. This means that such a constitutional complaint should focus only on the process of creating the law, and that is not what I think it is, and now I would like to say it for colleagues from TOP 09 that it is not our purpose to create some legal uncertainty about what taxes are, but the purpose of such a constitutional complaint must be to make it clear in the future what is possible and what is not possible in that process. The second thing that needs to be clarified is the factual situation that we have been experiencing here for the past two or three days, when I belong to those who do not believe in the option that there has been a common challenge to the vote, but rather I believe that there has been a situation where Mr Babiš has pushed Prime Minister Sobotka, Prime Minister Sobotka has pushed the MP's club to the ČSSD, and we are in the situation in which we are. The Constitutional Court, if the constitutional complaint is made, will have the only way to get an objective truth, and this will be an interrogation of all members of the ČSSD club, who will have to appear publicly before the Constitutional Court and describe the course of their membership club, which took place on Wednesday. I understand that many ČSSD Members do not speak on this issue at this plenary because it is a politically elected tactic, but they should and will have to tell the truth at the Constitutional Court. I would like to inform you fairly here that if this constitutional complaint occurs, I think that this is what should be required of the Constitutional Court, that is to say, interrogating all members of the ČSSD club, including the club of the ministers present and the Prime Minister, because it is the only way that the Constitutional Court can assess whether or not this law was based on rules. Finally, the constitutional complaint will not be aimed at creating tax uncertainty, but will lead to finding out really and objectively what happened here for the three days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u55	I thank Mr Blažek. Another enrollment is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u56	Mr Vice-President, Madame Members, I want to say that I am a newcomer in this Chamber of Deputies. And on the other hand, I'm literally staring at what's going on here. I've only had a second week. In the media, we have read the information that the opposition wants to surround this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I must add that the extension of this meeting is due to the government coalition until now. I would like to comment on the procedure for approving this House's press. I do not understand this, and I think it is a flagrant violation of the constitutional order that, on a properly approved law, or on a single amendment, and subsequently on the press itself, when there was a possibility, and the President had a further word and gave the word, even before the intermission was given, was the possibility to object to the vote. This didn't happen, the Social Democracy Club took a break and we have some idea what was going on at the club. After more than an hour's break, Mr Šincl stood up and questioned his vote. I would like to quote Article 26 of our Constitution: Members and senators carry out their mandate in person in accordance with their promise and are not bound by any orders. We today in the vote, if it comes to it, in the repeated vote on the same bill, that is, the decision will be made here again on the matter that has already been decided, the law that has been approved again, and we will see if 17 Members of Social Democracy have followed the guidelines of the leadership of social democracy. And here I see a clear contradiction with Article 26, when Members are to follow their consciences and are not to be bound by instructions. Because Mr Šincl spoke not immediately after the vote, but in connection with the negotiations of the Social Democracy Club. This means that it can be deduced that he spoke on the basis of instructions he received from his own political party. In this I join Mr Blažek, who has already mentioned the submission of the constitutional complaint. I will also join her after the legislative process has been completed, if necessary. So I'm laying down this procedure, and anyone here can say that they've already happened in the past, so it's wrong in the past, and it's wrong in the present. It is not possible to say - it has happened to us twice before, we have bent the Constitution, we have bent the laws, we say to the citizens of the Czech Republic: the procedures are useless, the laws may be broken, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies may be broken, the Constitutional Court's findings may be violated. So, of course, this is wrong, and I would also ask the House legislation to make a specific statement on this matter. Today we were able to read the opinion of the director of the Parliamentary Institute, who questioned the procedure proposed here. And I say for myself, and apparently for colleagues from TOP 09, that we will sign up for a constitutional complaint, and other Members should sign up for it, because we really should know what is and is not possible, because in the future, the very question of the principle of parliamentary democracy and the way in which laws are passed in this country could be called into question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u57	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. Next for the debate is Mrs Putnová, followed by Mr Kučera. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u58	Good noon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In the past days, we have spent tens of minutes discussing the procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Yet there was not something I would like to point out here, namely the phenomenon that the principle of management has been introduced into the Chamber of Deputies. The chief, in this case, Vice Prime Minister Babiš, sought the result of the vote, and when he was contrary to his intention, he pushed for a new vote through social democracy. That's how it works at the firm. But that is not how it works and should not work in parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy has mechanisms that are lengthy, require patience, require action, but that is why they are so informal for a number of reasons in order to prevent the force and power enforcement of individuals' views. I would like to address my colleagues from social democracy through the President: you are not an employee of the company. You're not subordinates. You are democratically elected legislators who will answer to their constituents. At least until Wednesday, I thought that was the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u59	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Another envoy is Mr Michal Kučera, followed by Mr Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u60	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on two things here, that is, in the first part, on the very green diesel, and then on the second part, on the way we discuss this point. There are supposed to be two reasons for introducing green diesel. The first point is the competition of the European Union and the subsidization of agriculture in other countries, which, of course, can be agreed with. The second reason is that agricultural machinery is supposedly not on public roads. The first reason, of course, can be solved by direct subsidies, which is no reason to introduce some kind of colored diesel. Let me take a closer look at the other reason, which means that agricultural machinery doesn't travel on public roads. They follow these public roads - it seems quite logical, except that only farmers in plant production use the green diesel, such as those who grow subsidised rape on their endless pools. But why should only farmers have green oil? The same claim for a lower tax could be made by foresters according to this logic. They work in the woods, the technique mostly moves on special purpose roads, and the oil could also be labeled green. The forest is definitely greener than yellow rape. A tax discount could also be paid by builders. Construction tech doesn't go on a journey as long as a year. And when it comes out, it's for the purpose of repairing the path concerned. Therefore, they could have another bonus for repairing the trip. Construction machines do not destroy roads, but paradoxically fix them. Only the oil would probably not be green anymore, but maybe gray. According to the same logic, we can talk about, for example, mining machines that work in quarrys. That's where the oil might be black, for example. I don't want to wonder who else could demand such a favorable diesel and what color it should be. I would also like to point out who decides to introduce green diesel. The owner of Agrofert Babiš, who by voting on green oil, passed on a small house the size of several tens of millions of crowns. Minister Babiš even brought the grant circus to complete perfection. He sows subsidised rape on the field, from which he manufactures subsidised biofuels in his chemicals to add them to the subsidised green oil, which he pours into his agricultural machinery, so that he can sow subsidized rape again. [[Applause from TOP 09 and ODS.]] So this circle is closed. That's a real grant circus, and some might even say that Minister Babiš has been able to commit himself to the state budget. And unfortunately, I must say that such a small home, although considerably smaller, was played literally for his family company and Minister of Agriculture Jurečka. Now, of course, I would also touch on the vote and what actually happened here in the past few hours. You, by voting to challenge Mr Šincl's vote, have brutally hacked the democratic system. Not Mr Šincl, but those who, in their vote, allowed the second vote to be repeated, i.e. members of the ČSSD, YES and the People's Party. An important vote has been lost - allowing you to repeat the vote after more than an hour - means that we can now call into question any vote in the future. An important vote on a few votes has been lost - don't hang your heads, we already have a precedent here, just when the club's chairman takes an hour's break after the vote, during which he can persuade other Members to vote otherwise, or even quickly allow missing Members to arrive at the vote, thereby reversing the second vote. Even Prime Minister Sobotka and Minister Babiš confirmed that the reason for the new vote was the wrong decision to vote in favour of the law. You know, at this point, I'm wondering how the anti-corruption funds, Transparency International and other civil society activists are looking at the whole thing. Because what happened here on Wednesday at the House meeting is a brutal trample on the democratic process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u61	I thank the honourable Member. Another enrollment is Mr Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After that, Mr. Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am quite glad, frankly, that I was not able to speak here yesterday, because I can very well follow up from this discussion on what has been said here, or refer to it, especially what Mr Bendl and, above all, Mrs Putnová and now my previous speaker, Mr Kučera, have said. I want to submit that the debate on whether or not to introduce green diesel is politically relevant. It is a decision whether to prefer a certain group of entrepreneurs at the expense of all others or at the expense of others. And it's a political decision. Like the legitimate political decision, it is necessary to introduce positive discrimination against certain citizens of the Czech Republic at the expense of all others, for whom it is negative discrimination. Like introducing, for example, some gender quotas that discriminate against members of that negender and ultimately turn against those who should have been helped in some way. These are all political issues where this part of the Chamber of Deputies seems to disagree with this part, but it is legitimate. However, the problem of this standard lies somewhere else. It's not a matter of matter and politics, but it's a moral problem. The proposal submitted is deeply amoral, especially and in particular by the person submitting the petitioner. What's this all about? What are we supposed to approve now? Well, it's obvious! Pass the green oil to Agrofert, the owner of which is the Minister of Finance Mr. Andrej Babiš vulgo Bureš. We, the TOP 09 and the starosta, have been talking since the beginning of this government's existence about the fact that the Minister of Finance is in a colossal, gigantic conflict of interest that is unprecedented in the history of parliamentarianism. And now, please, this conflict of interest appears in its full nudity. To make it clear what this term means, for the left part of the spectrum - Marxist jargon is called "materialized." [[Laughter from TOP 09 and ODS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, this is an entirely obvious abuse of the authority of a constitutional officer who is trying to benefit by his actions. [[With emphasis:]] And that is why I call on the Attorney General, Mr. Ištván, to wake up. [[Applause from TOP 09 and ODS.]] I call on law enforcement authorities to start acting immediately - that is, immediately - to act. I call on the Home Secretary, who is sitting here and is not here now, if the Police of the Czech Republic may have their ears pinned, to ask the police president to unplug them. I call on Minister Válková, the Minister of Justice, to raise the prosecutor's office. And I have a rather sad challenge to those voters of the YES party who have fallen for the password to run the state as a company. Please wake up and realize what this means. Yes, Mr. Babiš wants to run the state as a company, but he forgot to tell you that it means running his state as a company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u63	Thank you, Mr Korte. Another envoy is Mr Fiedler, followed by Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good noon, colleagues and colleagues. So I would like to speak briefly here in this discussion. I would like to say what has been said here several times. Confirm we're joining this. That we're rejecting this procedure that's being proposed here. This procedure, which is at the limit of constitutionality. We disagree. We did not go into politics to say that something similar has happened in the past, so we do not intend to accept it in this new Chamber of Deputies, we do not intend to join or respect this procedure. I would like to ask Mr Šincl here, through Mr President, to make a clear statement as to whether he refused to make an offer on whether he wanted to speak, what was the reason why he refused when he was asked whether he wanted to speak or not. And then I would also like to hear from him the answer to why, after the vote, it was glowing that he was making a point of fact. We Members all know how it happens that when one of the Members votes to abstain, which is, in order to familiarise itself with it, it is possible in two ways. For one thing, he won't press any button, or he'll press the "staying the vote" button. And it often happens that this button, this signal will then remain lit, as if it is reporting to a factual remark, to which it was then asked by the Chairs after this vote, whether they are referring to a factual remark or whether it was a mistake and should delete this application. So I would like to hear the answer from Mr Šincl. The Dawn Members' Club refuses to participate in two possible new votes. We refuse to legitimize this new vote. We will leave the Chamber of Deputies. And then, as this vote goes on and what happens next, we will consider, after consulting the MP, whether we too will join the constitutional complaint, which we do not rule out at the moment. Finally, one thing I would like to say is that it is very sad that this House has already approved something that citizens would welcome, so that it was an accident. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u65	I thank Mr Fiedler. Another envoy is Mr Černoch, followed by Mr Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u66	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I also want to thank you for the opportunity to perform. I don't want to address the correctness or incorrectness of the law that has been discussed here, because it certainly can be dealt with, but I have to say it's sad that, instead of dealing with whether the law is right or wrong, there's a matter that I personally find to be a comedy. Because, don't be mad at me, I'd like to know how many people in this House and how many people who watched it in the papers or outside, believe that when what happened, my colleague Šincl comes along and says, "I was wrong, and it's really true. I really wonder how many people here believe that this is how it was, that it just wasn't purposeful. And even though they may have been practices or practices, I think that when it comes to dealing with how this entire term works, that the situation is improving, that people are to be shown that morality still has its place, and I mean that now, this comedy is definitely not the way to do it. Because when something isn't what we think it is, we're just gonna do it one more time, so it doesn't feel like a democratic process, like a procedure that is constantly being said here that everything is supposed to be the way it's supposed to be. So once again, I would just like to ask if you all really believe that this was not a purpose and that at this point, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies did not just bend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u67	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Another enrollment is Mr.František Vácha. After that, with priority rights, the President of the Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u68	Dear fellow citizens, this House, or its coalition section, has decided to violate the laws of this republic! The laws that she creates and that you have to obey! From this place, I beg you, do not follow the example of this coalition part of our House. Please keep following our laws! Please, let us at least remain a legal state thanks to you. [[He speaks loudly, urgently. From the left side of the hall: "We heard the word of God." The speaker takes off his jacket.]] I am absolutely disgusted with this part of our House. I don't intend to break laws like you do. So if you're gonna vote for it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u69	Ambassador, I'd rather not go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u70	I hereby announce that in protest, I continue to refuse to take part in the vote during today's meeting. If you vote for it, I can no longer respect you. Punk is not dead!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u71	Thank you, Mr Vách. President of the Civil Democratic Party, Petr Fiala, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two more comments on the position of the Civil Democratic Party both on the content of the law and I would like to announce how we will act in the vote which, unfortunately, is about to happen. As far as the content of the law is concerned, it is true that the Civil Democratic Party voted in favour of Mr Urban's amendment, but it also voted against the overall text of the Parliamentary press 215. There is no contradiction, and there is no attempt in this to complicate the situation of a government coalition, to sow a contradiction in the ranks of social democracy or anything like that. We made this decision because we believe that such a course of action is factually correct. Green oil, and I think my colleagues expressed it convincingly, is an unjustified advantage for some. And if you look at how the green oil was pumped, you'll see clearly. You curse farmers here, but 42 percent of the farmers, especially the small ones, could not, could not, did not want to take advantage of this alleged advantage at all, so it is an advantage for some farmers and, above all, for large farms. That is why the Civil Democratic Party cannot vote in favour of something like this. Another thing is Mr Urban's proposal to reduce excise duty on fuel. Unlike Prime Minister Sobotka, I think that Mr Urban knows what he is talking about and knows what he is proposing. After all, I would just like to remind myself, for social democracy also the Minister of Industry and Trade. The proposal is not ill-advised, the proposal is very reasonable and it is factually correct. And by the way, if you'd like to accuse us of the purpose of our negotiations, let me remind you that I was the one who proposed, as an alternative to green oil, as soon as we started discussing it, a better solution to the reduction in excise duty on fuel. So we are completely consistent in this matter. [[12.30 hours]] By the way, I also noted the statement by Prime Minister Sobotka that the Social Democrats did not understand the matter, they did not know what they were voting on. So allow me to say something to those members of social democracy, but also to all others who do not know, about excise duty on fuel. The price of fuel at the petrol station includes both the price of the product, excise duty, value added tax and, of course, the distribution margin. And now - and I hope that those Members of the left-wing government coalition who claim to be right-wing - the excise duty plays the following role: If I have the final price of gasoline of 36 crowns, the excise duty is roughly CZK 13, the value added tax is slightly over CZK 6, the tax total 19 crowns and the price without tax of the 36 crowns is CZK 17. So if you do the math, the tax on the price of petrol is more than half, i.e. about 53 percent. And you may recognize that this is not such a problem and that it is actually right to do what Mr Urban has proposed and to reduce the excise duty. It is not even true that if we do this, and the Minister of Finance argued that the end price would not be reduced. According to all calculations, the end price will decrease for many reasons. At the same time, it is also not true that the impact on the state budget would be some 14 billion, or how much did the Minister of Finance say at the same time admitting that there is no analysis. So if we're able to think like economists just by making a simple calculation, but we don't have an analysis, we're not able to take into account other factors, so don't be mad at me, then you're really not in your seats. We must take into account other factors that will trigger the reduced price. Let us remember that the Czech Republic has e.g. a relatively dense network of filling stations, so that there will be or there will be competition, which will lead to the end price being pushed down. The state budget revenue gap cannot simply be estimated in this way, because lower fuel costs may be reflected in the price of other products that need to be affected by high transport costs. Some arguments that must be taken into account have also been made: lower state spending, lower transport costs, lower České dráhy expenditure. It's all gonna play a role. For example, according to the studies available to us, such as the University of Economics study, says that the percentage reduction in fuel prices as a result will increase consumption by more than one percent. So it is absolutely not true that the direct impact of the reduced excise duty on fuel would be 14 billion. The crown, as the Minister of Finance tried to tell us quickly. So much for the contents of the law. I hope that now, too, Members of Social Democracy understand what they will vote on. That they know the role of taxes on petrol prices and diesel prices, and that the Prime Minister will no longer suspect them of being in their seats. Let me also clarify the following meeting of Members of the Civic Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not caused this situation. We don't build here, we don't make complications. You're doing the complications by violating the rules of conduct. That's very important for you to realize. If anybody's building up here, it's the government coalition's violation of the rules of the game and the House's Rules of Procedure. It's not our fault that Prime Minister Sobotka doesn't run the government or his MP's club. That's his problem, which you don't blame us for. And since we do not agree with the next vote, we believe that the next vote is simply not meant to take place, so for this reason, Members of the Citizen's Democratic Party will not take part in the vote or the amendment or the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And another word has been asked by Mr. Koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was not able to do so, and after the moralist speeches of the TOP 09 representatives, I looked at the screen record and found my speech from September 1, 2011 at 14.30. I said at the time: 'Mrs President, ladies and gentlemen, today before the midday break, the number 23 vote took place at 12.48. The proposal was not adopted and my colleague Pecková called into question the vote with the fact that she had a cross at the junk, but she voted yes. After watching the footage of camera number 3 and 6 from the above-mentioned time, I note that at the time of the vote, Mrs Pecková was not present in the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. I ask that the competent authorities of the Chamber of Deputies deal with this." That was last term. This is how the former coalition promoted its interests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u75	I thank the honourable Member and we will therefore now proceed to a procedure which will mean that, given that we have complied with Mr Šincl's objection to vote 65 and 66, we will repeat these votes. I am still registering Mr Laudát's request. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I object to the President's procedure. After the vote, I would still technically ask that we be given a few seconds space so that we can leave - of course I am speaking now for the TOP 09 - from the voting room, because we will not participate in this black Friday of democracy. Lenin once said that the truth is class, so you can vote your grandmother-Saturday truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u77	I'm registering an objection to the procedure I've announced. We will decide on this objection by voting. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mr Laudát's opposition to the President's procedure, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 72, registered 154, for 34, versus 74. Objection has not been accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote 65. I'll check you all out, please, for a new registration. And once the number of Members on the board is settled, I will leave the vote, and I will therefore also accept Mr Laudát's request so that they can leave the Chamber of Deputies. [[Members of the TOP 09, ODS and most Members of the Dawn leave the Chamber.]] [[After a while.]] The number of Members present on the board has settled and we will therefore vote. An objection was raised to vote number 65, which was the vote on Mr Urban's amendment. We will therefore vote once more on this amendment. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mr Urban's proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 73, registered is 111, for 26, against 62. This proposal has not been adopted. [[12.40 hours]] We would therefore now repeat the vote number 66, which is the vote on the whole bill. I will just read the resolution voted on: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, pursuant to House Press 215." I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting time is 74, registered is 113, for 109, against no one. I note that this resolution has been approved. I'm registering Mr. Sklenák's request for a speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the liberty of speaking with the procedural proposal to agree, in accordance with Section 95a, that for the remainder of this extraordinary meeting, the negotiating days for the third reading will be Tuesday and Thursday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u79	Yes. This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. I'm opening the vote -- and I'm asking who's in favour to press the button and raise his hand. [[Members of the ODS and TOP 09 enter the hall with dissenting gestures and shouts: No!!!]] Who opposes this proposal? [[Fun and applause in the ranks of ČSSD and YES.]] The vote is number 75, 112, for 75, against 10, and I note that this proposal has been adopted. And I have Mr Stanjura's request here. I ask for peace and I ask Mr Stanjura to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u80	We've witnessed unfair negotiations. It's dishonest and unsportsful, and then the Prime Minister complains that we're attacking him. I think we made it clear to you on the political grémium when we made a deal that we would return immediately after the vote. By the time we got back, you'd like to have fun... [[From ČSSD: It was not immediately.]] It was not immediately, I agree, or it was immediately, unlike that Wednesday - you took advantage of the situation and you think how you helped yourself. I'd like my colleagues and colleagues to bring me mineral water in time. I don't like doing this, but I have to. I think that what the President is doing at this meeting, or this week, to be precise, he really goes beyond, and every action is causing a reaction, as we have learned many in elementary school. And since we're going to adopt the wrong Civil Service Act... [[Mr. Bendl brought a bottle of water to the pitch.]] Thank you. Many of us know the British series Sure, Minister!, which describes the infirmities when such a law is written wrong. Funny, but really awkward. But since I was unable to ask all the Members and Members if they knew this excellent work, I decided to introduce you to them. Let's start with the editors' comment. These are the ones who edited the design of this book, which has two parts. Editors say: We must begin by saying a few points about what principles and procedures - and this is extremely necessary today - what principles and procedures we used when we shortened James Hacker's multi-volume journals with millions of words into one relatively short work. So, thanks to the kind approach of editors, I'm not going to read James Hacker's multi-volume journals, the work has only two parts because of their self-sacrificing activities. We need to go back to the moment James Hacker started keeping a diary from the moment he became a cabinet member, which means that he became a member of the government in the Czech Republic to get closer to the political realities. He dictated his records to a tape recorder, sometimes day after day, but more often during the weekends he spent in his constituency, which many of us know. We not only spend weekends in the constituency, but also Mondays when, as we know, the Chamber of Deputies does not sit. I would ask the President to arrange for me in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u81	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I ask all Members to take their seats in the Chamber. [[There are more Members reporting for the floor.]] I'm registering you... Aha! Mr President, there is only a request to challenge the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u82	I'm sure I'll grant that, because I have priority rights. I'm gonna keep the water here for now, and of course I'm gonna end up at this point, and I'm gonna allow someone who wants to object to it to file it, and after a vote, I'm gonna go back to the pitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u83	Yes. Mr. Blackman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u84	Thank you for the floor. I would like to question the vote, ladies and gentlemen, because during the vote I tried to insert the voting card, it is certainly also recorded on the cameras, and the voting device did not work. Thank you. And I find it absolutely immoral!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u85	Yes. [[There's a messenger calling for a word. Benda.]] Also to the vote? prosit, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u86	Please, I ask that the President declare the vote confusing, because he knows well that I have entered the hall and asked for an appeal. Each Member shall have the right to do so. It's always been respected here! I was waving my card to Mr President to ask for an adjournment. It didn't happen! I consider this to be such a foul that I consider it absolutely an act, and I ask Mr President to seriously consider whether you want to continue this diction. Then we're really going to have mineral water poured into the voting machine every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u87	Yes, I'm registering. However, there has been an objection to the vote. [[This is the messenger. A hobby.]] Also with an objection? There's another objection. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u88	Mr President, I would ask you to declare this vote that was confusing before they entered the hall in the right part, because it has no result. Although Mr Sklenák asked that the voting days be Tuesday and Thursday, the Rules of Procedure say directly about setting aside other hours, to set aside other hours for the third reading of bills, and no such proposal to set aside other hours, it was actually confusing from the ground up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u89	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u90	I would like to remind you that President Hamáček knows that two veto clubs have set aside other hours and other days. I don't know if we're gonna rehearse every ten minutes. That was the tactic David Rath applied in 2011 if you find it funny. That's just the veto. Deal, deal, deal! And when a political agreement is made on how the vote will take place, please respect it and do not take advantage of our agreement. We were in the lobby, as we announced, we didn't run anywhere from the House, and before we could get back, you would-be-funny voted for something! I note that at least two parliamentary clubs, and I name them, the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09, are vetoing to be held in a third reading in hours other than those set aside.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u91	Mr. Ambassador, I see a whole series of other applicants, and I'll make it simple. I declare this vote confusing. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] Because... Vice-President of the House reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what you've been used to in previous elections, but this is not really the political culture that KDU-ČSL wants to participate in, and that is why we're taking a 45-hour break for the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-25-ps2013-012-05-001-999.u93	Yes. I will interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until - we are due today until 14 o'clock and given that the vote has been misguided, so the agreement of the club presidents is in force, which means we will meet here on Wednesday at 10 o'clock and I am interrupting the meeting of the House until 10 o'clock by Wednesday.
