ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u1	131. Proposal for the establishment of the Examination Commission of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the examination of serious errors which occurred during the construction of the D47 motorway / House document 1142/ [[11.30 hours]] A group of 42 Members and Members submitted a proposal to set up the commission of inquiry, while at the same time this group prepared a motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which is part of this press, by House document 1142. I ask that the representative of this group, Mrs Olga Havlová, or an authorised member of this group of Members, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I am very glad that after a number of peripetia we have come today to discuss the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry on the D47 motorway. This transport artery of the Moravian-Silesian Region cost tens of billions of crowns, which can be lost in irrecoverable. [[Members are having a lot of fun in the hall. Members are waiting for a while.]] The highway is built on the wrong ground and is in real danger of having to rebuild. It is because of the poor quality of the ground that the traffic is already limited in some sections of the highway. There is also a threat of a slide of supporting walls, which are anchored in a poor basement. Bridges are another problem. With more weight, they can fall. If the D47 closes, there is a real danger of investors leaving Poland, and there will be a rapid rise in unemployment in our region. Currently, the action is a state action, virtually. Directorate of roads and motorways, against construction contractors solved at the arbitration court. The situation on D47 is totally unacceptable at a time when there is not enough funds in the state budget. It is precisely the disproportionate cost of construction of roads and motorways in the Czech Republic that the public perceives very negatively in the long term. But even worse is the situation where overpriced highways, when the cost of one kilometer was one billion, show defects. The contractor refuses to fix them for free. The state had to proceed to a lawsuit where it sought redress. The Commission should answer the questions of the particular error in the construction of the D47 motorway, whether technical, economic or environmental. Next, who caused the damage. I consider it important to know whether the Road and Motorway Directorate uses all available tools in litigation. Last but not least, the Commission should also deal with the future. D47 is a system problem that may also concern other motorways in our Republic. Who will pay billions for repairs or even on a new highway? The Commission must also answer the question of how to prevent these systemic failures in the future. Therefore, in conclusion, I call on you to support the creation of this commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u3	Thank you. I merely note that the House resolution setting up the commission of inquiry is to include the precise determination of the matter to be examined and the time limit within which the committee of inquiry shall present its findings with the proposal of the House. It is important that this be heard in a detailed debate. Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová, for sitting at the rapporteur's table and accompanying me in the general debate that I am opening with this. This is Mr. Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear government, just allow me very briefly to tell the meaning of the Commission and why we are trying to establish it. The meaning is clear and clear. I know, and you all know it from the media, too, that D47 has been involved for a long time at the Department of Transport. I think we can count that time for years, and none of us know what really happened, how it was being investigated, what was happening. Basically, we all know the only result that D47 was badly built, that it couldn't be driven, but no one determined the clear responsibility of anyone at all. The commission has a clear goal - to investigate the personal responsibility of the people involved in this matter, whoever it is, simply fall to whom according to the system. Because there's been nothing going on at the Department of Transport for a long time because we don't know what's going on there, so we'd like to see if there's room for the activities of law enforcement authorities and whose side. That is what I think there are serious reasons for setting up this Commission and transferring this issue from the Ministry of Transport to public land, to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. Let me just say one more thing. The media asked me yesterday if the Dawn movement would support the formation of this commission. I want to repeat for everyone that the Úsvit movement was one of the main plaintiffs and proponents to set up this commission, because we do not care what happened to the construction of this highway, where the money was spent on the construction of this highway, and especially who has personal responsibility for how it turned out. I firmly believe that this committee of inquiry will give a clear result to the Chamber of Deputies and citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have Mrs Zelienková here with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u6	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say on the screen that I voted in favour of the 43 vote. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u7	Thank you. This concerns the previous vote that we had last. Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kudela.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u8	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, I am one of those who signed up for this committee of inquiry. Moravian-Silesian Region, Ostrava enjoyed the D47 motorway for a long time, she was very pleased that the construction of the motorway was successful in relatively short term. We tracked the construction of the highway, and on the other hand, we also know from the communication with the workers who worked on that highway that everything isn't quite right. Even these people are laughing at us, saying, "What do you want to investigate? I mean, we know very well how it was that it wasn't made of stone, it was made of deafness that normally disintegrates over time. Look at our local roads, roads, so there are poor quality materials in the construction of the highway. What do you want to investigate? We already know. I am signing a request to set up a committee of inquiry, and I ask the House to support the establishment of this committee of inquiry, so that the outcome of what was actually going on with the highway is actually reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I'm registering two proper applications for the debate. The first is Mr Birke and then President Faltýnek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u10	Thank you. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I am sorry, it is generally known that I am speaking on the ground, but this time I have written it. I'm sorry, everyone. I wrote it myself, colleague, you'll be surprised. I'm certainly not the only one watching the sad saga of Czech highways. This is a painful regional problem for many of us. For example, we don't have to go far. Land slides to D8, water leaks to D3, acceleration and reconstruction of D1. In the past, we could even watch the highway blow off to Vienna. I assume the situation has changed. I could, of course, continue. We will hardly find a region that does not wait for the start or completion of a motorway section or other key communication. Our country can successfully reach an advanced Europe in a number of areas. But it's not the quality of the motorway network. That's definitely cutting our bonus points. Everyone who drives a car abroad knows that, and I say something really has to be done about it. [[11.40 hours]] Therefore, let me put out loud the question that has been on my mind since my colleague Havlová proposed this committee of inquiry. The question is this: Do we really want to set up a commission for nine kilometers of highway, when there are far more problematic places in the Czech Republic? I do not reject this committee - and I underline this sentence. I don't even care about that. It is true that various views have been expressed on this committee in social democracy. None, but neither of us, colleagues and fellow Members of the Social Democracy Club, questioned the sense of the Commission itself. This means, let me also express the position of the ČSSD club that, on the contrary, it supports the idea of the commission of inquiry. Sure, but we're saying it's not just a fluffy D47. There are a number of other problems: D1, D3, D8. [[There's constant noise in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am no House Matador. However, I completely understand that Members from one region will decide to open the local problem at parliamentary level. It's okay, they have every right. Many of us have just run for the House, including me. But I'm worried that in a month or two, in six months, we're gonna be voting on some other interrogation committee for some other section of the highway. Having a committee of inquiry for every mile would certainly not lead to an improvement in the situation on our motorways. Vice-President, I ask you, it is very difficult to speak when the House is noisy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u11	I understand you very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for your help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u13	Not in the sense that I can hear you, but I understand that in order to understand what you're talking about, it takes peace here. So I'm asking you, colleagues, if you have something important to discuss, go to the lobby so that those who are interested can listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. And so I think and ask what the problem is. Is there a problem in us, the Members, who in this honourable House want to represent our regions? I'm sure you didn't! The problem is somewhere else. The problem is clearly in a dysfunctional executive of the Ministry of Transport. We don't have to go far for evidence. Just look into the year-old conclusion of the Supreme Audit Office, which examined the costs and preparation of construction of motorways and express roads from 2008 to 2012. To refresh memory, I will quote some partial conclusions. The construction of motorways and express roads is disproportionately extended. From the approval of the investment project to the completion of the construction, the most recent period will be 12 years. Time slips occurred mainly in connection with territorial and building procedures. There are also procedural flaws in building and territorial proceedings that allow their participants to attack them frequently and repeatedly. This leads to further delays. Since 2007, the Czech Republic has no bindingly approved medium-term or long-term conceptual material to define the priority and urgency of completion of individual buildings depending on available financial resources. According to the conceptual materials of the Ministry of Transport from the 1990s, the network of motorways and express roads should have been completed. If everything goes as it has been, it will be completed in 32 years and it will cost 520 billion. CZK, which is 60 percent more than expected in 1999! This is due, among other things, to shortcomings in the conceptual and management activities of the Ministry of Transport. I repeat: shortcomings in the conceptual and management activities of the Ministry of Transport. But let me be serious and not throw everything at the current situation. When I look at the crowd of transport ministers in the last eight years, there's no wonder. With the exception of Minister Řebíček after him, gentlemen Bendl, Slamečka, Bárta, Šmerda, Dobeš, Stanjura and Žák rarely lasted more than a year. Even as mayor of the city, I enjoyed discussions about the city's delays with six transport ministers. We all know that traffic is one of the hardest resorts and it's hard to handle. This, moreover, turned out to be the case with some former ministers who had to leave because of their inability to leave. That's why I appreciated that the coalition partner of the ANO movement pushed the hot chair of the crisis manager who came as an expert in the transport industry. I had a good impression of his plans to connect the Czech roads and motorways to the European network as soon as possible, to focus on repairing the key D1 motorway, to stabilise the central vehicle register, to address the situation in the management of ŘSD, to prepare the Act on Line Buildings - but it was February 2014. Nothing. The moon has met with the moon, it's the end of September, and ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I have to say, unfortunately, the crisis manager is a crisis manager. Connecting Czech motorways to the European network? No, we're going to Vienna on a two-way road because we don't need the highway. Acceleration D1? Correction of this key transport artery is taking on further and further delay. Central Vehicle Register? The Minister extended the contract to the former contractor without a tender procedure. I'm pretty sure it's within his purview, and I won't attack it. A situation on the S.O.D.? That's a chapter for yourself. When we look back, ten people have been in charge for the last ten years. Of these, six directors were appointed and four directors were appointed to the proceedings. But this year alone, the leadership of the ŘSD has changed four times. That's an absolute record! Currently, the Road and Motorway Directorate is once again managed only by the appointed director and the selection of the Director General is in the stars. We all know that the CEO's tender has been cancelled. Preparation of key legislation to help speed up the construction of key transport arteries? So far, we have not seen the Linen Construction Act, nor his material purpose. According to the government's legislative work plan, the minister was to present it in June. With a little effort, we could already have this key standard in the paragrafo version in the House in the autumn. We'll have nothing. Instead, we will discuss the brutal amendment to the Environmental Enforcement Act from the Ministry of Environment workshop, which will stop Czech construction altogether next year if the amendments do not change. And I firmly believe that the wisdom of some colleagues and colleagues will be sufficient and realize that this amendment would substantially stop the construction of line constructions, even buildings as in general next year! It is nice to hear the talk of this amendment that will not stop the financing of restructuring funds on the European Commission. Did anyone ever ask what the money would be for if we weren't able to build anything for them because of the same novel? Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for getting a little excited, but I think that even the atmosphere here in the House has moved considerably this week, and not just this week, and many of us are more and more aware that the problems at the Department of Transport are not being solved at all. That is why, at the beginning, I was talking about the need to think carefully about whether we should have a House Investigation Commission on every piece of highway. Because at the end of the term, it could also happen that each of us could be chairman of one such commission. But let's turn the page. There are a number of questions that I think we should certainly pay attention to in relation to the D47 Committee of Investigation's proposal. The first and key question is the issue of arbitration between the ŘSD and the contractor of the work on D47. According to some information, it is currently 17, according to other 19. In any event, the horizon of the closure of these disputes at the Permanent Arbitration Court of the Economic and Agricultural Chamber far exceeds the six-month deadline for the work of the commission of inquiry. And that's extremely important. Imagine the effect the work of the commission of inquiry can have on the course of these arbitrations! Or else: How will the bodies involved in these arbitrations proceed to the Commission. The Commission's deliberations shall be public under the Rules of Procedure, minutes shall be drawn up and the Chairman of the Commission shall inform the Commission of the results on the outside. This means that every word that falls on the committee, every document requested by the committee, every testimony, every opinion of the expert will be published in some form, and thus it can also significantly intervene in ongoing arbitration. Each party may thus use the information of the counterparty that appears at the arbitration panel's meeting. What would be the willingness of both of these entities to share with the Commission facts that could jeopardise their position before the arbitration panel? And what would be the outcome of the commission's work if it didn't have enough quality and valid documentation? [[11.50 hours]] And once again, please do not take my words as a sign of disapproval of the idea of the D47 investigation committee. I'm simply trying to play the role of devil's advocate here and point out some possible risks and shortcomings. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, if we look at the explanatory memorandum on the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, we can get to know the proposals for six questions to be answered by the committee. I would leave aside that question number three pre-emptes who is to blame in the case - namely the Road and Motorway Directorate. This formulational inaccuracy is certainly not in order and must be corrected before the final vote on the proposal. However, I also consider that half of the issues are directed to specific state institutions - Road and Motorway Directorate, Ministry of Transport - however, no question points to the contractor of the problematic work. For example, if, according to the proposed questions, the final report of the commission of inquiry were to be structured, logically, the role of the state would be significantly greater, namely the role of the Road and Motorway Directorate in the whole matter than the role of the contractor, so that there could be distortion of the optics to be dealt with by the commission of inquiry. We should also pay attention to these things. Appropriate care and possible circle of questions to expand and create conditions for objective work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u15	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm still going to ask for silence in the room, because the noise level is really unbearable. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm gonna go. There is also an aspect of personnel, which I have already mentioned in relation to the Road and Motorway Directorate, which is one party to the D47 dispute. We all see that he's in a bad way. I remind you again that in the last ten years ten people have been replaced in the lead, of which six directors have been appointed and four directors have been appointed. This year alone, the management of the ŘSD has changed four times. This certainly does not indicate the good condition of this key state organization. If it were a private company, it would probably disintegrate and destabilize such a cadence of changes in leadership. We can hope that the Road and Motorway Directorate will cope with this situation. However, what I consider to be a bigger problem in terms of the intention to set up a D47 committee of inquiry is the loss of continuity, the loss of institutional memory in the Road and Motorway Directorate. Individuals, sometimes teams, and people who participated in the preparation of various buildings, as well as in the preparation of dispute resolution documents, left with each outgoing director. In my opinion, it will now be complicated to look back at the documents for the investigation committee on the project that started in 2003. Yes, I'm sure there are documentation for the arbitration court, but those will certainly not be fully applicable for the purposes of the panel for the understandable reasons I have already mentioned. In conclusion, let me sum up the essentials. Before we decide on the D47 investigation, we should be clear on the following issues. Is the commission's assignment as contained in the explanatory memorandum balanced and sufficient? Shouldn't the Commission deal with problems associated with Czech motorways at a much wider level? Doesn't the work of the commission of inquiry affect the course of arbitrations that are conducted around D47? What will the committee of inquiry have the conditions for its activities? Does he get all the information he needs? And finally. I mentioned a number of reservations and comments here. But it's not my intention, as they say, to put sand in gearing. On the contrary, I am interested in the problem of building Czech motorways in depth, even as a member of the commission of inquiry. I just regret that the problems must go so far as to have to deal with them in this way on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have three factual comments registered here. First President Okamura, then Mrs Havlová, then Mr Plzák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was a little surprised by the previous speech, because basically I didn't know whether the aim really was to investigate any thieving or overpriced, or, I would say, to a certain professional-looking packaging, on which there was certainly a lot of truth, or many points that could be discussed, without a doubt, so to wrap it up so that something would be sent back to the lost. Once again, I stress that I do not find the D47 motorway to be very low, because this is about a billion crowns, with the usual price of about half a billion. That means nine times half a billion, this could be a waste of CZK 4.5 billion, dear friends, which sounds like a lot to me. So on the one hand, it's nine, but let's say B, it could be 4.5 billion in crowns, not in kilometers. And that's a hell of a lot of money. The second thing is that we're dealing with a principled thing. That is why our Member, Olga Havlová, came with this initiative for the Dawn movement. We are very pleased that a number of Members and Clubs have joined this through the political spectrum, which is great. In our opinion, motorways and roads are overpriced or stolen for 25 years, and basically never have been named the culprit, nor has a system solution been set up to prevent this from happening. Neither, nor the other. My previous speaker here has named some ministers in the last eight years. I'd move it. I think it concerns the problem over the last 25 years, and that is where basically all the political parties that were in the government by then have already taken turns, that is, in the House. So it's a principled thing. Once we finally find out the culprit and he's punished, the others will be careful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u19	Mr President, I'm sorry, you volunteered with a point of fact, your two minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u20	Yes, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u21	Thank you, thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u22	I'm very brief. My previous speaker, Mr Birke, said one thing: that we are dealing with nine kilometers in the Moravian-Silesian region. Yes, it's true. But why is it so hard to build in the Moravian-Silesian region? Are we gonna keep watching to see the next Colds and watch the dead die? And then we're just gonna deal with this situation here? I think right now is the time for us to deal with this and not wait for more people to die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u23	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Plzák. After that, Mr. Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Don't worry, Mr President, I'll be brief. Of course, that committee could be dealing with the construction of all the highways in our country. There were lamentations that we had highways overpriced. If this committee comes into existence and deals with this, I would recommend a little something that has somehow vanished in time. There was a Mr. Hála, a member of social democracy at the Road and Motorway Directorate, and when he was apprehended, there was a notepad that he had recorded in a secret stash where the money was coming from the highways. Then perhaps he was freed. And I wonder where the notebook went, because since then it's been gone, and there's been no sign of it. [[Laughing in the hall]] [[Mr Fiedler's loud applause]] So please, if this committee comes into existence, I'd like to intercede a lot, look for that notebook, and we'll be clear where the money from the highways went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u25	Thank you. And now, Mr. Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u26	I'll try to stuff it in two minutes. Mr Okamuro through the Vice-President, Mr President, I assume that we are in the Czech Parliament, that I have spoken Czech and that we have understood each other. In other words, we do not question the investigation committee and the nine kilometers D47. I think I made that clear. I've repeated it several times. It's just your reaction. On the other hand, I understand all kinds of nudges and stuff. The problem is one thing. I don't know if that notebook ever existed. I don't know. You know that. I don't know who you're pointing at. But what I want to tell you is, if we're going to say here today that 25 years here, I'm not going to say here that 25 years in the Czech Republic has been stolen. I will not shout such cheap gestures, which some political party leaders mainly shout before the elections. [[The speaker raises his voice fluently]] I'm just saying, we all have an announcement duty here! And if any of us feel like we're stealing from here, then for God's sake... [[The speaker is screaming]] There are law enforcement agencies here, so why don't one of us do it? And he's just yelling? [[The speaker is very angry.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker says thank you in a calm voice.]] I'm sorry I raised my voice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u27	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u28	Thank you. I'll specify. Lawyers may correct me, but law enforcement agencies are bound to do something even if they hear something or learn from some media that something like this is happening. You don't have to announce. And the notebook, maybe the Minister would tell us where the notebook is, I don't know. But that was regular. Let somebody deny it. If anyone says he didn't exist... But I'd like to know if he existed, and if he did, then where is he? That's all I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u29	I thank you for keeping time. And now we will continue with a proper debate. [[Members report with factual remarks, among other things. Mr Faltynek has been for a long time.]] A real point? Minister, is that a factual point, or is that a priority right? First of all, Mr Gabal's point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u30	Thank you. Hello. I don't want to drag it out, co-workers, co-workers, government. I merely wanted to say to Mr Birke through the President: The experience of the Opencard investigation committee is that you can file a criminal report - justified, factually substantiated - and it is not enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u31	Thank you. Mr. Faltýnek has a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u32	I'm sorry I turned my proper performance into a de facto comment, 'cause I don't think I'd be able to see it. However, I would just like to say one sentence that our parliamentary club supports the establishment of this committee of inquiry. I'm sorry, colleague Birke, I didn't understand his election speech or his post-election speech at all, but I think that this committee will gradually come up with the things that were going on there, and it will cover some other issues. And he can also investigate D1 within D47 because D47 is the continuation of D1. So let's set up the committee and move on to the program, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u33	Thank you. I just want to clarify, Mr.Faltýnek - can I cut you off from a proper debate? [[Mr. Faltynek agrees.]] Okay, thank you. With priority rights, Minister Chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u34	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know which films some colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies are watching, but the Minister of the Interior can't intervene by law into a living case, which means unfortunately. I don't have a notebook, I don't know if it existed, but I suppose if it existed, the law enforcement authorities would use the evidence in the case of the gentleman concerned. That means I must disappoint you at the moment, but I don't know anything about a notebook. And I recommend you with the knowledge of the matter, as one of your colleagues said here, that it is often not enough to file a reasoned criminal report. So you don't quite believe everything that says in some newspapers... In some papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u35	Thank you. And now I'm not seeing any factual comment. Minister Prachař reports with priority rights. Minister, I apologize, Mr Benešík with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u36	Thank you for your understanding, Minister. Dear House, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, please, let us stick to the subject. This is my first time here. I know we can talk about anything for a long time, but I'm starting to think that this point is starting to look very strongly like the theater game of Losing a class book.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u37	Thank you, and now with priority rights, Minister Prachař.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have long listened to here about the situation in which the Ministry of Transport is in, how nothing is done, whether it was before the elections or the folklore continues after the elections. I would like to make a few comments on this. The crisis manager's a crisis manager, so let's see how far we can get. I don't want to comment on this anymore. I think we're doing our best to somehow move forward with the situation we've taken over. As far as D47 is concerned. During my D47 era, the arbitration courts have decided four times on the matter by valorisations, and we have found to our great surprise that part of the funds paid in the Valorisations are so-called. statuted out and it is not possible to recover these funds, even if they are entitled to them, but limited. This was a big surprise for me and we continue in these disputes. At the Road and Motorway Directorate there is a new restart of the department of control and quality of buildings. We supply legal representatives who have been properly competitive, all the documents and arbitration proceedings are already under way in the case of defects. Every week we regularly monitor bridges on which I had the traffic reduced to 50km speed and ruled out vehicles weighing over 3.5 tonnes. These bridges are in category 6. The contractor says otherwise, let the expert committee decide. As regards the proposal to set up the commission of inquiry, I spoke about this shortly after I joined the Ministry of Transport. I certainly welcome such an initiative. Whether in relation to the valid judgments we have today, with doubts that the State is presenting all evidence in time and quality to the state's legal representatives. This motorway was put into operation in 2008. This highway was supervised by the so-called Government agent. This highway was dealt with by so-called the property commission, which was the advisory body of the former Directors-General, and at the same time the contracts were awarded to law firms and experts. These are all publicly known things that I've presented several times. Therefore I intercede to The Chamber of Deputies has set up such a commission in order to make a transparent representation, and by both the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, such documents will be provided which cannot in any way jeopardise existing legal disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u39	I thank the Minister. And now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm here to comment on Mr. Birke's performance. Traffic is a complex resort? It's not. He's very sophisticated and relatively simple against others. I'm willing to accept that finance is a complex resort, because there's somebody cheating on the other side of the world with interest rates and, given that we're a small economy, it gets here, and the Minister of Finance can stand on his head and often just solve the consequences. Traffic is sophisticated. Where there is a Czech problem, it is indeed that transport requires long-term stability. I dare say that in January we were one step ahead of the precipice regarding the situation of this resort, and we took that step forward under Mr. Prachař. As far as backgrounds are concerned. Of course, it's been a while, but in the construction law they are clearly far longer than the warranty period for a number of things where the time is not limited. You run, but it takes knowledge of the construction law in fundamental matters. Of course, there is some lifetime of buildings and where there will be no documents, which of course somebody liked to cancel, I have the personal experience of other events in the capital of Prague, so they just start analytics. And it would probably be interesting to know - I was here in vain calling for an emergency meeting after there was an answer to whether there were some analyses that she was processing, for example. Pardubice University, ignored or even stopped. What's the deal with finding out the real situation? We have joined in setting up the commission. Most of the club members signed it. If someone wasn't signed, it's only because the petitioner said she'd have enough signatures, and our colleagues weren't here at the time, but some 20 or over 20, it was. Unfortunately, the investigation committee is a sad result of the fact that the Department of Transport is acting strangely. I don't think it would be necessary if the Minister of Transport, at the moment Mrs Havlová came up with this initiative, would report on how things are going. There's no such thing here, so all the more reason for this committee. [[12.10 hours]] Of course, I'm not close to being hunted at specific people, but what doesn't make sense to me is why someone isn't able to easily document and tell who was doing technical surveillance, who was designing the highway, or the given section, who forced himself to use the materials from the landfills and what materials it all was. I mean, there's been some drilling going on. What are the results of this? The limitation of some kind of valorization. This is probably in charge of a specific department and specific people at the Road and Motorway Directorate. The Minister can't see his mouth here. I'm here when assessing the situation at ŘSD said that the quality control unit was being humiliated. Mostly, the members of the committee should keep an eye on what to do. If we're gonna get screwed and someone's gonna stick something in there for a while, and then they're gonna be costing the state, which I'm afraid will end up like that, or if they're gonna come back and say, "We ordered for 7 billion, if a billion was worth a kilometer, a perfect piece of work with some lifetime, with some parameters, and we want you to give it to us." And do as you please. I can tell you one thing. If there really is dung in the pits, if there really is trash in there, God forbid, if somebody put something in there from lagoons, then it's not for some partial repairs, and it's still saving up to strengthen the terrain. I know from Prague that this one case happened here, but it wasn't slag, it was mud. But the raid just had to be completely rebuilt because it was still running away and it wasn't stable. These materials are stabilized considerably longer than some 60 months. As far as bridges are concerned, it's all standard stuff. And if someone did it wrong, during the era of socialism, leather coats and people would collect for this. I feel like anything can happen today. If we are allowed to do so, we are few, so we will send one representative to the committee, who also has a relationship with the Moravian-Silesian Region. I don't envy members at all. The pressures will be enormous, and I think it's appropriate. I'd also like to know who dares to do this in this way. I've been criticizing what's going on here for a long time. Unfortunately, I'm warning the future. If you put in a man who hadn't moved in this business before, and he doesn't know what the practices of building suppliers, supervision and the like, they'll just make him a fool, and it'll continue. Just like that, this is the result, the lousy quality for maybe overpriced money. Don't take any illusions. We call it thieves, but it probably all ran sophisticated according to the law through changes, inaccuracies of projects and so on and so on. So don't think that if the police could act, they might. But everything checks out, it's in the contracts. There are differences everywhere. It usually starts with crappy projects, demands and pressures of various initiatives, the pressure of mayors who want to add to it, others blackmail that they do not give their government's consent opinions, which they should not interfere with. So it's one with the other. The fact that there are problems on other sections or on other constructions, I suggested here, and the only ODS, I feel, supported us to form an investigation committee for a number of other things. And it's not like she's going in deep. How would anyone find out what they did there with an addition to the reconstructed section D1, so it may not be necessary to deal with it for a long time. All you have to do is submit an amendment and say who signed it, who was there, and then just an economic analysis and can follow: it's either okay or it's law enforcement. You didn't allow it. I find it strange to hear from the strongest party of the coalition that the crisis manager has become a crisis manager. So deal with it. And I think that the two responsible, who are now responsible for the state of the transport resort, are Bohuslav Sobotka and Andrej Babiš - without apologies. We'll support the formation of the commission, put in our deputy. It won't be easy. What's the problem, if he's running there, and I don't know that, but apparently, some criminal proceedings, then the problem is that there might be a leak. But that depends on you how the commission will be secured, which data will be provided, which will not be provided. In principle, if they were to make sure that someone would do and complete the process of finding out and correcting things as they should, if this committee could do it, the hat would be down and it would be hugely beneficial. They used to laugh at us when the city set up an investigation committee on a drowned subway. I was the only politician who was there who presided as a member, otherwise there were all the experts. It was the object of jokes, the brutal pressure of media paid from one side and the other, that is, the Transport Company, then management, versus then suppliers of some things. They made a fool of us both. It was extremely unpleasant, the defense wasn't. Some politicians played an extremely outrageous role in the fact that they walked as invited because they wanted to monitor what it was there. However, the real result was the status of flood protection of the subway, the capture of weak spots, the new system in the passageways where the subway was heated, the ongoing checks on the state of closing doors, the adaptation, the new standards on the subway, in terms of safety and administration, where mining standards for this work were introduced. That wasn't before. And other things and other things. Of course, we ended up scandalized publicly, but on a real level, I hope, the commission, experts helped tremendously much. It's another experience. Of course, it would be good if the committee invited some experts to cooperate. Please note that at that time I had better experience with people from the Mining College of Ostrava. But now it can be feminine for them, that it is in their region, unlike in Prague. When it comes to breaking bread and giving people a sense of safety that it will not be abused against them, they will tell you the truth quite quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u41	Thank you, honourable Member. Before I invite Mr. Vondráček to the microphone, and that is Mr. Šidlo, allow me to load my apologies, and this is Mr. Vondráček - the Member apologizes from today's meeting from 12 to 13 o'clock due to a business meeting outside the building, and here I have Mrs. Maxová's apologies, who apologizes from today's meeting from 12.40 to 16 o'clock and from 17.10 to 18, and then apologizes from tomorrow's meeting from 9 to 11.30. Thank you. And now you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Members of the government, my fellow Members, allow me to join the debate on the subject of the committee of inquiry on the implementation of the D47. [[The chairman accidentally turned off the microphone]] I have been in the House for quite a while and I would like to respond here to what Mr. Birke said. I do not think that the Chamber of Deputies in any way inspires the Institute of Investigation Commissions. I have seen several of them here, and the commission has always been created under the general pressure of some discontent with the implementation of a number of projects carried out by the Czech Republic's executives. The Chamber of Deputies, not only as a legislative body but also as a political body, tried in its own way to fulfil its supervisory role towards executives. I also see this in this case, when my colleague Havlová came to us and asked our club, and therefore me directly, whether we will be willing to support the creation of this committee of inquiry. It was also said that there are a number of defects in the construction of line constructions at the level of motorways and express roads in the Czech Republic. Yes, I understand the argument. I am also not in favour of the commission of inquiry being present at any part of the construction, which I think would be very bad for the political scene in the Czech Republic. But on the other hand, I think that it can also be a good argument that if we focus on one particular construction that has taken place, or its individual object or section, we can also set that politics in the Czech Republic are of course interested in how these individual line constructions are implemented. [[12.20 hours]] And if there is a significant deterioration in the ratio between cost and quality and output from that construction, I think it is appropriate that we also show this way not only to the public, but also to the executive as such, that we are willing to deal with the problem and that we are willing to look for links there, which I think the commission is quite well named, and that is that - of course, it has been said here - to concern the fall of whom, let us find a specific culprit. I think we should really stick to the name of the commission, and that's the question of implementing the construction. I think the biggest problems arose in the realization of the construction. There has been a failure of a number of competences which the investor has vis-à-vis suppliers. This is essential, I think, that whatever the project was created there and is completed during the implementation of the construction, it is imperative that control mechanisms that are clearly set up do not fail there. And if this committee can uncover the problems that have arisen in these mechanisms, I think that it will not be a falsely established commission, but it will be something that will help in the Czech Republic in a way to tighten up and set much harder conditions for when we politicians decide on various investments in transport infrastructure and, of course, require the appropriate quality, which was also partly mentioned by Mr Laudát. I am precisely in favour of uncovering these problems if we succeed in the commission at all, as politicians and have, of course, given a clear clue as to how to proceed further towards the failure of executives to fulfil their role in the construction of these line constructions. So I can say for the Club of Members of the KSČM that, from the very beginning, when we promised Mrs Havlová our support for this committee, we will also support its creation in today's negotiations and we will also try to actively participate in its activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Okamura's microphone, please. Please have Mr. Fiedler prepare himself. [[Messenger. Okamura says she's not logged in.]] I've got you here with priority rights. [[Fun.]] Okay, I'll get Mr. Fiedler's mike, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u44	Good noon. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I really didn't. I might have enough time to make a factual point, because a number of previous speakers have already said, who have taken factual notes, so I will adjust my performance very much and also very much. I'm sure we support, I'm from the Dawn MP, setting up the commission. Here, I agree with what my colleague Laudát has already said in front of me. If there are materials in that structure, and this information is publicly available that are not supposed to be there, I think it's perfectly clear. Unfortunately, the Minister of Transport has already left Prachař, who spoke here a moment ago about the fact that at other constructions we lost sums for valorization, which were simply not claimed. And I would like to know how the Minister requires responsibility, or if he requires responsibility, from the persons responsible for this. And it's the same with D47. If there are materials that aren't supposed to be there, and the indications are clearly such that such materials have been used there, at least - I don't want to be a judge - but at least I see the responsibility, there I agree with my colleague Laudát, in the supervision of the building. I've been a construction manager for a while, I've been meeting with the construction supervisor, so, for God's sake, I'm asking - what was the construction supervisor doing there? I think we can look for responsibility here, too. And I would also like to mention one thing that has already flashed through my head several times, which you will think is unrelated to this matter, but in general there is a connection. I'll be very short. When we were on one of the foreign trips, we talked to the Armenian Ombudsman in Armenia and he told us that they had a sector that was permanently problematic, did not work, it was a sector where there were absolute problems for a long time, permanently. And they're supposed to be doing a pretty good job today. They didn't change anything, they didn't change any law, they didn't change any system, they didn't change any mechanisms. They changed only one thing - the top head of the department and the whole department started working. And here we are with the responsibility of all those involved in the management of the ŘSD, the Ministry of Transport. I think that if the personnel policy is done by being nominated by a person who really wants to deal with these things, there won't have to be any other measures, and these things will go on their own. Of course, I support the establishment of the commission of inquiry, and I believe that it will launch what has long been said here, that we have highways, roads overpriced, that we are wasted, that these contracts are often not realized by the winner, but by the third, fourth, fifth subcontractors in some branch of subcontractors, so the profits remain for some over-the-counter, and for little money the poor guy at the end, which we may be witnessing in this case as well. So one of the reasons is definitely the personal responsibility of the managers, and those managers were in the position of the head of the ŘSD, the bosses of the companies or the Ministry of Transport. And I'm asking myself one more question. We have witnessed some accidents and misfortunes in the construction of bridges here in our Republic. And if I remember correctly, the names of the companies that are connected to this are constantly going through these cases, just like we're constantly going through these overpriced constructions and the same company names. How is that possible? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u45	Thank you and please now with the priority right of Minister Prachař and then Mr Blažek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u46	Madam President, through you I would like to respond to Mr Fiedler's speech. Unlike all the speakers who took a short tour of the past and of all the constructions and all the directors of ŘSD who were here, and the ministers, I expressed myself only on the D47 motorway, today on the D1. And when I was talking about the valorisations and the judicial decisions, the arbitrations that clearly tell us that funds had been unduly paid here, I meant the real D47 motorway, which we are discussing here about setting up a committee of inquiry, not other valorisations that are not subject to. So much for a refill. With regard to sub-contracts and other matters, I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will be seriously concerned with the Public Procurement Act in terms of the European Directive's diction in force since February this year and will find enough courage to amend the Public Procurement Act, which will then give investor organisations a much broader mandate, as we can deal with our contractors who behave the way they do. We have done our utmost to prove it, and I repeat it again, to the legal office that emerged from the public tender and represents today the state in dispute with the contractors - the contractors are very clear: it is a consortium run by Eurovia. In my short time, I have dealt with this consortium several times with the legal representatives of both the State, Weil and the opponent's representatives, Mr Pokornýý's legal office, who represents the contractor in this dispute, Eurovia. I think it is important that these litigations continue in order to find out who is behind these defects, which the Road and Motorway Directorate has clearly identified, described and sued. It must also be said that several criminal charges have already been filed in this case, and the police in Ostrava have postponed all criminal charges. We received the last delay of this criminal filing on Monday this week. So we really need to look at why the police are constantly delaying the criminal charges filed by the Road and Motorway Directorate. I am in favour of this committee of inquiry being created because there are more questions. This is not only the quality of the construction, the responsibility of the managers, but there is also the question of how the whole process was managed, and therefore I again intercede for the Chamber of Deputies to approve such a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u47	I thank the Minister and ask Mr Blažek to wait a little longer, because I have here a factual comment from Mr Volný. [[Wrong.]] He's jamming her, so you have room, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u48	Hello, thank you for your word. I have nothing against this committee of inquiry, but we should always stand both feet on the ground and not set goals that the committee cannot meet. The Commission, in order not to misunderstand that it is an institution active in criminal proceedings, so that the commission is created on a policy proposal, a political body is created by a political body and may have some political conclusions. If any of you have any idea that today some crook who was stealing something, let's say in the ŘSD that a commission was formed, and he's going to run back, he's obviously living with a classic dream of a ridiculous man. I support the formation of this commission, but in advance I say, let us not set our targets unfulfilled. Some political conclusions about what may have been wrong can be accepted to make something better, or when I have colleagues here from YES to make it better. But I don't think anything else can come out of this. Here's to the discussion I'm listening to. It's been bothering me for a long time. There's one thing we should be aware of. We shouldn't go out on a flat-rate basis and say, "The police don't work, the courts don't work." Then you have a cop on TV, and he says, "I'd work, but I miss the law. Then some lawyer comes out, he says, well, if the courts work... It is not our job, on the contrary, to defend constitutional institutions, and by gradually spitting on each other, so citizens create an image that is not true and is not right. Everything could be better, but as far as the police are concerned, and the Home Secretary should have said that, and I'm surprised he didn't say that, the police work in the standard way. The idea that it doesn't work is wrong. Citizens wouldn't know that the House didn't work, that the Senate wasn't working, that the government wasn't working, that another body wasn't working, the next day. If the police don't work, you'll all know it the next day and immediately. That's just not true. And these flat-rate claims are wrong and unfair. In this state, there are about 300,000 criminal reports by hand, part of which is reporting, which means that they are completely pointless, where they deal with completely different matters, and 100,000 criminal prosecutions are launched each year. So let's not tell the cops they don't. Maybe there's too many of them for how many of us there are, those criminal reports. I will ask you not to constantly slander the state authorities of this state, because we do not benefit this state, we do harm to it, and we do harm to it in the electorate of all parties. We're here to make things better, not to just say that he's doing it wrong, that guy's doing it wrong. There is a government, whether it solves it, and there is a House that helps it, whether it's a coalition or opposition. In conclusion, let me say one thing. From the whole debate, the person who listened to it today will draw one conclusion, especially if he works as a senior civil servant. Just don't let him keep a notebook.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u49	I thank the honourable Member and ask whether anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. Mr Stanjura with priority rights or with fact? With priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u50	I didn't use priority rights, I waited for the other speakers to say what they wanted to say. Two things. I'm gonna be very quick, and I'm gonna keep the more serious thing after this point is over. First, our club will support the formation of the commission, we see no problem. On the other hand, many have talked about how mistakes are made in realization, but I say with knowledge that very often mistakes are made at the beginning of the preparation. I think the name would be much better, but it's on the submitters, if it was there not only for realization, but also for the preparation and implementation of the D47 construction, because sometimes when you make a mistake in preparation, it only shows up in the implementation and it's not a mistake in realization but preparation. And if we really want to do this seriously, and I am from a region that has waited decades for that highway, and we have all called across the political spectrum that we want to do this highway, then we should not forget about the preparation, the failed PPP project, which actually pro-phanced the PPP project in the years ahead, where the state paid hundreds of millions just to withdraw from the contract, where the damage was really extremely high. This is our incentive to take this including preparation. Then, of course, the PPP project is automatically involved. We do not need to specially put it in the name of the point, and we are prepared to participate in the work of the commission in a standard way. And just one more thing. Although the debate was quite excited, someone complained about how anyone who attacked or did not attack here, at this point you did not need opposition. The government coalition here was quite alone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u51	I thank the honourable Member and once again ask whether anyone is joining the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and asking whether there is an interest in the final word. [[No one checked in.]] Okay. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, and there I assume that Mrs Havlová is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would read the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Chamber of Deputies I. It shall be established in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 30 Constitution of the Czech Republic and pursuant to Section 48 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the commission of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the examination of serious errors which occurred during the preparation and implementation of the construction of the D47 motorway; II. require the Commission to examine the activities of all the authorities active in this proceeding and the audit bodies; III. set a period of six months from the date of establishment of the commission of inquiry in which the commission of inquiry is required to present its findings with a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies; IV. determines the number of members of the committee of inquiry at 9, on behalf of members of the club as follows: ČSSD - 2 members, YES 2011 - 2 members, KSČM - 1 member, TOP 09 - 1 member, ODS - 1 member, KDU-ČSL - 1 member, Dawn of Direct Democracy - 1 member. The Commission will have a President, Vice-President and thus a further 7 members. The duration of the Commission's activities will be 6 months. The Commission shall act at least once a month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u53	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u54	Thank you. Sorry for the extension. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just propose to the appellant what the Minister mentioned here, and that is that you have an investigation there, so that the commission can also deal with why it has not been investigated, because if the relevant institutions are filing a criminal complaint and the police are delaying it, then the committee should be able to see why the police have not investigated. [[Answer from the news desk off the microphone.]] There's just a checkpoint, not an interrogation. [[Answer from the news desk off the microphone.]] All organs active - good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u55	I'm just confirming that it's actually at point II. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the Chamber of Deputies whether we can vote on the resolution as a whole. There is no objection to this, so just in case, I'm going to sign you all off, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your cards. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution and asking who is in favour. Raise your hand and press the button. Against? I conclude the vote, it is the vote with order number 44, to which 135 are registered, for 134, against 1. I'm stating that the investigation committee has been set up. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] I'm done discussing paragraph 131. With priority rights, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u56	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. There are things that the club chairman has to watch, and when he finds out, he has to report to the House, even if he doesn't enjoy it personally. So believe me, I'm not happy about it, but I just have to say it, because the rules are one and they have to be followed. At the beginning of the last point, Mrs Zelienková spoke. She didn't ask for a vote to be called into question, but here she authoritarianly said that she voted in favour. But according to the junk, it wasn't logged in. As it is said in this parliamentary term that I wanted to vote in favour and voted against, it is already against the Rules of Procedure. The correct objection is: I voted in favour or against, and I have something else on high. I'd tolerate that. [[12.40 hours]] But to tell us on the microphone how they voted? I could tell each of the unlisted votes how I would vote if I could make it or if I did. [[unintelligible]] I don't think it's really funny, it's smiling. For such things, there were mandates here in the pre-past parliamentary periods and so on. I really consider this a serious matter, and I ask everyone to avoid it and not lie like little children. Plus, it was completely unnecessary. The coalition has reached its point. It wasn't a combat vote. But it's just impossible to say who voted when he wasn't logged in. We really consider this a serious foul, and I'm just saying I'm not happy about it. It's not a personal attack, but the rules must apply to everyone. And believe that we're watching this because this time it was a vote that wasn't important, which wasn't close, but if we let it happen, it could happen next time in a vote that would be important or that would be tight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-003-131.u57	Yes. Thank you. We will now proceed to the discussion of paragraph 5, which is the interrupted discussion of the point.
