ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 260/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček, who is at the rapporteur's table. I would ask Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, but which I do not see. He's excused according to the records. I would ask the Committee on Health to agree on a new rapporteur so that we can vote on him before the opening word. Can anyone from the Health Committee? Okay, so Mr. Krákora's colleague will be the rapporteur. We'll decide that in the number 35 vote. I ask who is in favour of Mr Krákora as rapporteur for this press. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 35. Of the 121 Members present for 111, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we have a new rapporteur. I will now ask the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček for his opening word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a draft law amending the law on public health insurance. This is a proposal based on the Government's programming declaration, which in the health section, contains, inter alia, a commitment to abolishing the regulatory fee for the recipe and treatment in the outpatient sector, with effect from 1 January 2015. Health regulatory fees represent an unfair social burden on citizens who are already so often in an unfavourable situation and thus create barriers to access to healthcare. Originally, these charges were enshrined in the rule of law with the intention of preventing the waste of public health insurance funds from being wasted on so-called "necessary care." [[17.50 hours]] The related administrative and financial burden affecting both doctors and patients does not correspond to their benefits and ultimately does not meet the objectives for which they were introduced. For these reasons, for example, medical treatment fees were abolished in the Federal Republic of Germany at the end of 2012. According to data from the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, although immediately after the introduction of the regulatory fee for outpatient treatment, there was a decrease from approximately 129 million to 107 million examinations per year, the number of examinations increased again to around 116 million per year in the immediately following year, where it is maintained now. The charging regulatory function can therefore be considered to be significantly limited compared to the fee used for the use of the alert. Recipe fee, respectively. At the time of the introduction of the recipe entry fee, although it reduced the number of recipes issued each year, it did not have any significant effect on the overall consumption of medicinal products. He is primarily a doctor who needs to know the patient's condition and decide whether or not to prescribe the medicinal product. It is hardly possible then to consider such a fee as regulatory and burden the obligation to pay a patient who is already burdened with a large part of the medicines by participating in the form of supplements. At the same time, due to a number of other factors affecting prices and the reimbursement of medicines, the recipe fees only have a marginal effect on the drawing of funds from the public health insurance system on pharmaceutical care, so their introduction did not involve savings in this area either. The proposed legislation therefore aims to abolish regulatory fees in the health sector, with the exception of the regulatory fee for the use of medical emergency services or emergency services in the field of dental medicine. This fee will remain the only one retained in the current amount of CZK 90. In principle, exceptions to its reimbursement as well as the intended purpose of the use of the selected fees will also be maintained, i.e., the provider will continue to be obliged to use the selected regulatory fees to cover the costs associated with the operation and modernisation of the relevant medical facility. Finally, it should be noted that the loss of income of health service providers from cancelled charges will be offset by those providers. In this respect, I recall, in particular, the adopted amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act No.109/2014 Coll., which became effective on 1 July, and for the public health insurance system in 2015, this will mean revenue sources of 4.2 billion. Crowns. Mr President, honourable Members, the proposed proposal removes legislation which, in relation to insured persons seeking the necessary health services, is a burden and does not lead to a significantly more effective use of health services, and I am therefore addressing you with a request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u3	I thank the Minister and ask the rapporteur Jaroslav Krákora to present his intelligence report. Then I will open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u4	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, I think that although I am the alternate rapporteur, I have a very light role to play by my previous speaker, Mr Minister, because I think it would be by carrying wood into the woods here to repeat what the Minister said. You know that the aim of this bill is to abolish all charges other than the emergency services of adults, children and dentists, to compensate for the loss of an increase in payment for state insured persons, and that's about it. I agree with what the Minister said. We've been talking about fees here, and we've been discussing it for days. I won't hold you up for nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I am opening a general debate. Mr Tomio Okamura will be the first to speak with priority rights. Mr. Leoš Heger will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we support the abolition of health charges in Dawn. It is entirely in line with our electoral agenda. However, in the discussion on health fees, we should make it clear at the outset - do we really want what has been declared publicly here for years, i.e. to prevent the abuse of medical care? If so, then the last thing that should be charged is, in our opinion, a medical emergency. As far as dental emergency is concerned, there's no threat of abuse. Your tooth will only be drilled out and you must see your doctor with further treatment. I don't know a guy who enjoys using dentists and volunteering to drill or teeth. On the contrary, the Czech Republic is pushing for a big problem, which is the financial inaccessibility of quality dental care for poorer people. All over the world, you can tell the poor from the rich just by their teeth. Unfortunately, what we felt was anti-capitalist propaganda is a reality today. Look at your fellow citizens' teeth and see how deep they are in their pockets. It will often be a very sad view of Czech reality. Untreated teeth and gums, however, are not just a cosmetic problem. In addition to frequent pain, other diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, also result. And here we Members just because we deny treatment in the order of a hundred crowns, we produce patients, which we then treat with millions of costs. I'm not just talking about the emergency room, I'm talking about the overall commercialisation of dental care. Of course, standard medical emergency is a more complex problem. In the Czech Republic, the concept of family doctor has somehow disappeared, so when your child throws up in the evening, you simply have no choice and you have to go to the emergency room, often the only one in the district, regardless of whether it's stupid or not. You can't risk it and you can't. I'm not even talking about cutting off a piece of your body or spraying acid in your eye. - I don't know what my colleagues are laughing at. The city policeman is laughing, all right. To want a regulatory fee for the treatment of a really acute problem that you pay yourself under legal insurance is, in our opinion, nonsense and it is unconstitutional and I say this regardless of the Constitutional Court's judicature, because common sense and the Constitution say, I quote, "citizens have the right to free health care on the basis of public insurance." There's another way to deal with the abuse of the emergency room. First of all, give people the opportunity to solve non-acute cases other than emergency situations. In some countries, for example, a model of telephone medical assistance has been proven abroad when first-stage doctors consult symptoms, and if there is clearly nothing dramatic, the doctor will advise what to do, or what to buy in the pharmacy, and everything will go without a visit to the emergency room. Another case is, and I must also mention, of course, the actual abuse of care. Here it is possible to consider the possibility for an emergency doctor to assess whether treatment was really necessary or not, and he had the opportunity to issue an overstandard account, which is an unacute treatment outside the office hours, because I completely agree that the abuse of the emergency room needs to be charged, sanctioned. But if a person is in pain, he should be in danger, so he should be able to get immediate help without a single crown in his pocket, because he has the right, even under insurance paid for it. Thank you for your attention. And as I was saying, of course we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tomie Okamur. Now the words will be taken by colleague Leoš Heger. Before I give him my word, I will say another apology, starting at 18 o'clock for the personal reasons of Mr František Vácha. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, once again, nice summer evening. Evergreen regulatory fees haunt this House for about eight years. I think we have a sort of swan song of regulatory fees ahead of us today. Maybe it'll be worth it to close the entire eight-year period with some analysis and a look at how the charges were really going. So before the swordsman here finally plays, allow me to be a little more extensive than usual, but I will try not to overdo it again at this time. [[18.00 hours]] The only plus that can be found to cancel regulatory fees after winning elections is the fact that the cancellation was in the ČSSD electoral program is legitimate and that the ČSSD, which, through the mouth of Minister Němeček, presents the proposal, is consistent in its opinions. The fact that there are these pluses, however, is not the main argument for it to be, at least in the opinion of the TOP 09, a step for health care and patients completely correct. There's been a lot of facts or opinions here, and I'm not going to argue with them, even though I have to mention those I disagree with. Charges are regulated. The figures quoted here by the Minister of Health from the UHIS analyses say that in most cases, the majority of the segments are about a 10% decline against the state before the introduction, and of course, it's hard to say what the state would look like if the fees weren't, and in the end, in a year or two, we'll probably find out. The second fact is that it is a very necessary income for health care establishments and for the whole system as well. The fees are state-of-the-art, although what we have heard in the Constitution is that everyone is entitled to free health care - within the limits laid down by the law, it did not, however, come out here. And that's perfectly legal for fees. I would also mention that the fees remaining until today are highly socially covered, that there is enough care in our country, that accessibility is excellent for everyone in Europe and that there is evidence of excess care, such as. a high number of citizens' contacts with a doctor, which is at least twice the European standard. In a few months, or about half a year, when hospitalization fees have been abolished, it is clear that the number of hospitalized people is increasing, at least in long-term care. Participation in health care is low in our country and this is a paradox because in our country, significantly higher social participation is tolerated, as is known from the fees that a patient has to pay in the form of retirement, or not a patient, but a client of social facilities where he is stationed in the long term. Generally, health care is a tested resort, that in health care there is a tendency to significantly expand costs, new technologies and the necessary financial resources, and the way of increasing the internal efficiency of the system is very difficult to find without using other financial resources. Thus, the only solution to increase the efficiency of the system, if we have limited resources, and I would just remind you that the resources for health are limited in the world's richest countries as well as the only solution to increase efficiency, the only solution to increase and improve health services is to increase efficiency in the system if we do not have other resources, and this is very difficult and lies in different area regulations. In general, it is known that the general health insurance and entitlement payments system leads worldwide, in each of these systems, to extreme overproduction of performance and regulation are necessary in the public interest of sustainability. In matters of regulation and their necessity in public health systems, allow me to quote the important left-wing theoretics of the health systems of Petr Háva, at that time working at the Faculty of Social Sciences, which among others. he worked as an advisor to Vladimír Špidla at the time of his engagement at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and at the Ministry of Health, he worked as an advisor to the former Member of Parliament of the Czech Republic, Dr. Fischerová, who became famous as author for many years. Section Fischerová in Law No. 48/1997 Coll., which forbids any payment for care which is covered by general health insurance, unless stated in the Act explicitly otherwise. In 1999, Dr. Háva, sufficiently presented and recalled on this parliamentary ground, wrote in one of his publications - I quote now: "The health insurance is burdened with the existence of moral risk, so-called. moral hazard, as economists say, on the part of insured people, but also on the side of health service providers. In the case of insured persons, if insured persons are not involved in the preservation of their health, their irresponsible behaviour and unnecessary or detractable damage to their health may occur, thereby increasing the consumption of care. And it is known," I quote, "some insured people may also try to consume excessive care." Furthermore, our left-wing author says that "from the point of view of the health economy, it is important to look for ways in which patients, providers and health service payers can be involved in their behaviour in order to reduce moral risk. On the patient side, various co-payments are used, which can be used especially in cases of health services that are characterised by higher price elasticity of demand, such as nursing long-term care, rehabilitation, dental services, medicines." Often, the proponents of the abolition of regulatory fees were argued by the opponents of the abolition of regulatory fees that the doctor is the main driver of how much the patient's care runs out, his word is valid and his responsibility is for the patient to take this care rationally. This is often argued that we do not need regulatory fees, that doctors can handle everything. Again, I will quote Dr. Háva: "As with patients with lack of interest on the part of health service providers, and lack of control mechanisms, their behaviour can lead to unnecessary losses, such as providing an excessive range of services, offering a demand for services, economically disadvantageous transcription behaviour, etc.'. Definitely no more quotes. So, as the leftist theorist says, on the doctor's side, the pressures are high for various reasons. However, the costs of the review system are so large and the review doctors with sufficient qualifications are few that it is very difficult only in this way to control the doctor as a money distributor and sufficient amount of healthcare, it is very difficult and it is never sufficient if a review doctor would not be above each doctor at least one half of his work. Thus, copayments of patients are a good helper, and even though they are accompanied by various imperfections and limitations, they are partly working and, moreover, they bring money. [[18.10 hours]] Direct money and participation in health care are not pleased with the coalition that wants to abolish its fees. We have a medical system where the volume of services provided is still unnecessarily high in many cases, and a number of parameters such as the number of patients' contacts with doctors that I have already mentioned, the number of hospitalizations, the length of hospitalizations or the capacity of bed funds, that is clear. At the same time, however, it must be said that the participation that the current coalition is opposed to is low compared to comparable countries and has gradually been significantly socially affected following the introduction of regulatory charges. Despite all this, co-payments have a significant financial effect, and the often cited around five billion a year represents a significant contribution to health care due to its relative underfinancing and, moreover, the already mentioned effect of rationalising the provision of health services comes to this. The yield, as often criticized, is based on really ill patients, but it is a yield that is racked up for an individual patient, and a large part of it comes from patients with mild diseases. Health benefits from heavy patients mean only a real minimum share of their own total cost of treatment and therefore does not undermine the principle of insurance coverage for catastrophic costs. There is no doubt that regulatory fees have a number of vices that needed to be resolved. A few examples for all: Repeated payments of 30 crowns indicated by the doctor or chaining charges in case of indication of a consiliar examination by another doctor of course caused protests and sometimes grins in patients. It was necessary to make further adjustments and we prepared some of this when I was part of the Ministry of Health, but the hysteria of the opposition from regulatory fees in the previous government period was so great that it did not allow any further rational steps and adjustments de facto. As a result, the fees are now abolished virtually completely, and the money that the general health insurance budget has been increased from the state budget will be lost and the five billion CZK paid, which could have been used for further technological development of health care, will now be, as they say, so called. It's been eaten. This may help five to ten percent of the poorest inhabitants of this country, but the remaining 90 percent of the population could have contributed to health without any problems. So be it, abolishing regulatory fees is a legitimate political decision. I, and now I will speak for the entire TOP 09 Club, but the Mayors and Independents consider it a bad decision, and I will therefore allow myself, in the next part of the debate, to put forward a motion to reject the law at first reading. It will be democratically decided, and although our opinion certainly does not prevail, it will at least be recorded for the future as a clear position on what our health care and the most severe patients in our opinion need. Let me conclude by saying that the whole of this extensive contribution was intended to demonstrate that regulatory fees and any regulated and socially reasonable participation were not even my predecessors who pushed it through, or myself who tried to adjust and defend it, that participation was not promoted to harm anyone. It was supposed to activate people to be more interested in their health, prevention and healthy way of life, in addition to the extremely high solidarity of healthy people with the sick in our system to strengthen the solidarity between the less ill and the more ill and to help the higher health efficiency and the most difficult patients who needed health care and will need it in the most difficult and expensive diseases. Classifying the promotion of regulatory fees as inhumanity and antisocial behaviour towards the needy people, as we have often been accused of, is the same as saying here that the extension of the government's choice of European Commissioner is merely an attempt by the Prime Minister of this country to harm it. I'm sure no one thinks that. Political decisions are often taken with the risk of side effects, sometimes they can be promoted more easily and sometimes more difficult, and especially sometimes they are more and sometimes less popular, regardless of their benefits or harm. And priori, therefore, to regard health participation as an attempt to cause harm to the people of this country is wrong. I defended my fees in the best of intentions. Therefore, I want to believe that their abolition, which will certainly be further defended here by the current coalition and its supporters, this abolition, as I said, is legitimate, is not presented in an attempt to harm this country. Of course, there are more possible measures to improve our health care, and I have no choice but to believe that if there is a reduction or cancellation of the participation by abolishing the fees in the end, our health care will somehow cope with the losses incurred. However, the Ministry of Health will require new work and very hard to find ways to further increase health efficiency and not just reach out for more money from the state. Thank you, and in the next debate, I will come forward with my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u9	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. We will continue, first with a factual remark by Mr Igor Nykl and then by Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u10	Good evening. Dear colleagues, unlike Mr Heger, I am indeed opposed to regulatory fees, and I will try to be brief as well. When I was thinking about how medical fees were introduced, I was looking at various considerations on the Internet and there was such an interesting thought that the explanation could be in the Czech Republic that we all like Jára Cimrman. Jara Cimrman was a pioneer of research in dead ends, and the Čech are perfect at it. So I would like to compare the introduction of medical fees to such research in dead ends, and that's because when we introduced them, at that time all the surrounding countries were actually retreating. They were introduced in Austria in 2001 and were abolished by the Rakušan in 2003. They were cancelled in 2006 in Slovakia, 2008 in Hungary, not implemented at all and not implemented in Poland, and currently in fact recently abolished regulatory fees as well as Germany. I do not think there are people in all these countries who do not understand and take unreasonable steps in health matters. So also this example. We are a country, we have these surrounding states, we see that we would be a white crow, and their health care is often farther than ours. So I think it's a very reasonable step. But what is true, what we may have to think about in the future, is the abolition of the so-called. a hospitalization fee, which is not a regulatory fee. I think there might be a way in the future. How to call it and all that, that's another thing. However, I strongly agree with the action taken by the Ministry of Health and what the coalition is now proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u11	I thank Mr Nykl for his contribution and for his time. And now, with Mrs. Soňa Marková's proper application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u12	One more beautiful day, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also speak with the opinion, this time, of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, on this bill. And even if I'm longer than usual, I won't be as long as my colleague Heger. Let me start by reminding you of an important fact. Since February of this year, there has been a bill in the Chamber of Deputies from the KSČM workshop, which has the number of the House press 126 and which amends Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance. And it is precisely this proposal that cancels if it is allowed to negotiate, which unfortunately the current government coalition has not allowed, it is abolishing all regulatory fees and, at the same time, introducing an annual limit of CZK 2,500 to cover supplements for medicinal products and foodstuffs for special medical purposes partly covered by health insurance. This is because KSČM has long been fully involved in the interests of patients, and repeatedly, and because at this point I can say that I am a memoir, this happened in 2008, when we first submitted laws and then amendments to the Act on Public Health Insurance to completely abolish the so-called regulatory fees. The current government coalition is now presenting its bill to abolish most of these charges, except for emergency charges. However, you have certainly noticed, and it is rather smiling, that even before this bill was presented at all, various negative statements were made in the media by the leaders of the government coalition or part of the government coalition, just on the subject of cancelled hospitalization fees and actually those fees as a whole. We are impressed and it seems that the cancellation of health fees served as a delightful theme and an attraction for voters, but in fact it is as if no one wants to cancel the fees except KSČM. [[The mockery of some members of the ČSSD and the ANO movement.]] Well, just that it took so long... And we haven't discussed our proposal, which, as I said before, has been here since February, so it kind of looked like it. Now a little history for those who are new here and don't know exactly the genesis that is about fees. On 20 May 2008, the Constitutional Court decided on the constitutionality of the so-called regulatory fees even though they were introduced in an unprecedented manner by adopting a large-scale amendment tabled in the second reading of the Act on the Stabilisation of Public Budget. I'm sure you who've been here longer remember that. This acceptance of fees was actually a typical sticker, because it was not possible to assess it sufficiently, to discuss it in a proper legislative process. In this regard, therefore, it seems rather amusing the loud scream we heard from the right-wing opposition that they might not have been able to express themselves sufficiently on the present Civil Service Act, because what was happening at the adoption of this law had no equivalent. And if I take this as it was, when it passed through the Chamber of Deputies in this way, the Senate didn't discuss this serious change at all and sent it on to sign the President of the Republic. So just to remind us how it was in 2008. In his argument, the Constitutional Court, when he said that regulatory fees are legal and correspond to the Constitution, took advantage of the argument of the then Minister Tomáš Julínek that the only reason for introducing charges is their regulatory effect against overuse of health care. On this basis, the Court of First Instance avoided the objection that care is not payable in the course of its provision by not considering fees for the payment of care but as some kind of legitimate regulation. As an important condition of legitimacy, however, he stated that he must not be an obstacle to access to care for anyone. Neither of these conditions, which means regulation nor the strangling obstacle, was, in effect, not fulfilled. And the Constitutional Court itself urged the legislature to change this if it turns out that any of these conditions were not fulfilled and that it should eventually abolish those charges. In the end, however, the Constitutional Court did so on its own after, on the contrary, in the time of Nečasův' government, the fee was increased for hospitalization from 60 to 100 crowns. In our opinion, in patients who really need healthcare, fees are an unjustified obstacle to accessing this care. This obstacle then also has a discriminatory character because it appears to be minor for some patients, but there is always a certain number of patients who are permanently or currently unable to pay. In the media, for example, from Mr Heger's former Minister of Health himself, the sentence was repeated, and I am quoting it now, and it is strongly contrary to what Mr Heger said here a moment ago, because he said here a moment ago that the fees are regulated, but he himself has expressed himself in the past, and I quote: "Even though the regulatory fees do not regulate anything, they will not be cancelled, because the health service needs the money collected. " The previously declared regulatory effect in case of overuse of health care was also questioned by the facts stated by the Czech Statistical Office. The Minister, now that he has passed the law, has also given some figures. Regulatory fees reduced the number of visits to outpatient specialists in 2008 - and the question is whether it was a good thing that they were gynecologists and dentists, as well as emergency services - and at the same time there was an increase for a system of much more expensive medical emergency exits. However, as early as 2009, the number of visits increased again by 12 percent compared to 2008. Therefore, it can be reasonably assumed that any decrease in the frequency of visits to a doctor is not the result of reduced overuse, but that the socially weakest patients have abandoned their visits due to the level of fees. [[18.30 hours]] I often claim that anyone who is not in the hospital must still pay for hotel services is somewhat unfair. Patients cannot control whether they will be treated and how long they will be in the hospital. For some, it was a big problem, even if they don't smoke, drink, play vending machines, and text each other, as we have heard over and over again in the previous election periods from health care fee advocates. Since 2000, citizens' health spending has increased more than threefold. People pay more than 40 billion for health. CZK except for what they pay for health insurance. In 2007, when patients had not yet paid regulatory fees, private health spending was 14.8% and the contribution increased by 2 percent. I would just like to remind you that, in relation to what we are hearing now, we need to compensate all those who had previously received medical fees, the fact that they will no longer have them now, I would remind you that no one cared that the involvement of patients between 2007 and 2008 has increased by 2% and that no one has compensated the citizens. Moreover, as a result of the economic crisis and of everything that happened, the expenditures were actually even greater. Drug supplements are also rising constantly, so the problem is constantly increasing. In the last four years, the health sector has lost 30 billion. CZK precisely as a result of the economic crisis. That, too, must be remembered. The regulatory function of fees from the very beginning was particularly questionable in chronically ill, disabled, people with injuries, blood and bone marrow donors, as well as in hospitalized patients who died in a medical facility, and overall in situations where the frequency of visits to a doctor and the prescribed medications is decided by a doctor, not by a patient. Neither information about the contribution of the introduction of the so-called the regulatory fees have not been and have not yet been substantiated by any really serious analysis. I am merely reminding you that, over the past parliamentary periods, I have repeatedly asked various ministers here to demonstrate a serious analysis of how regulatory fees have contributed, or whether they have any regulatory or other benefits at all. I never got an answer. It is still not clear at all how many people who needed care, did not go to the doctor or take the prescribed medicines, to what extent they endangered their health or even life, and in the end, they are actually more expensive for the health system today. Medical fees have thus been introduced in our opinion so that patients simply get used to the fact that health care is a business like any other and that health care must be paid for. This opened the way of change from solidarity health care to all the patients required, which is guaranteed by the Institute of the Czech Republic, to paid luxury services only for those who will have sufficient funds. For these reasons, immediately after the introduction of the fees, we started talking about paid overstandards, controlled care, various insurance plans and such things, if you remember that patients will be able to pay a few thousand for their operator etc. Of course, it is necessary to compensate for income outages, not because it regulates, but because they were simply income, to supply funds to the health system. However, there are other ways that will not represent an intervention in already thin wallets of a large number of Czech citizens, especially in a situation where according to qualified estimates, funds of several billion crowns escape from the health care every year. Moreover, fees only regulate demand, not the supply of health services. If there is a link between the fee and the medical facility that collected it and the law has so far explicitly ordered it, there is a demand for those who collect it to pay their patients the highest possible payment. This demand is the stronger the more vulnerable other sources of income are, and that is what has happened in past right-wing health governments. Let us recall that the right-wing government coalition has set up a murderous mix in past parliamentary periods: restrictive payment orders, raising VAT, inflation, and the negative consequences of its disastrous so-called reforms. The increase in VAT rates, in particular the sharp increase in the reduced rate to 15 per cent in 2013, and the transfer of certain medical devices from reduced to the basic rate of VAT, had a significant impact on the cost increase throughout the health sector. The impact for 2013 on the whole health system was minus 4 billion. Crowns. On the other hand, reducing the VAT rate by 1 % only for medicines issued and paid for the recipe means reducing the system's burden by 500 million. A year's worth of crowns. Thus, the government has the opportunity to compensate for any lack of funding systemically, not from patients' pockets, and to return the principle of solidarity to the whole system. I collect at random: reducing the VAT rate in health care, permanently abolishing the ceilings on premiums for the richest income - let us note that the cancellation was only for two years, and it is necessary for the Ministry to deal with this issue in a timely manner; increase of GDP to a level comparable to other EU countries, because the Czech Republic is permanently below this percentage, and last but not least a consistent control of the financial flows in the health sector so that these solidarity public funds are not wasted and spent effectively. For these reasons, which I have said here, the KSČM MP supports the Government's bill, but at the same time I am calling forward amendments that will cancel all medical fees or, alternatively, the accounting of the 90 Crown fee to the social limit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u13	Thank you, Mrs Sona Marková, for her performance. Mr František Laudát will take the floor and Mr Rom Kostřica will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by taking a very clear and clear diction from President Okamura, so we do not support the abolition of health fees in TOP 09 into the TOP 09 position. He fell here, and I'm hoping it's going to be procedurally clear, a motion for rejection at first reading. My colleague, Heger, says he's gonna suggest it so he doesn't have to do it any more if he doesn't discuss it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u15	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I'm registering your proposal, and I've registered my colleague Heger's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u16	Health is not my area, however, given that it has been going on for many years, so I requested an analysis, unfortunately, the more recent Parliamentary Institute does not have how it is in selected countries - I was not a contracting authority - to approach these issues, with someone choosing apparently relevant countries: Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Sweden, France, Hungary - so there has now become a change - Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Austria, Slovenia. And how does it work in there? Whether we were such Marťan when it came to the fact that we wanted to introduce regulatory, non-regulating, but first some health fees. [[18.40 hours]] Mr. Okamur managed to hit a goat between the eyes here. Because I have to say that even in those countries that, exceptionally, do not have or cannot be understood in this study, it actually looks like a majority that someone pays for either everything or a substantial part, with the exception of excluded groups, it is precisely for dental care, in most countries it is even for the treatment of infertility, artificial insemination. Of all the countries I've named, and it's a 2007 study, I think, the only one that could be quite clearly said that health fees were not and are not, so it's Slovenia and it was Denmark. However, in Denmark and other countries, where they are not, patients were conducting pre-appointed doctors at the time, so there was no right of choice. Somewhere, the charges are really trying pretty hard...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u17	Yes. I am going to ask colleagues who are discussing a subject other than health fees, and they do not have the floor to bring any discussions to the galleys and have Mr Laudát give his speech properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u18	Thank you. ... Quite harshly, they really try to adopt regulation, so even for some relatively fundamental performances there is a participation of 30, 50, 80 percent. I won't keep you here. We want to try to discuss all the points today. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] In many cases, these are indeed fees at a level to at least contribute to the awareness that medical care is not free, that general health insurance is not enough. Somewhere there are castes of people created, because of course there is insurance for everyone, but then you can pay extra standard or on private health establishments that are not in the system, so the rich can get to better technologies, to better care than the majority population. If you really wanted to put a social aspect into it, there really is no way out. You could have singled out a number of those categories. You could have given that health care patients could deduct from their taxes. You could have softened the conditions - although I don't consider them dramatic at all - so that it wouldn't affect socially weak groups. Minister. I'm a little surprised, but you're part of this weird coalition. Something came up here in the sense that it's antisocial. I'm surprised at you, but, okay, you're in the coalition that you're in, which wants to build socialism back here, it's your right to choose, or part of the electorate has chosen you, part of you can't, they can only cry. However, I would merely limit myself to reading the conclusions of the analysis: In the vast majority of the countries under examination, patients are involved in the financing of health care beyond public health insurance. The participation shall take the form of fees, supplementary and direct payments paid to health service providers. The compulsory participation beyond public health insurance is not in Denmark and Slovenia. Here it was said that the Slovák and Maďar were still on that road. Maďar, you know how they drive now. And we will pay their populism specifically in Česká spořitelna. The expert analyses of the national health systems examined by the States addressed to the European Commission for the database show that the main reason for introducing patients' participation in the financing of healthcare was to reduce public health insurance expenditure by obtaining an additional source of income and reducing the abuse of the public health insurance system, excessive medical treatment. Individual national reports do not indicate that the participation of patients would be introduced in order to improve the quality of healthcare provided. It cannot be concluded that there is a direct correlation between the quality of healthcare and patient fees, i.e. that the participation of patients would have a direct effect on the improvement of the quality of healthcare provided. However, it cannot be excluded and it can be considered that the involvement of patients with increased funds in health care can affect the quality of health care provided, as more funding offers greater opportunities. Minister, do you think that - there are fees in Finland, even the municipalities, higher territorial units in Sweden - do you think Scandinavia is antisocial? Do you think Finland is antisocial? I don't know, Dán. When we were there with the Committee on Budgets, they began to lament that, in all areas of precisely payments, subsidies and public expenditure, they were approaching the limit ceilings of their options and that they would have to do something about it. Do you think the Němec are antisocial? Belgičan, the Francouz are antisocial? I think that if you wanted to put a social aspect into this, you could have gone through tax deductions, softening for certain categories of citizens, etc. etc. You're putting our system back populistly, you're going to go to the Treasury to get Mr. Babiš to cover it. If it's funny, and it gets to it anyway, it gets pulled out of the OECD's analysis of the ratio of distribution, the individual categories of state budgets, what part of it is devoted to health care. There he finds that a large number of OECD members have a high share of finances in health care, and you will be unlucky, virtually. will have bad luck patients, will have bad luck Czech health care. That will be the result of your actions. But I understand that you may not be an internal supporter, even though you can't admit it here, but it's really the responsibility of this government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u19	I thank Mr Laudát and ask for some more attention. From the next meeting, the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes from 18.25 onwards, for health reasons Vojtěch Adam and Mr Herbert Pavera. Mr Rom Kostřica will now take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I'd limit myself to one or two notes. I would like to state or ask the Minister. It reduces those outpatient treatments from 119 to 116 million, it's 3 million, with a normal payment that it's not such a negligible effect, because it's about an estimated 1 billion. Even for this care, which may not have been necessary, those insurance companies have to pay for something. And this also applies to those who are unnecessary and really would not have to run, because the doctor too, of course, even though it is clear to him that this is a care that was not really requested lege artis will be paid from the insurance company, so the impact is, of course, completely different from what it would seem at first sight. I would say to Mrs Sona Marková that the whole TOP - I think we cannot agree with this because it is clear that Mrs Marková has never worked at the hospital because the introduction of regulatory fees is a very reasonable thing. All of us working on outpatients know a number of cases where waiters or people working the night shift go to treatment afterwards, possibly on Saturday, Sunday, because there are theoretically fewer waiting patients. So it was certainly a thing that was worthy and appropriate. I also believe that the decision of the Constitutional Court to abolish or eliminate hospitalization fees is, in a way, short-sighted. This is because most patients who are in the hospital are confused in their own way or don't understand why they don't get paid for all day meals, care, and everything. [[18.50 hours]] What Mrs Marková was saying here means that there are a number of people who, therefore, are not available to care, I think that is nonsense. The fact that you all may know that some enforcement from the executors, that's the thing about unpaid fees in a hospital, that's a thing of the ancient past. This was the case, such executor lobby has been put to an end in recent years and no hospital will in any way enforce these charges. Nor will any law firm take over such a task because it is completely losing. So that means whoever doesn't pay those fees isn't sanctioned in any way. It's kind of a volunteer thing, and I think it brings quite a considerable profit to the hospital, or to all the hospitals. And I firmly believe that there will never be anyone who hasn't been treated when he needs it, just because he hasn't paid the appropriate regulatory fee for hospitalization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u21	I thank Mr Kostřic. The words will now be taken by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will only touch on some of the shortcomings of this proposal. I do not want to argue about the usefulness or unnecessary or inadequacy of regulatory fees. What is sad is that really if a team changes to the Ministry of Health, completely different arguments and completely different statistics on regulatory fees are put forward. But that's a political thing. I'll admit it. These shortcomings are particularly economical. The submitted proposal contains an obvious miscalculation. According to the table in the explanatory memorandum, the cancellation of charges will result in a loss of revenues for providers of 3,270 million, of which 1,764 million. Pharmacies and 1,506 miles. doctors, respectively. outpatient facilities. Since the beginning of 2014, hospital operations have lost 2.1 billion. CZK by abolishing hospital, i.e. hospitalization fees. All charges, i.e. in hospitals, ambulances and pharmacies, totals 5.37 billion. CZK - are to be fully compensated according to the petitioner and coalition contracts. This proposal refers to Law No 109/2014 Sb., which we have already approved, which increased the payment for state insured persons, which according to the explanatory memorandum brings 4.2 billion to this law. The koruna per year, that's 2.1 billion. for bed facilities and 2.1 billion. for outpatients and pharmacies. It is therefore clear that this increased income of the health insurance scheme for state insured persons is lower than the loss of 1.17 billion. Crowns. In addition, the Ministry of Health does not take into account that hospitalization fees will be compensated according to the fact of 2014, when the number of hospitalizations is increasing significantly, especially in post-care and long-term care departments. It is therefore clear that the fee, which was estimated at 2.1 billion, calculated on the basis of the fact of 2013, will not be sufficient. The Ministry should therefore explain how it will take that difference by an amount to cover increased hospitalizations. I see other shortcomings from a legal point of view. The Ministry retains the emergency charge and therefore the whole problematic regulatory fee model as a private tax. The fee is collected under the law compulsory, moreover constitutionally problematic, for paid care. On the other hand, the provider's income is usually private. In theory, the law obliges providers to apply the fee for modernisation, but this is not and has never been controlled. And the koruna of revenue from fees is the same as the koruna of income from the insurance company, to which the item of directing and amortization is calculated, so it also includes the costs of modernisation, and it is not in any way enforceable that the koruna of the fee is used by the doctor for modernisation and profit was merely a crown of insurance. If charges are interrupted, it would be right to comply with the views of the professional public, such as Judge Dr Nykodým in the 2008 Constitutional Court's ruling and to remove the entire construction of Section 16a from the law. Because if the structure stays there, it'll only be because of the 90 crowns that are certainly right to be chosen, but the entire law of 48 is covered by this ballast right here. Weaknesses in legislative technical terms. The proposed amendment is doubtful legislatively technically, as it describes the proposed transfers of billions of compensations between insurance undertakings and providers only in a legally non-binding explanatory memorandum. And yet very vaguely. Only the explanatory memorandum to the proposed law gives some guidance, but only in the sense that it refers to the payment decree § 17 para. 5, respectively. the price code of the pharmacy. However, it should be noted here that the payment mechanism is probably already beyond the limits of constitutionality when we look at the 2013 Constitutional Court's decision but also at previous findings, and will not be able to be used, for example, for the cancellation of the entire section 17 para. 5. Even if this mechanism were to be maintained, there is no guarantee that this will give money for fees to all the providers concerned and the amount of the fee lost. In fact, the remuneration decree divides finances globally, considerably unevenly, between segments and between providers within these segments. Therefore, there is a risk, for example, that the increased appropriations added by payment for state insurance undertakings to compensate for charges will only be directed by the payment decree to the selected segment, such as specialised hospitals. Compensation of regulatory fees to pharmacies alone will be even more difficult. The current model of regulation of the degressive trade surcharge does not allow compensation of charges. The maximum margin is determined by the price regulation as a percentage of the price of medicines. Moreover, the margin is shared by the mechanism of CZK 30 to the pharmacy and it is not quite possible anymore because, while the regulatory fee was fixed regardless of the price of the drugs, the percentage margin depends on the price of the medicines. The Ministry would therefore have to develop a completely new model of price regulation, for example, to introduce a model of distribution fee or to introduce a payment for the performance of pharmacies in a similar way to the performance of practitioners and outpatient specialists. This disposal fee, or the remuneration for performance, would constitute a fixed part of the margin and would be intended exclusively for pharmacies and would not be shared with distributors. The Ministry of Health did not attach any concrete and valuable proposal to the law as to what the compensation mechanism in the payment decree and price regulation would look like. It is also unclear whether all regulatory charges will be offset for pharmacies, including those who did not collect regulatory fees. That means the ones that actually bonused the fees. That was the case with some chain pharmacies. Finally, we respect the coalition agreement, of course, and we will release this law for second reading, but we would like to get a minimum technical description of how compensation will take place. That means pharmacies, outpatient specialists and practitioners. And also to practical doctors for children and adolescents. Since this segment was actually affected by the cancellation of charges in 2009 and this fee was never fully compensated. The second thing is to secure a billion of the difference between what is actually already approved today, that's 4.2 billion, and the real need that makes almost 5.4 billion. Crowns. So this should be known in some way. If it's in the decree or the price code, it doesn't matter, I guess the Ministry has something to do with it, but it should be known by second reading how the compensation will take place and whether additional funding will be provided, or whether the total amount of regulatory fees will be reduced in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u23	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who was the last to be logged in to the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is checking in. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in a final match. Mr. Secretary? Yes, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for this very interesting debate. I'm not going to prolong it because I think everything has been said here. Perhaps on my part only that I understand the arguments of the right-wing opposition, because this is a matter on which we simply disagree. I admit the legitimate position of colleagues from another part of the political spectrum that this is simply not the right way for them, but I would also like them to understand that this is a long-term social democracy programme priority, that it is a priority for which the government coalition has agreed and which it is now legitimately asserting. Regarding what has been said here in the context of questions from Mr Ing, the Coalition Member. Hovorka, so here I would just like to say this: firstly, we want to compensate all providers for the regulatory fees that have actually been levied. I think it's appropriate to say here that we all know well that in pharmacies, in a large part of pharmacies, those fees were not collected in real life, and they were not just the large pharmacies. I think it would be a really great luxury for us to compensate for something those providers didn't choose in real life, what was more abused in the unfair competition against pharmacies that behaved correctly and respected the law. I feel from the point of view of my former activity, maybe I'll simplify it a little bit, but throughout Ostrava they collected regulatory fees for the pharmacy's prescription at the faculty hospital and pharmacy at the city hospital. I really don't think we should compensate those who didn't. And that also brings me to the answer to the question of the contradiction of the sum. I just think that the declared amount of 1.7 billion for pharmaceutical fees is beyond reality, and we are now trying to get real in cooperation with the pharmacy chamber. What the specific compensation mechanism for pharmacies will look like, we are preparing it. I have full confidence in my deputy, doktor Filip, who represents KDU-ČSL, and I will ask him to say exactly how we want to proceed. It's gonna be more complicated with the pharmacies, with the outpatient specialists, and with the practices, it's pretty simple, where we can do it through a payment decree and payment mechanisms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u25	Thank you, Minister. Now, the rapporteur with the final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u26	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will be very brief. During today's debate, seven Members have spoken, two proposals have been made for rejection, from Mr Heger and Mr Laudát, and I would like to make a proposal to shorten the deadline for 10 days, to 50 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u27	Okay. We will now consider the proposal that has been made in the debate, which is a motion for rejection. We'll decide in the next vote, but first I'll sign you off on a request from the diaper. Please log in with your ID cards. Given the number of apologies, I think the number of entries is about 120. I have begun voting order number 36 and I ask who is in favour of rejecting this proposal. [[Minister Mládek enters the hall and asks on the way to his place: Are we against or against? - Fun in the hall. - The President laughing:]] Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 36, 132 for 23, against 108. The motion was not accepted. Minister Mládek only excuses his absence at the time of the hearing. Of course, the question to the club president was legitimate. [[Jollyness.]] We will now consider the proposal for the commandment, because the motion for rejection failed. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Health. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see. We will decide in the vote the order number 37 which I have begun and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of the Health Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 37, 132 for 132, i.e. all of them. The motion was accepted. We will now decide to shorten the deadline for discussion by 10 days. In the vote, order number 38, I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 38, 132 for 101, versus 2. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Health, a deadline for discussion has been set for the committees for 50 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point No. 13. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-007-013.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. We will continue to discuss paragraph 14. This is about
