ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the performance of the post of State officials and certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended /German press 277/ - second reading Before we get to the debate, I have apologies. First of all, as of 6:30 pm today, Mr Jiří Koskuba apologizes for social reasons. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Furthermore, President Hamáček cancels today's apology. Obviously. He's right here next to me. Mr Böhnisch also apologizes today from 5:30 p.m. due to the adoption of a foreign delegation. Minister Chovanec apologizes today from 5:30 p.m. for work reasons. So that's an apology. Point 7 has been interrupted in a detailed debate. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u2	Vice-President Gazdík is reporting for a detailed debate. I presume with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u3	Good evening, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members, honourable Prime Minister. In a detailed debate, I would have one serious question for the Prime Minister. I studied the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2007, which was dealt with by the Constitutional Court in plenary under number 55/2005 16. 1. 2007 and published in the Collection of Laws under number 65/2007. In this resolution of the Constitutional Court, it is quite clear - I quote: an appropriate link between the salary of the representatives of the legislative and executive power and the salary of the judges, on the one hand, and the salary of the judges, on the other hand, must be regarded as a significant element of the guarantee of adequate material security of the judges in terms of the principle of the division of state power into the legislative, executive and judicial power. The construction of the Act on the salary of state officials, which guarantees, with the help of a single salary base and the statutory coefficients, that, together with the increase in the salaries of judges, representatives of legislative power and executive powers, the salaries of judges will automatically increase in the same proportion, thus constituting an important insurance policy in the legal order that the ratio in material security of representatives of individual powers will be maintained in the future. I would like to ask, Prime Minister, how does the Government's bill on the salary of state officials comply with this resolution by the Constitutional Court and implement it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u4	Thank you. The Prime Minister wishes to respond? Yes. After him, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have apologized today for part of the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as a result of the fact that in the Czech Republic there is an official visit by the President of the Polish Government, Mrs Ewa Kopacz, and at the moment we are having talks concerning not only Czech-Polish relations, but also our process within the European Union and the Visegrad Four. Until now, we have discussed a number of topics that, in my opinion, are very important for our international and joint relations. I want to mention for example. the question of the interconnection of transport infrastructure between the Czech Republic and Poland, but also the issue of the joint fight against drug production. We have a problem with regulating the sale of drugs that contain pseudoephedrine in Poland, but we also discussed topics relating to air protection and improving air conditions in the Moravian-Silesian region and neighbouring parts of Poland. So these were topics that I consider very important for the citizens of the Czech Republic. At this point, I have been interviewed by the President of the Polish Government, who is here in Prague for her first official visit as Polish Prime Minister. I interrupted these talks so that I could attend the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. I would also like to thank the President of the Polish Government in this way that she has agreed that our talks will be interrupted so that I can attend the Chamber of Deputies meetings. With regard to Mr Gazdík's question, I would like to say that we are currently dealing with a law that has been amended in previous parliamentary periods. If the government had not submitted a proposal to amend this bill, the salaries of constitutional officials would have been thawed from 1 January and there would have been a jumping increase of 26%. The coalition government therefore agreed to submit a bill. We agreed on this in the spring of this year. By the end of July, we submitted a bill to the Chamber of Deputies, which envisages a 1% increase in the salary of constitutional officials year-on-year and for the next few years these salaries of constitutional officials will be frozen. This is the content of a government amendment that we have tabled in the Chamber of Deputies, which has therefore been discussed in the first reading and is now the subject of the Chamber of Deputies. As regards the question of the response to the Constitutional Court's decision, first of all, I must say that it is necessary to respond in the context of this amendment of the law in question in order to avoid the problems of possible actions by judges, i.e. to reflect the position of the Constitutional Court in relation to judges. Here I assume that the relevant amendment will be tabled in the context of this law. As regards the question of the link between the salaries of Members and Senators to the salaries of other constitutional officials, I think that is a matter of discussion that has been going on here in the Chamber of Deputies for many months. I also assume and know that amendments have been tabled by Members who should guarantee this link in the future. I would also like to inform you that yesterday, the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club discussed this issue, and we agreed that we are prepared to support legislation that will ensure a direct link in future between the salaries of Members and Senators and the salaries of judges, by virtue of prosecutors, judges of the Constitutional Court, so that the salaries of Members and Senators depend on salaries in the public sphere, as envisaged by the construction of the law. This means that, while respecting the government's proposed annual salary increase, we are prepared to support the incorporation of a mechanism that would directly follow the salaries of Members and Senators on the salaries of employees in the public sphere. Therefore, if this mechanism were to be enshrined, what the Constitutional Court says in its finding would be fulfilled. But it is the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies itself will have to comment on individual amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u6	Now Vice-President Jermanová with priority rights, then Vice-President Gazdík with priority rights, then President Stanjura with priority rights. Then I have two proper applications. I'm just pointing out that we're in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u7	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It's gonna give me nothing but a response to what's been going on here and what's been going on for the last two weeks. As Vice-President of the House, even in the coalition government, I must speak directly to the Prime Minister. You've done one crucial thing - you've destroyed what we've been working on all along, and that's some sort of consensual agreement across the political parties. Even though we're political pledges, we know we don't do this. And I expect you, as party chair, to apologize to all Members, including your own, because you have damaged them in the media. If there's a deal, he's sticking to it. And I'm sorry, but I think for your populist points in front of the public, you've knocked down 200 people who make up the laws of this republic on the one hand. On the other hand, let me remind you that you are making accounts for this House, because this House gives you confidence. So any message through the media that you'll arrange for Members to make an emergency meeting, that it won't be like this, so I'd like a little humility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u8	I apologize to the Prime Minister, but with priority rights, I have two applications here. [[going to the pitch]] Then I'll give him my word. So with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u9	Dear Prime Minister, I understand that you are performing by the slogan "ask me what you want, I will answer you what I want." You really answered "whatever I want." However, I am asking about the government bill that you mentioned, which increases the salaries of constitutional officials by 1% and is further frozen. [[very decisively]] Do you really consider this something that is in accordance with the law that came out in the Collection of Laws as No. 65/2007, where it is clearly stated that the salaries of the representatives of the legislative, executive and judicial powers - in the same proportion, are automatically to be increased by the salaries of the judges - and this constitutes an important built-in insurance policy, that the ratio in material security of the representatives of the individual powers will also be maintained in the future? I think, according to your proposal, at a time when in 2018, our future colleagues would be at 53 percent of the salaries of judges, so I apologize, as a mathematician, I cannot consider this to be a balance of individual powers. Clearly, the government here violates the law that came out in the Collection of Laws, which is the Constitutional Court's decision. That's one problem. The second problem is that I have to sign up for what my colleague Jermanová said. Dear Prime Minister, the entire House has voted a certain agreement with which, according to the information of your President, you have been identified. The fact that you want to make a populist and false campaign at the expense of all of us, that you are soiling us in front of citizens and trying to make us people who want more and more, while not respecting the Constitutional Court's decision, I also call on you to apologize to this House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u10	Another performance with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u11	Thank you. I'm not gonna call on the Prime Minister to apologize, because he's not gonna apologize anyway, so it's pointless. I want to describe how the Prime Minister cheated on us. Because the agreement - I already said it, he was not here - had two parts: procedural, so that the opposition would not avail itself of its legal right to block the shortening of the period between first and second readings under thirty days, and at the same time contained... We closed both parts. We've done ours! You liked that - November 14th, Friday. We were all satisfied with the way the meeting took place in eight minutes, an extraordinary meeting as usual. You can twist your head, you can say it's not true. We know where the truth is. The deal was pre-negotiated and we waited for the Socialist Club's opinion on November 13 after your club, where according to our information, and we got it from the president of your club, I don't know if you were present, but you were informed... You can nod your head all you want, we got information. Make peace at home in social democracy. We got the information: Well, the Prime Minister finally had to respect the deal, let's do it. And we fulfilled our part of the deal on November 14th. [[18.10 hours]] Then you will expose us all, your chairman of the Budget Committee will adopt an agreement, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will write it down, and he will say that he has no comments on this. We, as one man and one woman, are voting on the budget committee by all the votes present - Social Democrats, Communists, Dawn, YES, KDU, TOP 09 and ODS, all of us have voted not only on the vote but also on the microphone and said: yes, our club will support this agreement that we have concluded - so that you, at your party secretariat, will not succeed, for example, in elections that were then sent to us via the media, that it is unacceptable and the Bureau of the ČSSD will not allow the House to do anything to itself. A typical example of the Party Secretariat. I don't want your apology! I care if you ever want to make a deal to keep it! If we didn't have a deal, it's normal. We didn't agree, everyone has an opinion, we're voting somehow. You used us. The procedural part of the agreement has been fulfilled, which suits you. Clearly, you don't want to fulfill the content of the agreement. You're making up reasons, and today you're gonna tell us how you're gonna work on a system solution, how we're gonna do it with a coefficient. We found the solution, we agreed on it, including your club. Without that, we wouldn't have gone into that deal on November 14th! And I don't care if you're shaking your head, you just can't talk your way out of it. That's right! Everyone here knows, your MPs know. You may shut their mouths that they won't say it on the microphone, maybe some of you will defend you on the microphone, but the truth is completely different. You made the other Members - how to put it politely, I don't know, I think you can fill in the word so I don't have to say it on a microphone in public space. I'm not going to join those who use strong terms. Because of your personal popularity, you threw the other 199 colleagues and colleagues overboard. And Pavel Blažek said it here: I, the only righteous Bohuslav Sobotka, will not let them declare it. But that was also agreed with you and your political party, your political club. How are we supposed to deal with your club president who is unable to implement the agreement he makes? He's not capable. You're exposing him to the fact that we don't want to deal with him anymore. There's no point, because we have to wait and see what the Bureau of the ČSSD has to say about this. It doesn't matter what the presidents of the MPs here arrange, we have to wait to hear what the ČSSD Bureau has to say. If they're up for it, maybe if they're not up for it, then President Sklenák will come back and say, "You, as experienced politicians, understand that the situation is changing." No, I don't understand! The deals are to be fulfilled, and you don't! So don't make excuses and don't describe your program to us today. You chose today's meeting. I understand it's not respectful of a foreign visit, but you've been deciding when we're going to negotiate since you've been dealing with it. And again, you tell us: I will convene an emergency meeting in January. We have a regular meeting in January. We don't have to do anything special if we need to. [[Glee in the hall.]] By the way, we've never threatened to obsess at this point. We appreciated the deal. You threw it away!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u12	Now the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u13	Thank you. honourable Members, I think it is not just this Chamber of Deputies, it is not just the Senate, it is not just the President of the Republic who is also involved in the legislative process, or the agreement made in the Chamber of Deputies, I assume that it is not binding on other institutions involved in the legislative process, and I do not know that they are integrated into this process. [[Dissenting voices and pounding into the benches from the right. The President is asking for peace.]] Above all, it is not just this Chamber of Deputies in terms of wage developments. I am very pleased that our government in the budget, which we will be approving in a few days in the Chamber of Deputies, has found funds to increase salaries after years of real wages in the Czech Republic. I'm glad she found the money to raise her pensions. The pensions will increase by an average of CZK 200. The salaries of most public budget employees will increase by 3,5 percent. For some of the professions that the previous government has taken 10 percent of the tariff, we are trying to return up to a 5% increase. This concerns policemen and firefighters. I believe that it would be seen as extremely unfair, and not only would it be perceived, but it would be unfair if the legislature approved a much faster rate of wage increases than we are able, for example, to valorize pensions than we are able to raise public sector employees' salaries, that is, for those groups of residents who have not lived lightly and have not lived lightly in recent years. As Prime Minister, I cannot ignore the rest of the company simply to please the Chamber of Deputies. We have submitted a government bill. It was a law on which the government coalition agreed, and we put forward a proposal for wages to grow by 1%. On the basis of the debate held in the Chamber of Deputies, and the matter is fully documented, I have repeatedly expressed my opinion as Prime Minister as a Member that the rate of growth of the salaries of constitutional officials should not be higher than the increase in salaries in the public sector. I believe that an increase of 3,5 percent, and that is the opinion that I have repeatedly said and I am saying it now, is a fair question, that is, that is to say, how the salaries of other public sector employees are rising. We would find it difficult to explain to citizens why it is the Chamber of Deputies, which unfortunately decides on their own salaries, why MEPs have approved a higher salary increase than other public sector employees. That is why I believe that the increase in salaries, which was agreed here at 14 per cent, was disproportionate, and from this point of view, I did not agree with the proposal. I was not present at these meetings. At the moment I was informed of their outcome, I could not express my consent to this proposal, and the leadership of my political party also did not join this proposal. I am glad that at this point in the Chamber of Deputies, we have a bill that will allow us to avoid jumping wages. I regret that the law has been unnoticed here for several months without being discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. We have repeatedly tried to have the proposal discussed in sufficient time. Unfortunately, it did not happen, very often even by the efforts of the opposition. At this point, we are at some time tense, and I think it would be a good idea for us to approve the bill, to approve it in a form that is adequate, which is understandable by citizens as well, and I do not think - and therefore do not apologize for anything, I just keep saying the same thing - that the rate of growth in the salaries of Members and Senators should be higher than the rate of wage growth that we are able to provide through the state budget to nurses, doctors or teachers. It's just the way it is. I see no reason why, at the rate of wage growth, we should distinguish ourselves from other employees who, like us, are dependent on public budget revenue. So much for my position as a Member, as Prime Minister. I believe that the agreement reached at the level of the clubs and the budgetary committee is not appropriate. The increase of 14 per cent is too high and, in my opinion, the agreement should have been negotiated at a lower level in order to reflect the social wage situation and social situation in society. In my opinion, if the House had approved 14 percent, we would not be able to explain this to the ordinary citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u14	Mr. Kalousek, please. Is that a factual point? I apologise, in that case, you have a factual, then another de facto Mr Cernoch and then with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u15	Thank you for the floor. Just two notes. You haven't found money for civil servants, Prime Minister. You borrow from their children and increase the deficit. But that's not the point. What you said about the agreement here is a perfectly legitimate opinion, and we would not be angry if that was the opinion held by your MP. But it was your MP, it was his representatives who came to us and suggested this solution, and we said good, within a hundred percent consensus across the House, 100% consensus across the House is something quite rare, within a hundred percent consensus, we will all hold this. Either way, one of us might have thought otherwise. It's just that the deal was made here. [[18.20 hours]] In 25 years in the public ministry, I have not yet experienced that the agreement of all members of the MPs would be perceived less strongly than the law. It's just the kind of deal that's always been there. You made the precedent for canceling something like this. You basically canceled that term! There's no way we can make a deal between the presidents of the MPs anymore because we don't know if they're gonna pay! We don't give a damn what salaries are gonna be, Prime Minister. It was us who pushed for their reduction and freezing, so we really don't care! But what we don't care is that you're lying now, you're dropping your own club, you're knocking us all down, the Chamber of Deputies, and above all, you've canceled the date of the parliamentary club presidents' agreement. You've made him cease to exist!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u16	Mr Černoch, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u17	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to ask you one thing, Prime Minister. You were talking about nurses, seniors, how low their pensions are. Can I ask you one thing? Why the directors, for example, have hundreds of thousands of salaries, hundreds of thousands of rewards, and still in the form that - today we were talking about how they cared about passengers when there was a calamity. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u18	I apologise to President Stanjur, but there are still two factual points - Mr Opálka and Mr Koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I have been in the Chamber of Deputies since 2002 and we have been working on our own salaries ever since. It started by canceling the 13th and 14th salaries, freezing salaries, then slightly defrosting, then freezing again, then even decreasing, and today actually speaking, the finance minister, who secured the reduction, and the Prime Minister, who confirmed that there was no temporary reduction, but permanent. You know, it's embarrassing to me, but I think it would be a good idea to call on the government to determine by law that the Chamber of Deputies will not determine these salaries, so let the Constitutional Court do it, and he has a lot of experience with it, and I think he can handle it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u20	Mr. koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are swaying around here some public sector and wage growth in the public sector. We were on the election committee recently discussing the report on Czech Television's economy, and if you look at average salaries on Czech Television, there has been an increase of 50 percent in the last ten years!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u22	One more factual one - Mr Blažek. And then it looks like a colleague of Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u23	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna make it simple. Prime Minister... It's not him anymore! Aha! [[Fun.]] I wanted to tell him personally so he wouldn't be dependent on what the press would say or write down from what was said, or I'll tell him myself another time. I won't hold up now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u24	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u25	So the Prime Minister has given us about 21 minutes, which is about ten times less than he's devoted to media performances in the last two weeks on this matter. However, as usual, he did not answer what I asked him. I'll ask Chairman Sklenák to tell us what happened on the microphone. We concluded the agreement on 13 November - the day before the extraordinary meeting, and the day before the formal meeting of the two chambers of Parliament was 25 years from 17 November. I think the Prime Minister was here this morning, he was here in the afternoon, he gave a speech at the Federal Assembly, and today he tells us he didn't know about it. I just can't believe he didn't know. And when he knew about it and he was so upset about it, he should have said it at that special meeting where we were doing our part of the deal, and say, "Watch out, MPs, I don't give a damn about your deal, and that the House has some kind of agreement." I, Bohuslav Sobotka, strongly opposed! But he didn't say that, because the first part of the deal we made was fine with him. And he didn't answer my question today. He's talking about something else again as a cup of coffee! But the key question is: can we make a deal with the chairman of the Social Democracy Club, or can we not? After this experience, I say we can't! He's not rightful thanks to the ČSSD Bureau! He just can't make the deal. Next time, we will know that this is the draft agreement that their party secretariat will consider, but we are not really interested in waiting for the Bureau to comment on this. We've been through this before today, haven't we? Turbulence. Some of your Members have been so worried that they have not even called a committee in order not to be brought into disbelief by the party. So the key question isn't who has what opinion. I told you. If there wasn't an agreement, it's legitimate, and each club promotes its opinion, or some clubs have a similar opinion and so on. I asked why the Prime Minister dropped the deal he knew about. Don't let your colleagues tell you that the Prime Minister didn't know about this. That's just not true! We who have been to these meetings, and I have at least six fellow Members of the MPs who will confirm my words, it is simply not true that the Prime Minister did not know about the agreement. That's when he needed it, then he changed his mind. And that's the whole story! And that is why today and every day we listen to how greedy we are here, how the House is a poorly functioning company, how a trade union boss, who certainly takes twice as much as a MP, tells us how we dare to discuss this at all. But the basic question is different: What is in the current legal order? We've been discussing wage cuts all along, not increases. The government proposes to reduce salaries by 25 per cent, the agreement of Members' Club Chairs was to reduce salaries by 12 per cent. We're not suggesting anything, no increase. That's what's already in the law! And today the government, and I'm sorry, the People's Commission is planning the same thing. So let's think, preferably for 2018, and our followers will be dealing with the same thing we're dealing with that year and what we did three years ago. And that's it. It's gonna work out. The way the Prime Minister lies and says that the opposition wanted to prevent the law from going through the obstructions. The law came here on July 31st or August 1st. Once every four months, and maybe twice, to be generous, someone from the government coalition suggested a solid inclusion of that. Not every day! In the meantime, you have successfully scored about 80 points, but the Prime Minister here is creating a fairy tale about how the opposition's votes were blocking the negotiation of the law. We can see how many times the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, or the President of the club have proposed the inclusion of that point, and why they didn't have a government majority when they had it at other times. You know as well as I do that the opposition may not like it, but the majority decides on the agenda. It's always been like this. The moment we had the majority, we also decided on the agenda for the meeting. I'm not complaining, I'm just stating. I never would have thought at a time when we had a majority, to complain that some point hadn't come up. I would only blame myself and my fellow presidents of coalition clubs for missing something and something didn't come up. Yeah. But I never thought about blaming the opposition for it, because the opposition really doesn't affect it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u26	Thank you to President Stanjur. Since I do not have further applications for a detailed debate, I will conclude the detailed debate and call in my colleagues from the lobby because we will be voting. There was a proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to 48 hours. Before we vote, I assume there is no interest in final words. Madam Secretary? You don't want the final word, I presume. Neither does the rapporteur. There's an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. A new registration, please. As soon as the number on the board is settled, I will begin the vote. We will therefore vote that the Chamber of Deputies reduces the deadline for third reading to 48 hours. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 17. Registered 142, for 87, against 19.This the proposal has been adopted. The deadline has been shortened. I'm done discussing paragraph 7. We are very likely to return to interrupted point 12. I'm gonna ask for a replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-007-007.u27	Let's continue with point number
