ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u1	49. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended (the House Print 221/ - First Reading) We received the Government's position as press 221/1. I welcome Senator Gawlas here, who justifies the motion, and I give him my word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u2	Good evening, thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with a proposal to amend Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic. This is, in principle, a very brief but very necessary amendment to the law, which responds in particular to the issue of shortening the route and bypassing the toll, thereby damaging road roads of lower classes of truck drivers. The initial impulse to prepare the proposed proposal was an extreme increase in these cases, especially in the Czech-Polish border. Drivers here bypassing paid sections and using smaller border crossings designed for passenger transport significantly shorten the route and save for fuel and toll. Of course, this problem does not concern only border areas. It will be very noticeable everywhere where the time and economic advantage of the shorter route outweighs the threat of relatively low existing sanctions, which threaten drivers for breach of the ban mark to ban entry of vehicles whose immediate mass exceeds the stated limit. This proposal was expected to hit Česmad, according to whose representatives the violation of the entry ban is a failure of the inspection authorities and proof of the neglect of road maintenance. With all due respect, I do not consider either of them to be happy. In view of the large number and overall length of third-class and local roads, it is not possible to continuously monitor these communications. Police of the Czech Republic do not have enough members or means for this preventive activity. Besides, the job of the police is much wider, and it doesn't just consist of patrolling the banner plates. What is extremely important from the experience of the mayors and the municipalities and police members concerned is that it is also clear that the existing sanctions do not affect drivers sufficiently preventively. In fact, if they are already caught in this offence, they will have no problem paying the penalty because they have calculated that it will pay them either way economically. The argument about neglecting road maintenance also does not stand because alternative routes leading on higher-class roads have enough drivers, the problem is only that they are usually longer and paid. As a result of the current situation, trucks drivers continue to destroy third-class roads and local communications. In addition, by driving on roads which are not intended at all, endanger safety and disturb the peace of the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned. These roads are often unpaved, without pavements, and sometimes even without proper sidewalks. We can also add increased dustiness and exhalation and we need to realize that these communications often intersect the very centers of the municipalities and sometimes literally by centimeters pass through the fences of family houses. What I'm talking about here is nowhere near an exceptional situation. In exposed places, there is a problem that the municipalities and their mayors have been struggling with for a long time, and it is practically less than a day to prevent a few such clever drivers from appearing there. In such a large operation, it is logical that accidents occur, which may have tragic consequences. I can give you some fresh example that took place last week in Bukovec, Jablunkovsk, where, under an overloaded truck loaded with wood, the side of the road broke off and part of the load spilled onto a new, uncoupled cycle path. Just miraculously, nothing happened to anyone, but all it took was for the accident to happen a few meters away, where the workers were working on the second stage of the cycle path, and the accident could have had tragic consequences. I'd say the cup of patience was overflowing. And to complete the irony of this situation then the truck driver for the reasons of the accident, for the record, said that he avoided the anti-driving truck. Actually, neither of them was supposed to be there. Now to the proposal itself. The current wording of the Act does not know the specific offence for breach of the ban on entry of vehicles whose immediate mass exceeds the stated limit, i.e. prohibition resulting from transport mark No B13. The violation of this prohibition can be qualified only as a violation under § 125 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (k) Law No 361/2000 Coll., on road traffic, which is committed by those who do not comply with or violate the obligation laid down in Title II of this Act in road traffic other than those referred to in points (a) to (j). [[19.00 hours]] In the present case, the obligation to follow the traffic signs is violated. These are set out in Section 4 (b). (c) Road Traffic Act. For this offence it is now possible to impose a fine up to CZK 2 000 in the block proceedings. Sanction is imposed by a member of the Police of the Czech Republic or an officer of the municipal police. In unabbreviated administrative proceedings there is a fine from 1 500 to 2 500 CZK. The Sanction is once again imposed by the competent municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. The proposal submitted under point (k) therefore directly introduces a new offence "infringement of a ban on the entry of vehicles whose immediate mass exceeds the indicated limit'. For this offence, sanctions are proposed from CZK 2,500 to CZK 20,000 in unabated administrative proceedings. It can also be dealt with by a block fine of CZK 2,500 and two points are awarded for it. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has been prepared and is presented with the idea of addressing the highly unsatisfactory current situation in the area of the movement of trucks on roads for this purpose completely inappropriate. I have already presented my reasons. Heavy goods vehicles threaten the health and safety of citizens, and significantly damage the surfaces of lower class communications. Unfortunately, this long-term critical situation has not been dealt with for several years, and I am now asking you to support the proposed amendment to the law. I am, of course, aware of the comments expressed by the Government of the Czech Republic in its opinion, but all factual points are, however, solvable in particular with the knowledge that the situation on certain roads is actually critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u3	I thank the Senator for his very detailed reasoning. I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the reasoning behind the Senator's proposal, in which he has said a number of things that are justified in this proposal. However, at this point, as I have learned information, the government is preparing a comprehensive proposal, which, at one stage, I think is very important, that is the punishment of the wrongdoers, will not only affect the driver but also the shipping company. That is what I think it is important for us to say here, in principle, that the House is somewhat aware of the need, but the government has prepared a comprehensive proposal, and therefore I recommend not to allow this proposal for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u5	Yes. I am opening a general debate. First of all, Mr Laudát was signed in, then Mr Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not gonna be that radical. We will allow this proposal to go to second reading. Mr. Senator is right that the situation needs to be resolved. I don't agree with him, because mostly the superior road skeleton is shorter than the historical routes on which the cars get because even though they have similar directional lines in most places... Ladies and gentlemen, this is all a result of somebody screwing up here, and I mean, I think on purpose, that's my private opinion, the choice of a toll system to run, because in a satellite system... And, of course, the Němec, when they introduced him, the same thing happened to them that the drivers were driving down routes. And then there's no need for any law, nothing, just when the mayor of the village agrees with the administrative authority, he gives and vizzo to the toll operator, he uploads the road to an active map, which is just an operation on a computer that takes minutes. And when someone goes down there, he gets paged, he gets twice the rate, and the reaction times of the drivers before they return to the original superior communication, and it doesn't hurt both the roads and the residents in the localities, it's been a few hours, more or less half a day, to one day. I don't know what the fresh data is, this is from the beginning when they introduced it. It would be good for the government to think instead of doing magic, which it will do again, how it will punish companies and so on. Luckily, the previous minister is no longer here, so I hope the new minister takes it as one of the priorities and makes a fair toll competition so that these things don't have to be dealt with. Another thing is that even the Ministry of Transport was very rigid, and the transport authorities, in that a number of restrictions could have been made artificially already by means of modifications to traffic signs. And I don't know that in some of them, she'd ever do it to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u7	Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator, I understand, of course, the position of the rapporteur, Mr Foldyna, I understand, but in a number of cases, it has already fallen to the government to act in parallel to allow such bills to continue reading. I think it's the best whip to move it. Otherwise, of course, it's a problem. It is currently a problem of a longer-term nature. I don't want to judge how the toll went down here, whether it was the right moment or not. I remember that when tolls started using toll gates, even in the mentioned Germany, there was a little problem with the satellite system, because it wasn't so easy to configure it to work. However, I believe that we should drive the government with this. And I don't really care what toll system it works for. However, the problem is here. I think the mayors of the village expect the House, from this honored assembly, to take action. We have an incentive here, and I'd like us to hold on to that incentive. Finally, I feel that somewhere in the programme we have a parliamentary proposal that should deal with this in a similar way. So I would ask you to support this proposal by sending it to second reading, and we will see how the situation develops. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u9	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Šidlo. I'm just asking my colleagues not to block access to the pitch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u10	So I could go the other way. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, Senator, I want to join my colleague Adamec's challenge in the sense that the KSČM club, thanks to my report on the Senate proposal, is prepared to support this amendment, because we have heard so much about the pigeons on the roofs that the changes that are to come are always promised. Unfortunately, the implementation steps to them are very lengthy. [[Noise in the hall.]] I think the problem is very intense. And while we are able to identify communication, sanctions need to be stepped up clearly, because this is the only possible way to react quickly to the vices that take place on the roads of the second, third classes that are not adapted for these heavy vehicles. And especially in the border. And it doesn't matter if it was a Polish border or if it was a border with the Federal Republic of Germany. They're very acute. The roads are damaged. Unfortunately, drivers, even though of course they are guided by their employers, those carriers, do not respond to any warnings and are not actually able to comply with traffic signs. I think it's a good initiative. We will support it and I believe that it will pass successfully through the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u11	The rapporteur still wants to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u12	I'm done. I'm sorry. I have yet to consult my colleagues in the Economic Committee and we think that we could correct it, respectively. The comments that the government has to include in the second reading. If this is happening on the Economic Committee, I apologize, we could recommend that we continue this law for second reading and order it to the Economic Committee. Thank you, and I'm sorry for reacting so rashly earlier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u13	All right, rapporteur. You didn't suggest anything in the debate, so you have nothing to apologize for. If there are no more applications, I would end the debate. Let me ask you: final words - I don't think so, Mr. Senator. Yes? [[He's interested.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u14	I would just like to thank you for the words and speeches of the Members who supported this proposal. I had one big question. I wonder when the government would prepare a comprehensive proposal. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u15	Yes, thank you. The rapporteur does not ask for the final word. That way we can proceed to the vote. No proposal has been made in the sense of the request for repayment or rejection, so we will only deal with the proposals for the commandment. I have proposed by my decision to order a motion for discussion to the Economic Committee. And I see Mr Schwarz's application here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u16	Good evening again. I would like, Mr President, to suggest a constitutional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-012-049.u17	Yes, you'll be very popular on the constitutional committee. I'm registering. There are no other proposals, so we can vote. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting 96, entry 167, for 149, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now, Mr Schwarz's proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting 97, registered is 167, for 70, versus 25. This proposal has not been adopted. There was no proposal to shorten the time limits. That concludes the first reading of this press, and I note that it has been ordered to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm done with point 49. I thank the Senator and the rapporteur. Item
