ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism and on the amendment of Act No. 40/1964 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on trades and trades (business law), as amended, as amended /German press 276/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. I ask that the rapporteur sit next to her for the first reading of Mrs Martina Berdychová. Madam Secretary, you have a chance to present your first bill. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am standing before you for the very first time, and I would like to use two minutes, and I think I can afford it after this long debate on the state budget. Let me just make a few comments on what I experience here, not only as a minister, but as a citizen of the Czech Republic. I will also try to lighten the atmosphere after this difficult point that we have all experienced. First thing: it's so cold in here. I'm all cold. It's just a technical thing. Next thing you know...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u3	I see the secretary's gotten used to it quickly and got used to it right. I'll ask the House for peace. Because of the fact that the Minister's first speech should have the attention of all of you to the left to the right. And whoever is interested in discussing a press other than that of the 276, let him bring his discussion into the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u4	Thank you. The second thing, and it is very important for all of you, and I repeat that I stand here as a citizen, but also as a minister who is not a Member. You're the legislators, all of you. I thought you were working differently. I thought you had mutual respect. I thought there were no vulgarities. I thought it really worked as the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u5	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u6	Regarding the state budget that has just been discussed here, have you noticed that no woman has spoken? It was an exchange of only men, men's opinions. And I hope that next time I can participate. One more thing about funds, and since everyone calls me an expert on funds. The state budget consists of many billions of prefinancing and co-financing of operational programmes. I would like to remind you that we may not have European funds at all since 2020. And what we are now replacing with co-financing and pre-financing, we will have to look somewhere else. That's my introduction, my two minutes. Thank you to those who are left or will remain to the next point, which I would like to present here for the Ministry of Regional Development. However, I couldn't really forgive myself for this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Regional Development is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic an amendment to Government Bill No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism. In the introduction, I would like to give the reasons why we are presenting this. Then, what are the goals and then what do we expect from this first reading. The main reasons for submitting the amendment are as follows: ensuring greater consumer protection, in particular by preventing the reduction of legal claims of damaged travel agency clients in their bankruptcy by insurance companies. Furthermore, improving consumer information about who is organizing, respectively. organises a tour, the sale of which is facilitated by a travel agency. Further, specifying the provisions governing compulsory insurance of the guarantee in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency. For further, bringing the law into line with the new Civil Code and the amendment to the Trade Act. The last point, the reason I chose as the key, is the introduction of administrative punishment, including the setting of sanctions for travel agents and travel agencies. This measure is due to the amendment of the trade law mentioned. The amendment to the Government Bill was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 9 July 2014 and is almost identical to the proposal already approved by Government Resolution No. 334 of 15 May 2013. The Chamber of Deputies discussed the amendment at first reading. We submit it again because the discussion at second reading was no longer due to the dissolution of the House. Among the most important objectives presented by the amendment to the Government's bill are strengthening greater consumer protection in the field of tourism; the elimination of fraudulent conduct by a travel agent, in particular in relation to compulsory insurance of a guarantee in the event of the insolvency of a travel agent; the introduction of substantive liability of a statutory body or members of a statutory body in the event of failure to fulfil the obligations imposed on them by law; adjustments of a preventive nature concerning the extension of information obligations for both travel agents and insurance undertakings; the introduction of administrative penalties, including penalties for business entities - that is to say, travel agencies and travel agencies which, despite the notification of infringements of statutory obligations, do not fulfil their obligations; Last but not least, the establishment of supervision of compliance with the law, including strengthening the conditions of supervision of the Ministry of Regional Development. The proposed measures should in particular contribute to greater consumer protection, which means citizens of the Czech Republic, customers of travel agencies, to better information. Furthermore, the amendment should ensure the avoidance of fraudulent conduct by certain travel agencies, including the specified conditions of insurance of a guarantee in the event of their bankruptcy. Since the main purpose of the government bill is the maximum effort of us as a petitioner, that means the Ministry of Regional Development, ensuring the protection of customers by travel agencies, I would like to ask for a shorter period of time to discuss the proposed amendments for 30 days. Thus, the law could be effective by 1 April 2015 at the latest. The Government's draft amendment is fully in line with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Finally, I would like to ask you to discuss and submit the amendment to the second reading as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u7	Thank you, Minister Karla Šlechtová, for the opening words. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Martina Berdychová to present her report, and then we will continue to proceed. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has informed you in detail of the proposed amendment to the Tourism Business Act, its main objective. I would merely sum up that, in addition to the main objective of protecting customers and increasing their security in the event of the bankruptcy of travel agencies, the proposal should also contribute to the cultivation of the business environment in the business section of travel agencies and travel agencies. Travel agencies will have a duty -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u9	Madam rapporteur, I will interrupt you too and ask my colleagues again for peace! I asked you to transfer any discussions on another subject to the foyer. Respect that the rapporteur does not have the easiest reading at first, and let the rapporteur present her intelligence report. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u10	Travel agents will be obliged to keep a record of the tours sold and their information obligation to insurance companies is extended. At the same time, the information obligation of insurance undertakings vis-à-vis the Ministry is extended. The proposal of the amendment was already provisionally discussed at the tourism subcommittee with representatives of the resort, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Interior, MIT, representatives of the association of travel agencies and insurance companies. An amendment will be prepared, which will be discussed at the next subcommittee on tourism. I would recommend that this press be discussed at second reading and discussed in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u11	I thank the rapporteur and allow me to make an apology before I launch the debate, which is probably not yet in the protocol, and this is an excuse for Mr Radek Vondráček from today's meeting at 17:00. Now to the open debate. In the open debate, we will first settle the factual remarks made by Mr Stanjura and Mr Votava. Then the priority right of President Tomio Okamura, then the duly applied for by Mrs Fischerová. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u12	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I didn't understand what you said before you started reading the opening word, and I would ask you to explain it to us. Those were incredible words to me. First of all, you're wrong. It wasn't just men. This is the first time a member of parliament has ever been divided here by gender. If you're saying there's no woman out there, at least be careful -- well, it doesn't matter, two or three. [[Someone on the right warns that two or three women have performed.]] You're supposed to talk to the President, not me like this. You said none! [[The speaker raised his voice.]] If there's no two three, then it's consistent with what I said here a minute ago that 75 is over 100. Secondly, we heard that the law was not negotiated because the House was dissolved. This was in August 2013. After 14 months, we get it, and we hear right away that we need to discuss this urgently. What happened 14 months ago when it was here 14 months ago? Why should we hurry? We have a budget! We do not have time to discuss further bills in an accelerated negotiation. Well, it won't be February 1st. When the government has had so much time and after nine months, it presents something that was already here in August of last year, I don't know why we should discuss something quickly again. The only reason?! Or have you been embroidering it for nine months and it's completely different than it was here last time? That is what I would like to hear in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u13	Thank you for keeping time. A factual comment by Mr Votava, then by Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I didn't understand your words. It wasn't a happy performance from you. The state budget is a very serious matter and I may not like the appearance of colleagues from the other side, from the opposition, I may not agree with it, but they have a perfectly legitimate right to comment on the state budget, even if we sit here until midnight. Please, I know you've never been to the Chamber of Deputies, but we should respect this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u15	Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u16	I apologise for entering into this, Mr President, I just want to say that I -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u17	No, sorry, sorry, Mr Martin Novotný. My colleague, Mr Martin Novotný has the floor. That's what I called him. He signed up electronically. Let us respect the Rules of Procedure. [[Member Stupchuk says out loud, this time off the microphone: I want to take a vote and question him.]] Well, of course you can, but I have to respect applications for factual remarks that are electronically, under the Rules of Procedure Act, I have to give the floor to the person who logged in electronically, preferably before the person who came forward from the place. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u18	Colleagues and colleagues, my performance may be a little redundant, because if those words have already been heard from the government coalition, that's probably the most important thing. I'll keep it to a minimum. A well-known statement says no one has a second chance to make a good first impression. Then the Minister failed. And I would like to remind you that the fundamental polarity of who is here for the citizens and who is not here for the citizens is exactly the opposite. Representatives of the people are elected as citizens here. You've become Minister in some way other than an act of choice to people, and I'd like you to understand this matter, and the next time you don't act like that. The opposite thing worked out for me in my life, the opposite. When I was elected the youngest mayor in the Czech Republic at a relatively young age of 32 years, I had no idea that I was the smartest in the world. I have learned more from my older and more experienced colleagues and it has worked for me, and I always have, even though I have started a new one here in the Chamber of Deputies, I am trying to repeat this principle. I didn't start performing here 150 times a day as World Champion, I'm only listening for the first six months, and now I'm starting to talk more. It's always worked out for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u19	Thank you. Now with the factual remark of Mrs Miroslava Němcová, then Štěpán Stupčuk, then Martin Komárek, then František Laudát. Those are actual notes registered at the moment. Please, let us respect that this is electronically indeed under the Rules of Procedure Act. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will allow you to ask the Minister not to be shy, and especially when the state budget is being discussed, I would very much welcome her vote here. Each of the ministers is responsible for a chapter. I lack the appearance of individual ministers in defending their chapters. And if, once the basic parameters of the state budget are approved at first reading, with which it can no longer be moved, I think she had the duty before us, elected representatives of the people, to speak out and defend her chapter very significantly. I consider her not doing this to be a mistake. Her comment, which she had afterwards, I will no longer comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr. Štěpán Stupčuk. Mr Martin Komárek will prepare for a factual remark. All we have so far are factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say for the record that I voted in favour of this proposal at the vote at first reading on the budget and that I have been delayed at high school. So I'd like to state it for the log. I do not question the vote itself. I wanted to do so immediately after I became familiar with this fact. I don't know if a factual point is the right instrument to use it. I thought that a factual point serves to actually respond to the issue under discussion, that is to say, this point. However, what I said before is true. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u23	Thank you, colleague, but I have no choice but to respond really to those applications, so I don't know what you want to say in an open debate. There you go. Now, my colleague Martin Komárek, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as elected legislator, could also train the Minister, but I will not. Just a few notes. For one thing, I envy her that until now she has never watched transmissions from this honourable House, so she couldn't prepare herself for the fact that we elected representatives of the people can high-five what we want, and we can insult ourselves all we want. What I don't envy is that she's gonna have to be here more often.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Mr František Laudát also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u26	Thank you. Unlike the previous speaker, I would recommend to the Minister: Get off the pedestal. You know, being a minister or a minister is a slave. It's an ungrateful job. And if it looks like you're a star now, please sit down and start acting normal. It's not true that there are people like you may have been watching... or what they make us in the media. I know a lot of politicians who flew out of fear. And as soon as they flew up, they flew down. Since I've heard that you've done some very hard work with Minister Prachař, then look, there's a budget, there's a lot of stuff going on here about transport, and the Minister is so afraid he didn't come here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u27	Thank you. Now, Mr Holeček, Mrs Němcová and Mrs Zelienková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I, like my colleague Stupčuk, voted against today's vote in favour of the vote, and I am in favour of the steno-recording. [[♪ On the rocks ♪]] Well, just for the Steno, I'm not questioning the vote. Here's the information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u29	Thank you. Information for the screen recording. Now, Mrs Němcová, on a point of fact. Then Mrs Zelienková also made a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Although I do not like to speak, with a few words for Mr Komárek, please. I'm tired of hearing you talk about how disappointed you are with what's going on in the House. As if you, as a political commentator, a longtime journalist, do not understand what is at the heart of a democratic institution called the Chamber of Deputies, namely the Senate, or the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That this is an opinional conflict, where long, sometimes painfully looking for a solution for which most raises their voice and at that moment begins to apply. I think the arguments that the Minister is a happy woman who has not seen the House so far are completely misguided, and they are populist and demagogic in that they manipulate the public and constantly confirm that the House is a choir of incompetent blabbermouths who have just accidentally made it to the Chamber of Deputies. And I refuse to accept this humiliation of the important role that the legislature takes on from you! And from anyone! Madam Secretary was supposed to find out what chair she was sitting on, she should have known what it meant. We can't pretend he's a loser here, and now he's exposed to something she didn't count on. You shouldn't have sat in that chair!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs... [[It still takes applause.]] ... Mrs Zelienková, then with a factual remark, respectively. with a priority... Madam Secretary, I have a question. Are you reporting with a factual remark? With a factual remark from Mrs Zelienková. [[Mrs Zelienko is giving up her notes.]] You're interrupting. Then, Minister Šlechtová, a point of fact. Please, you have two minutes, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u32	Thank you for all the comments I've earned towards my initial speech. On the contrary, I would like to say that I am surprised that you did not welcome that someone who is really new here can express himself out loud without any pain and courage. [[The noise in the hall.]] I would like to say that Minister Šlechtová sat in that chair and accepted the offer to be a minister for real reasons. I am aware of what I went into, I have read the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and I know how this works. I said in the introduction that I would take two minutes to give you my opinion as a citizen. If the Chamber of Deputies is unable to respect and accept this, if there is someone new, then I must say I'm a little sorry. Anyway, I've learned my lesson. From now on, I will behave like all Members, act like a minister, and in this way we will continue to communicate. I consider my actions and my introduction to be correct to all of you, and I understand your comments. And I'm glad it did, and thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u33	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u34	So the secretary is whispering that he's a media lover, so maybe the way she got off here. If it were true what the Minister said, how she studied it and how she knew it, she would know that she could not begin with a factual reminder of two minutes. I don't blame her, she's the one who taxed herself, how she learned everything, how she knows. And that she was a citizen here. The citizen has no right to speak in the Chamber of Deputies with a factual reminder. It is the privilege of the Member and the Minister. Then don't play here. Rules of procedure. We tolerated it. We talked about content, not that you, as a rookie in the Chamber of Deputies, started with a factual reminder at the moment when it cannot be. And you're gonna apologize, but you're gonna insult us again at the same time. I don't accept that kind of apology. I bravely said what I thought of you. Well, those guys were talking about the budget... Mrs Němcová rightly said - so why didn't you step up to the budget? After the debate that has x hours, you will tell us: next time I will come forward. But you could have done that in the seven eight hours we spent here together. Maybe we'd be interested. You inherited the chapter, I understand you couldn't control it. But you didn't tell us anything. But after the battle, every general. And I say, for the first time and I hope that for the last time, someone has divided the members of the Chamber of Deputies by gender and said who is to perform and who is not to perform!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u35	Thank you. Now, if I succeed, Mrs Fischerová will be duly applied for. Sorry, I'm sorry, with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura. I'm sorry about Colleague Fischerová. I called ahead. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also want to apologize to Mrs Fischerová, because we have been working together for 20 years in a travel agency association, but I have reported seriously earlier, and I would therefore like to speak. I am sorry, Jana, so I am, please, through the President. There. I wasn't really involved in those factual remarks, as you saw. It seemed really inadequate overall. I'm used to being gallant about women. And as I said, as we gave this government a hundred days of defense and kept it honest like Dawn, remember those months ago, we gave it a hundred days of defense honestly, and we didn't define ourselves, neither did the Minister. Someone's always new once, so I'd like to establish factual cooperation and certainly not just give a hundred days of defense. And as a gentleman, at least I'm trying to, I certainly refuse to pick on Madam Secretary personally. So that's what I'd say. And I'm going to wait for a real job rather than a show and a comedy that's repeatedly shown here by all sides. As for the proposal in particular, so that I can already comment on tourism. First, I'd like to set the record straight when we're talking about a government proposal. This gives the impression that this government may be fighting for consumer rights and that it may be doing something other than other governments and that it may bring about some changes in this regard. Well, the Tourism Act - I've been moving to the Ministry of Regional Development for 15 years from the position of a person who is in charge of the largest travel agency association in the Czech Republic - that law has been going there for many and many years. So it's not the government's proposal, it's the government's proposal, I don't know what it is anymore, and it's been going on for an incredibly long time. Another thing is why it's taking so long again. Because the truth is, we've lost almost another year, and I'd like to say that the law is really important, even though tourism doesn't involve many people here. But I'd just say one number that speaks for everything. In the Czech Republic, 2.2 million are sold annually. tours. In the ten million Czech Republic. Please, it concerns virtually all citizens of the Czech Republic what we will discuss here sooner or later. I would just briefly and briefly summarize this, because the Minister here has already said a number of things, why both we and the tourism professionals, I as Vice President of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies, welcome this, is above all the increased consumer protection. That is why we strongly support the adoption of the Tourism Act. We certainly support this issue too - and you have experience with it many of you, that you buy tours at a travel agency and it is hard to learn which travel agency is really organizing it. That is also what this law is about, the better information. Furthermore, many consumers always ask about our association whether the travel agency is insured and with whom. Today it was only on the list of insurance companies, it should be centrally in the Ministry's list, which is certainly also an excellent shift. And most importantly, what is the fundamental shift is, and this is where a whole range of consumers end up in a bad situation, and it's dealt with every year that insurance companies are 100% non-fulfiled. In the event of the failure of a travel agency that there is no 100% performance there, the insurance company is resisting it and this law newly states that the insurance undertaking is to meet all the legitimate claims. This means that we are really moving the rights of consumers in a rather important and fundamental way. What we are accusing this law of, and unfortunately, we did not agree on a subcommittee, is that unauthorized business is not being dealt with. Slovák have it resolved in the law, I don't know why it still doesn't work in the Czech Republic. That means tours organized in black. And I don't mean schools, of course, I don't mean any such facilities. I mean, those entrepreneurs who, under the cover of a trade license, organize tours for a travel agency and don't want to insure themselves and go around. What should now be the content of the amendment, on which we have agreed completely apolitically and professionally on the subcommittee, are two questions - the regulation of insurance limits, I would no longer discuss it here, so that there is no discrimination against smaller travel agencies or those that may be imported by tourists, but they sell tours on the one hand just as, I would say, such marginal activity and at the same time they are professionals and they are functional agencies. The second is also the possibility to prohibit travel agencies without prior notice from concluding tour contracts, which we think is inadequate and that there should be some time limit for redress. So here we have agreed. I hope that, together with the Minister and the subcommittee, this proposal will be tabled in this sense and we will discuss it, and I expect the House to accept it without any difficulty, because at the moment we have the agreement on the subcommittee. So this law is completely apolitical. We've been working on it for years, so it fell to this government. I'm sure he needs to be accepted. I'm sure it would be pretty good when it comes to the briefing, 'cause the season is coming up, and the clients could be better protected. The sooner the better. However, there is, of course, the question on the table, why are we waiting here again for a year? That is, of course, true, but the sooner it is accepted, the better it will be, because sales of tours for the next season are already beginning and, again, millions of consumers can be in an inadequate situation, and we would like to protect those consumers in the Úsvit movement, so that they can actually be 100% sure that they will receive services for that, or if they are adequately protected in some way by their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u37	I thank Mr Okamur for his speech. Mr Velebný's point of fact now, then Mrs Fischerová. Mr Velebný, I don't see him, so he's failing his application with a factual remark. Mrs Fischerová, on a proper application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u38	Thank you for the floor. I wish you all a pleasant evening. And yet I've come to the point, so I'm very glad. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also address the comments in question. I will follow the previous words of Mr Tomio Okamura, who has already spoken about the specific things that the draft of the Government amendment contains, but I will also remember because it is true that tourism is very close to me. When we talk about the goals we want to prove with this amendment, it is mainly the protection of travel agency clients. We all agree on that. Yeah. But now how it happens. We've heard some concrete suggestions here. I remember 1997. At that time it was the first big travel agency - Travela - and left large numbers of people abroad. They didn't get back. And it wasn't just that their repatriation wasn't secured, but it was taken away by a number of smaller travel agencies that ended up with their business as part of their second insolvency. And that is precisely what I want to emphasise here, what has not been said here today. There are two associations of travel agencies, i.e. professional associations of travel agencies and possibly agencies, and they have approached each other over time, and they have the same views on this amendment, which is very important to me, because if someone is fighting for something in common, it is good that they have found common solutions. This amendment to Law 159, as it is called among professionals, has gone through a really long debate. Since 2010, but only last year did the first reading pass, as has already been said, but it fell under the table. And now we are at the first reading submitted today. I've always watched it be included in the Chamber of Deputies' agenda, and it didn't come in any way until today, so it's okay. But unfortunately, this amendment to Law 159 was not completely preceded by an external commentary procedure. I saw why not, and I found that Minister Jiří Dienstbier, Minister for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, on 4 April, I also have a reference number, allowed no commentary to be made on the bill's proposal. This led to the fact that the subsequent discussion took place only after that and now certain adjustments are needed in this amendment to the law. As the rapporteur said, Mrs Martina Berdychová, we are gathered as a subcommittee on tourism. It was 2. 9. 2014 wasn't that long ago. There were really gathered actors who were appointed here, i.e. associations of travel agencies, representatives of ministries, already appointed here, representatives of the Czech Insurance Association, and there was a conclusion there. It was a matter of fact. I was delighted to see progress in this regard. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] But comments were made on the basis of the meeting. Mr Tomio Okamura mentioned them here, but I am going to point out exactly what is going on. It's basically two main things. First of all, these are limits that need to be fulfilled as travel agency insurance. At present, just for your information, I will say that the Czech Republic has one of the highest insurance limits. For the sake of clarity, it's 30% of the annual travel agency sales. Travel agencies must create a year in advance a business plan and then take 30 per cent of it. It is the highest figure that exists within the European Union. Otherwise, on average, it is between 8 and 15 percent. And now it's proposed in the amendment that there should be at least one million or four million insurance limits. One million is for travel agents who use the transportation of clients by coach, and four million for air tours. However, as I have spoken to both associations and many tourism entrepreneurs, this aspect is totally discriminatory for them. Thanks to these limits, many travel agencies may end, especially those small ones that fill the gaps in our market, and they are such offices that have special programs, whether it be for gardeners, for disabled people, for conservationists. I know a lot of these smaller travel agencies, and it would be like a whole series of new unemployed people again. I think it would be really discriminatory. I wanted to draw attention to these two limits, which are newly designed. And the second thing is that there is no limit to the level of performance for insurance companies, because they will not want to enter if the upper limit they have to meet is not determined. For information: How many insurance companies do you think there are on the Czech market that offer this? There's six of them. And the turnover they're dealing with in terms of travel agencies isn't so noticeable. It is an insignificant amount of turnover for them, so it can happen that if there was no agreement, in the end no insurance company will want to negotiate this insurance. Having also heard various remarks here, I conclude that it is really still necessary to discuss properly in the committee's due date, depending on the consensus, all these options and to make amendments. I'm fully applying. Moreover, if this is not possible, I see this amendment as impassable. Only if there is sufficient time to do so. Especially the aspects I was talking about. There was such a phrase here today during the budget discussion. There were different phrases, but there were fingers crossed. So I wish you luck to make a deal, because for many tourism entrepreneurs, this is really binding. Let's work, but in due course. I am opposed to shortening the date for committee discussions. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u39	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová, for her performance. I have two more applications for the debate. First Member Miroslav Kalousek, then colleague Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u40	Thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me if I bring a slightly different agenda into the negotiations, but Members of the TOP 09 feel so offended by an unprecedented speech by the Minister that we will take a one-hour break and discuss how we will stand up to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-007-018.u41	Mr Seďa, although I have announced him, but given that this is a matter which is decided without debate under the Rules of Procedure, I have no choice but to call a break for the TOP 09 meeting, to interrupt this point and to interrupt today's Chamber of Deputies until tomorrow morning by nine o'clock. We will continue tomorrow morning at nine o'clock under the Rules of Procedure Act, that is to say by replying to the Prime Minister's written interpelations, and according to the resolution approved today, we can present any changes to the programme after 11 o'clock. I would like to point out to my colleagues that no one will be summoned to change the program at nine o'clock, and the meeting will be over by now. Have a good evening, and I'll see you tomorrow.
