ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and on Amendments to Certain Acts (Authorisation Act), as amended, and Act No. 151/1997 Coll., on the valuation of assets concerning the amendment of certain laws (Act on the valuation of assets), as amended /German press 70/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we also agree with this bill in the first reading. I now ask, under the authority of the Government, that the proposal put forward by the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the proposed amendment to the Copyright Act, which we are discussing now, is to ensure that the Czech Republic's obligation to transpose two copyright directives into the rule of law is fulfilled. It is Directive 2011/77 amending the Directive on the period of protection of copyright and certain related rights and Directive 2012/28 on certain permitted uses of orphan works. The urgency of discussing and approving this exclusively transposition amendment as soon as possible is due to the fact that the European Commission has already launched the so-called "European Commission." formal notice of 27 January this year's proceedings against the Czech Republic for failure to comply with the deadline set for the transposition of one of these directives. The failure to comply with the deadline was because, as a result of the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which had already discussed this proposal as House Press 1002 in the first reading, the legislative process could not have been completed last year. The proposal is therefore submitted again by the Government in the same form. [[It's busy in the hall.]] And now for the novel's own content. The first of the transposition directives extends the period of protection of rights to music recordings. In order for musicians and singers to benefit from their early recordings even at a late age, their rights to recordings will be extended from 50 to 70 years of age. In the same way, the rights of recording companies will be extended, but they will have to provide these artists with additional rewards from the use of these recordings during the extended period of protection. The calculation of rights for musical works with text will also change if they are created for joint use, as is typical of compositions of popular music or operas or musicals. The term of protection will not end in these cases until 70 years after the death of the last of the authors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u3	Excuse me, Minister. I apologize, and again I ask the President of the MPs, in particular, to set an example, and the Ministers and the Presidents of the political parties, even on the right, if they would be so kind as to go outside and take it out. Thank you very much. Minister, please continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u4	Thank you. The transposition of this Directive also required one amendment to the property valuation law, since for the purposes of the valuation of all property rights related to copyright law, it is still counting on a period of 50 years. The second directive concerns the so-called orphaned works and orphaned sound recordings, i.e. works or records not yet protected, the author or other rightholder of which is not known or untraceable. In addition to the definition of orphan works, an exception is introduced from exclusive copyright in favour of cultural and educational institutions and public broadcasters. These institutions with a mission in the public interest will thus be able to digitise and make available on the Internet, subject to the conditions of orphaned works and audio recordings. The new regulation should, in particular, help projects to digitise pan-European cultural wealth by allowing the use of previously blocked works. Due to the proceedings initiated by the European Commission against the Czech Republic, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues have proposed to the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to this bill at first reading. Although the overall length of proceedings against the Czech Republic may last for more than a year, it may seem that there is still sufficient time, I believe that a short hearing is appropriate. As I've already submitted, the amendment is exclusively transpositional. At the same time, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Culture is currently preparing another amendment to the copyright law. When discussing it, there will certainly be room to apply your possible proposals for other provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u5	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the Foreign Minister and the President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy to go elsewhere - which the Foreign Minister cannot because he is now one of the few members of the government. [[The only one in the ministerial desks.]] Thank you. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jiří Pospíšil. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a brief report on the bill in question. As has already been said, and I therefore confirm this, it is in principle only the transposition of two directives into our national legal order, with the fact that it is good to say here, it did not quite say that at the time of adoption of these directives, the Czech Republic was one of the opponents of the first directive and formed a blocking minority. However, after this group of states, which did not agree with the directive, had somehow broken up, the directive came into force, subsequently also effective, and that is why we are now translating these international, respectively. European sources of law into our legal order. So it is definitely debatable especially the first part of how much it is or is not appropriate to extend the length of the author, respectively. powerful artist property rights to his recording. This must certainly be debated, but on the other hand, we have no choice but to insert this European regulation, to accept, to transpose into our legal order. So it is good to say here that the main change, where the Czech Republic held a restraining position, concerns the directive, which, as the Minister has already said, says, among other things, that the rights of performers, but also the rights of producers of sound records in the property plane are extended from 50 to 70 years. This means all license obligations and others will be extended by 20 years. I will not contradict here the justification of the European Union, which is a little bit, I would say, smiling. The main reason is that the average age of the performer is extended and therefore has the right to longer protection. So I take it this argument isn't quite the case, I'd say, the right one, however, as I said before, it's a fact. We can discuss this, but there's nothing we can do about it. [[16.00 hours]] Thus, property rights are extended from 50 to 70 years and related licensing and other procedures. Of course, this will affect the costs that the end user will then pay. This must also be admitted publicly here and this is how it is said. What I consider to be good and what is probably not disputed, and it has also been said by the Minister, is an effort to unite the different length of time counting for those works where there are more authors - the music author and then the author of the text. Operas, musicals, etc. were mentioned here. It is a fact that each state calculates this time in a different way and then, at European level, problems arise by how the different national legal systems of the Member States of the European Union regulate this differently. So I think this is a good provision that will eliminate some of the problems related to counting, let's say, the property copyright, when the author of more people, someone is writing a text, someone is making music. What is also important, and what has also been said here, I call it that, is the new legislation on the use of so-called. orphaned cannons. As has been said, these are works where the author is not known or untraceable. In practice, the problem arises because if the holder of property copyright is not known, then it is difficult to issue a licence and it is difficult to deal with such a work. So it's logical that you have to have so-called. so-called legislation. legal licenses, if you want, or let's say have legal reasons and legal procedure, how such works can be used, even if those 50 or 70 years have not passed in the future, when the author, although unknown, has property rights and has rights of income from such works. I think it is a good thing that orphaned works are spoken of in this way and such an adjustment is introduced. However, it must be admitted and said here that, at European level, the legislation of orphan works raises a debate among experts, and it is a question of how effective the regulation that is now being introduced is, and how far in the future the European Union will not have to reach for further and better use and handling of orphaned parts, because what is being introduced in that directive is more or less a very narrow range of possibilities of use, and it can be expected that we will still be able to meet further legislation on the part of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, so much has a brief report and a light comment on the text submitted by the law. I confirm here the Minister's words that this is indeed a pure transposition. There is nothing additional to that which is related only to the reasoning and the idea of the appellant. That is why, of course, it is up to you to approve this proposal at first reading. As has already been said, a complaint letter was sent to the Czech Republic on this matter and it is therefore possible to expect further action from the European Union towards the Czech Republic if there is no adoption of legislation in the order of months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I open the general debate, I have two apologies. From today's meeting, Minister Jiří Dienstbier apologizes for personal Putnová. I am opening a general debate, in which I first have Mrs Putnová's point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u8	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I think the Minister has shown us well through the history and fate of this proposed amendment and has shown that we have already met it at first reading in the last parliamentary term. This amendment was ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports. I believe that it deserves a proper discussion, however familiar we have been with the fact that we are in a certain time frame. That is why I have to disagree with our first reading to praise this novel. I hereby pronounce the veto of the two TOP 09 MPs and the ODS with the approval of the proposed amendment at first reading. At the same time, I recommend that this amendment be discussed by the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u9	Thank you, Madame. I have noted the veto of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09 and Mayors to discuss this bill in accordance with Section 90. Who, then, will continue to report to the general debate? If no one continues to report, I am ending the general debate. I have here a motion for the commandment of this bill to the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports. I don't see any motion to shorten the deadline. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to this committee for discussion. Does anyone else have any other proposal on the commandment of the committee? No, thank you. I therefore initiate the vote on the commandment of this motion for discussion of the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 42. Of the 165 Members present for 135, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports. That concludes the first reading of this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-012-015.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let us proceed to the next point under consideration. It's...
