ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u1	17. Proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Petr Adam, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, David Kádner, Martin Lank, Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of the constitutional law on the national referendum and amending the Constitution of the Czech Republic /German press 114/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House press number 114/1. I ask that Mr Tomio Okamura, Mr Tomio Okamura, take their seats at the rapporteur's table and, at the same time, I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Vlastimil Vozka. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I now ask Mr Tomio Okamura to present this draft constitutional law. I understand you, Mr Member, so I will ask my fellow Members for peace and, if necessary, the Minister and the Member to transfer the debate to a place other than... Mr Minister of Foreign Affairs and Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, I ask that my debate, which certainly does not concern the Constitutional Act on referendums - so that they leave the table for the plaintiffs free so that Mr Tomio Okamura can make his proposal and justify it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been before the first discussion of the law on a national general referendum in this House since the autumn elections last year. This proposal of ours finally introduces real democracy into the Czech Republic, and in its full text it fulfils Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that a constitutional law can determine when the people exercise state power directly. Let me repeat here a few basic arguments for direct democracy, with the citizens' right to vote on the laws and other important matters of their lives. In the Eurobarometer investigation, respondents from 15 European Union countries agreed with 71,5 % to 8.5 percent that the Swiss system of direct democracy works well and should also be implemented in their home countries. The majority of US citizens also demand direct democracy. Between 1999 and 2000, there was the largest survey of direct democracy ever carried out in the United States of America. Only 13.2 percent of respondents opposed direct democracy, and 68 percent of Američan were in favour of its introduction. No state of the US, in which the institutes of direct democracy at state level were once approved, has given up and other states are introducing these institutes. In terms of the proportion of votes for and against nationalities, both in the US and in the European Union, it is essentially dependent on citizens' awareness. Where a referendum has already taken place recently, where some elements of direct democracy already work, the percentage of votes for direct democracy is higher. Experience and practice show that direct democracy works well. That is why the citizens are asking for its strengthening. If anyone decides against it, it is from the knowledge of myths and untruths that rule over direct democracy. Who spreads these myths and untruths? After all, politicians and economic elites connected to them. These include a number of intellectuals, for whom a citizen is a stupid sheep, which must not interfere with the rule of the country. Let's look at history. After experience with elites, French President Charles de Gaulle came to the contrary when he said: "I have come to the conclusion that politics is too serious to be left to politicians alone. " So let me paraphrase Charles de Gaulle: "Democracy is so serious for many politicians that it does not allow citizens to make democratic decisions about it. " Economic evidence, surveys and statistics show that where there are more elements of direct democracy, the economy and citizens are far better off. Specifically, in the United States, for example, in 2004, Bloomberg did research on the subject and found that 20 percent more public spending was wasted in US states where referendums did not work. Likewise, economists in Switzerland compared cantons, i.e. self-governing units within Switzerland, and found quite clear statistics that say that where citizens have greater rights in the field of direct democracy, they have better economic results, lower tax evasion, lower debt, lower taxes, lower public spending, but paradoxically cheaper and better public services. Representatives tend to spend public money and it turns out that referendums are effective tools to correct this irresponsible behaviour. The truth is that where citizens vote on laws and can even overvote or revoke Members, they often have surplus budgets, and the world wonders!, while the state spends less on public spending, public services are better than in states where budgets and spending are decided by politicians without responsibility to voters. So it's not only stupid to say that direct democracy is expensive and we can't afford it. No, my dear colleagues, the current pseudo-democracy is expensive and we can no longer afford it. Or do you think citizens would allow us to steal the republic as our fellow politicians in recent years? That citizens would allow the privatization of wealthy state companies for symbolic change and, on the contrary, that citizens would allow the state to pay for the damage and debts of thieves and fraudsters? That they would allow the prosecution of hundreds of frauds like President Klaus? Even the biggest schnitzel can't claim that citizens are stupid enough to admit that. But whoever admitted this wasn't citizens. They were social, political and economic elites. Supporters of the purely representative system claim that citizens have voluntarily given their mandate to their representatives, and they therefore have the right to make decisions. However, they ignore the fact that this kind of mandate creates an internal contradiction. Legitimate mandate is a legitimate gift. It can only be donated voluntarily. Volunteering means that a citizen must be able to donate the mandate, but to choose the right to make a direct decision through a referendum. The mandate enforced is a false stolen mandate. In this context Friedrich Nietzsche writes that parliamentarianism, that is, the official permission to be able to choose from five political points of view, is popular among many who would like to look independently and individualistic in the fight for the promotion of their opinions. In the end, however, there is no difference between forcing the flock to take one view or allowing it to hold five views. Our current representative democracy is a form of semi-democracy. It is a concession of powerful pressures from the bottom, but a concession that preserves power for the elite as a privilege. One of the complaints against our proposal is that politicians do not want citizens to vote on taxes. But damn it -- forgive me for this rougher expression -- who else should be able to decide taxes than the one who pays them? Such self-righteousness, when politicians are indebting the country against the will of citizens, is the country's rudest contempt for its citizens. Politicians say that citizens are not legal enough to determine what taxes will be paid. It is, of course, the opposite in advanced democracies. In Switzerland, for example, the government cannot deliberately determine the amount of taxes, but, for example, in any tax increase, it must ask its citizens for their consent. Of course, citizens will not allow theft and waste of public money in this context. Also in many states of the US, the model of our right, there is a vote on taxes. Oddly enough, voters did not cancel their taxes as opponents of the referendum try to push us, but the truth is, in many cases, they have been reduced. What was the result? To the ruin of states? Oh, no. Only one thing could be expected. The state administration was and can only be saved and more efficient. Pretty logical. Because, on the one hand, there is great pressure after the lowest possible taxes and spending, and on the other hand, there is pressure for the state to do the best possible service. For as little money as possible. I think this is the trend and goal that we, too, should be aiming at - low taxes and at the same time effective in becoming top-notch services. Another argument against our bill on referendum is that politicians refuse to have people vote on the dismissal of politicians or the abolition of the Senate, but this too is a principle that is consistent with real democracy. Every politician is an employee of his constituents. And if he fails his constituents, cheats them, becomes useless or doesn't work as he should, then a citizen, like any other employer, must have the right to revoke his employee. Even here, there's no threat of massive abuse. In all countries where the rebuttal of politicians is legal, it is rather a precautionary measure, which is applied only exceptionally in practice. The institution of revocability serves as a filter that discourages spineless careerists or cheaters from politics. It is quite absurd when we have Members in prison and there is no way to call them off in any way. Of course, a Member or President may also fall into a coma, go crazy, and even in such cases it is not possible to dismiss a Member, a Senator or a President. That's absurd nonsense. One thing's for sure. Whatever the House decides today, and real democracy, dear friends, citizens will still make their way. It is up to us whether we, as politicians, face it and accept the fact that citizens are the ones who have the main say in this country that they are the masters and we are the politicians who represent them and represent the interest of the citizen. I therefore ask those of you to vote in favour of the referendum laws at least for those politicians who represent citizens to release them to second reading. We can then modify them so that we can find a common consensus, because in the Úsvit movement we are aware that we have only 14 votes, and we can therefore modify them together and fill in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic as quickly as possible. I believe there will be a majority of you in the event of a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Tomio Okamur. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vlastimil Vozka, with his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the press 114, I would like to inform you of the necessary information. The draft law on the national referendum is presented to the House as an initiative by Members submitted on 29 January. The proposal was sent as press 114 and was assessed by the Government on a legal date and its opinion was sent to Members on 3 March as press 114/1. The Government has justified its position and expressed its opposition to the bill, and I fully agree with these reservations, which the Government has enshrined in its position. He presented the proposal in detail, respectively. the external circumstances of this law, Mr Tomio Okamura. At this point, I do not see the need to complement his comments in any way, because you have all met press 114. Just in general. The explanatory memorandum states that this is historically a 17th attempt to adopt a law governing this issue. Nevertheless, the petitioners take their own course. Unfortunately, even in an effort to be as friendly as possible to the good intentions of the petitioners, it must be noted that the proposal contains a number of shortcomings. First of all, the referendum is introduced on such a broad scale that it would, in essence, change the balance of current representative democracy so far. The basic parameters of the number of citizens, Members or Senators can also affect the functioning of the state, and in such a referendum there can also be intervention in constitutional laws. It is also possible to intervene in budgetary issues, i.e. state funding or taxes. This is certainly not a topic for a referendum. Also, frequent use of referendums means a considerable burden on the budget. The available Coalition Treaty also provides a solution for the coalition's referendum procedure, where the Treaty contains a text: We will submit a draft Constitutional Act on a general referendum on the basis of a popular initiative that will enable citizens to hold a referendum on fundamental issues of the functioning of the state. I believe that the constitutional law needs to be prepared and properly discussed by the government with a proper inter-ministerial commentary procedure. In particular, because there is no danger of delay, I therefore propose to reject the draft law according to press 114. More detailed in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Radim Fiala, then Mr Tomio Okamura and then Members who are on the list of proper applications, came forward with the first priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, before I say what I originally wanted to say, I will respond to the rapporteur. He himself said it was already the 17th proposal, I believe that there might be 20, maybe 30, and then the referendum will pass anyway, because what is happening is completely unsustainable. The criticisms against the referendum are still the same. Imperfectly prepared design, wide possibility of influencing anything etc. But that is what the referendum is about, so that not elites and elitists can decide, but citizens can decide. Whether or not we accept the possibility of a referendum is primarily a moral issue and, therefore, a value court. I personally say that church restitutions not approved in a referendum are immorality. I personally say that the approval of a fiscal pact or possible accession to the euro will be immorality. And I say that there have been such immorality enough to learn and not to repeat past mistakes. In fundamental matters relating to the lives of families and property, people have a natural right to make decisions. Those who fear referendums are afraid of true democracy. Things aren't that we have stupid people here that smart politicians have to make decisions for. Deciding smart politicians has put this country in a situation where our national debt amounts to CZK 1 trillion 680 billion. The only thing we have to get used to is explaining to people the problems that concern them, and that is the crucial role of politicians from the very beginning, and that is why we have been going through the policies. Apparently, some political parties believe that their work lies in lies or false electoral promises. It is clear, then, that there must be fear of referendums. And that's good. If the ODS and TOP 09 weren't afraid of referendums, I would get nervous and explore the reason why these two parties are calm. But they're not. They know well that once the constitutional vision of our statehood is fulfilled, there will be no room for idle electoral promises. That's the vision we went to the Chamber of Deputies with, and that's our election vow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u7	I thank Mr Radim Fial for his speech. Now, Mr Tomio Okamura in the debate and Mr Martin Lang will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the general debate, I would like to discuss in more detail the criticisms of the government on our law, because that is, of course, what needs to be said. We received seven complaints, and I took them gradually, very briefly. Firstly, the government is blaming our proposal for a referendum that leads to a weakening of representative democracy. Well, that's really new! Yes, of course, because direct democracy is strengthening. Well, if this is the number one complaint, then that's a smile coming from the very beginning. Rite number two: We are accused that the law introduces a disparate constitution of a bill adopted in a referendum, which is effectively superior to other laws, because it can only be changed by a referendum and cannot be changed by Parliament. This can lead to problems because of the great rigidity. Come on, folks, of course, because it's the price for a referendum to be an expression of the people's highest will, so I'm shaking my head over these grievances, perhaps the government is making a complete joke. Third, the law is not sufficiently linked to the Constitution. So this is extremely hypocritical, because we, and I've already said it at press conferences, have taken directly into the hands of a draft of the CSSD from previous years and only changed parameters there. This means that the ČSSD itself proposes a referendum law, which we deliberately took as a basis so that the ČSSD cannot make excuses that our proposal is poor quality, which is what we have been making on purpose in the past. We change the parameters - and they say he's not connected to the Constitution. Well, they didn't mind before, and now it's another excuse. Fourth: According to the government, the referendum, for example. he can't act on taxes anymore by definition. That's just talk, that's what I said in my opening speech. Fifth: there is no minimum quorum for the adoption of a referendum. That's a really beautiful complaint! Not only is it possible to adjust it in the second reading, but it is particularly interesting, and it is a pity that it is not here, because the greatest criticism of our proposal is the Human Rights Minister Mr Dienstbier here, it seems to me that he is beginning to be Minister of Minorities and not the human rights of most Czech citizens, and he says that this is not an unlimited treaty, but Mr Dienstbier may have been elected to the Senate in the second round. This means a warm spot, when someone chooses it, and other senators, 15 percent of the eligible voters, except for six years per million crowns a year, nobody cares, and the voice of a citizen has, I would say, a heavy weight, but when the same voice of a citizen actually wants to decide on a specific law, which is the choice of a political party is actually the choice of a set of laws, a set of electoral programs, then suddenly the voice of a citizen has a different weight and suddenly there is a need for a kvorum. This is, in fact, primarily, the senators question their own mandate, because if the voice of a citizen has a double weight, that is news to me, I have not read this in the Constitution, and at the same time, everyone should probably resign, because 15 percent of the votes are probably not enough, and especially for all elections in the Czech Republic, unlimited calls apply. That means in the sense that there is no limit to thevorum. [[16.20 hours]] This means that 40 percent of the electorate took part in the elections a year ago, and that is not the problem in the second round of 15 percent of the electorate. So I don't understand why it's a problem now that, in fact, those people who don't participate in the elections automatically give a mandate to those who participate in the elections to decide for them. That's a common principle here. Rumor number six. The law does not deal with possible interference with administrative proceedings and the pre-trial stage of criminal proceedings. Again, the only thing I can say is that our proposal is based on a draft of ČSSD, which also did not consider it necessary to deal with it. So I don't understand the argument we're hearing right now. And I would conclude by saying that, given these particular complaints that I have gradually taken from all of us here, what the government is accusing us here, I have no choice but to say that the government's position is completely unconstructive, politically hateful, defamatory at all costs. And we were really expecting a constructive debate here, not a zero tolerance for opposition proposals. And only if I briefly recapitulate our proposal. That's because there was a debate before me with my previous speaker, so that the referendum wouldn't be frequent. Well, that's a real populist high-five for those who aren't informed. And I'm sorry, it's nothing personal that I just said, I'm sorry. Because we propose that a petition be required for a referendum of 100,000 signatures, folks. A hundred thousand signatures! This means that in reality, it is similar to those in many Western countries where it is between 1 and 2 percent of the eligible voters. And 100,000 signatures are collected by citizens maybe once a year, maybe every two years on some kind of religious restitution theme, maybe the euro, maybe some kind of forceful topic. This means that our bill is not that the Czech Republic should follow referendums. On the contrary, it is merely a control mechanism at the greatest excesses of the dissatisfaction of citizens with a particular matter, see restitution or, I would say, such a massive issue so that there is a control insurance mechanism so that the citizen can express himself. In addition, I have heard long-term complaints about the possibility of voting on everything. Well, it is once again an evil high-five, which I have heard, because we are clearly saying that the question for the referendum must not be directed towards changing the essentials of democratic law nor to abolishing or restricting constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights and freedoms. It must not be directed towards a decision which would be contrary to the obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic. It shall not be directed either to intervene in the exercise of judicial power. That means, we limit it to not being able to vote, which I often hear from the public, such as robbery, rape, possession of property. This must not be voted on, because it is, of course, contrary to the fundamental charter of rights and freedoms. I've explained the 100,000 signatures. After the fact that not only citizens, but citizens, are entitled to submit a proposal for a referendum to the President of the Republic, but we have been asked or have been made comments on how it was that a group of at least 50 Members or a group of 33 senators. We don't have to have it there. But she had a CSSD there. That's why we left it there on purpose. And it's obvious that the CSSD suddenly doesn't apply to their proposal and they still defamate ours, even though it's based on theirs. That means, here's how hateful politics gets around here. I was talking about the kvora. And we have even introduced it into the bill, even if it belongs to the implementing law, or it should be in the implementing law, not constitutionally, I recognise that, at a certain minimum time in the public media, but only to dull those voices of critics, that perhaps some media can populistly influence public opinion in some way and that perhaps the referendum could be affected. That's why we dropped it in there on purpose. That doesn't have to be there either. And if it was released for second reading, it would not be at all necessary to remove it from the matter and put it into the implementing law. That's the referendum proposal in a nutshell. I'd like to ask you again, even though I know it's pre-negotiated, that it will be rejected, about us without us, of course. Although the government has a referendum law in its government statement, it is visible how it will once again politicize, because I know in advance or I expect it to be rejected at first reading. But we really tried to take a proposal that would have been said by consensus between the cross-section of the political parties. We say in advance, we don't insist on it in the sense that if you release it to second reading, let's adjust the parameters to suit the government that has most of it here. Unfortunately, Dawn only has 14 votes, we're okay with it, folks. So I'm telling you publicly here in advance, if you're serious about the referendum, if you don't want to politicize, it's going to show up today, release it to second reading, and let's adjust it so that after 20 years we finally fill Article 2 of the Constitution, that the people can exercise power directly. I'm telling it straight here. We do not insist on this proposal. Release him to second reading. Let's adjust it so that the government will calmly, because it has a majority, adjust the parameters according to its own, or let's discuss it. But most importantly, whether we have it here as quickly as possible and we can all have a checkout, even the government, one of the important points of our program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u9	Thank you. I have two real notes. First, Mrs Adamová, who signed up electronically, then Mr Václav Votava. Then duly logged in to the debate. Please, madam, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u10	Hello, lovely afternoon or, more like, early evening. I would like to respond here to what has been said here by Mr Okamura. He quoted many times in his opening speech. I would quote him this time and put in connection with this proposal and the promotion of elements of direct democracy as well as the fact that the Dawn movement has only nine of its proper members and he is for the journal Law 15. 3. this year he stated that - I quote: "I put my work, my name into Dawn, and we promised voters elements of direct democracy. But in order for the party to dissipate and retreat from these principles, it really doesn't. We'd better be nine." So I would just like to say to you, through Mr President, first of all, try to introduce the direct elements in your party, not just for nine members. Try what it's like to have a lot more members and respect a pluralistic view. And then just here, come on in on these suggestions. It's just a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u11	Thank you. Mr Votava's point of fact now, then Mr NovotnýKádner comments are factual. And then I ask my colleague Okamura... Also a point of fact? [[Yes.]] Okay. Then the priority right of the KDU-ČSL club chairman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think what my colleague said in front of me is entirely in agreement with what democracy seems to exist in the Dawn movement. How they imagine a direct democracy. Mr Okamura mentioned here several times our proposal, a proposal for a social democracy for a constitutional law on a national referendum. Yes, Mr. Colleague, and we're applying for it. But not in the form in which you make your proposal. After all, we cannot accept some questions that are completely pointless and that are totally unacceptable. You were just talking about taxes. Well, of course, who wouldn't wish he didn't have any taxes or very small taxes? But that state has to provide certain services, and that's what it needs taxes for. So that's one case why we can't support your proposal, so widely filed, at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u13	I thank Mr Votav for his time. Now, with a point of fact... But before that, I'll actually read an apology. Mr Ivan Pilný apologizes for today's meeting at 18 o'clock for work reasons. So now, Mr Martin Novotný, Mr David Kádner, will be prepared, both with a factual remark. Then the factual comment by Tomio Okamura. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that remark is indeed factual. In his speech, colleague Okamura also referred to the views of the philosopher Friedrich Nietzche. I want to warn him that it would be good to read Nietzche's work first. It is undoubtedly full of criticism of parliamentary democracy. But the criticism is based on positions that in no way support direct democracy. That's completely absurd. If you knew anything about this philosopher, you'd know that his views he held had nothing to do with such a tendency. [[16.30 hours]] I would like to remind you of another philosopher, that is Immanuel Kant and his categorical imperative. It sounds like acting as if the maximum of your actions should be based on your will to become a general law of nature. Or: Act so that your actions can become a general rule for all. That is why I think that the comment made by my colleague at TOP 09, that is, that the Úsvit movement must first sweep its own threshold and any elements of internal democracy should be introduced first into its ranks, is absolutely appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u15	I thank Mr Novotný. Now, Mr David Kádner, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I only want to respond to my colleague, and I think there are others who have spoken of Dawn as undemocratic. I don't think this is about how many members there are. On the contrary, I think it is a great challenge for us to maintain supporters and people who support the party. And I think attacking whether Dawn has nine members or not - I myself am not a member of Dawn and I do not feel in an undemocratic environment. On the contrary, I have to say that I have proved myself in the Ústí Region, and I have had the opportunity to offer people who simply wouldn't get behind any brand. But now every step we take here, we have to convince them that we're doing it right, democratically. And by not having a party slap, a card, they somehow keep them until the next election. And I think that these people are growing, at least in the Ústí Region they are growing, and at this moment we have nearly 3,000 supporters since the election. So where's the democracy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u17	I thank Mr David Kádner for his time. Now, Mr Jiří Pospíšil, because he signed up electronically. [[Ambassador Okamura wanted to get off.]] Mr President, I must always draw your attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure Act is in force, and I must respect it as President. So I saw you with a factual remark, but my colleague Jiří Pospíšil signed up electronically. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I also have a point of fact. I want to respond to Mr Okamura's speech, which was expressed here on the Government's position. I guess no one can suspect that I am a supporter of this government, but I have studied this position thoroughly and is very serious in my arguments. So I can objectively say here that if the government is saying here clear facts as to why it is a legislative bastard, then we should rather, Mr Speaker, through Mr President, look at the arguments and say whether they are or are not justified and not call the arguments beautiful, smiling, etc. The bill, as it was submitted, is indeed a legislative bastard. And whoever votes in favour of his rejection does not mean that he is opposed to direct democracy. So please, let us not say here who is against this bill, so he is opposed to direct democracy. This proposal, if it had passed as it was prepared, would not have led to the establishment of a direct democracy, but to the collapse of the state itself, because then no democracy would have worked here. Neither representative nor direct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u19	Thank you. Mr Tomio Okamura is now making a point of fact. The chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jiří Mihola will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u20	Thank you. I'd stop remembering the previous speakers, so I'm glad I got my word on time. So, first of all, a colleague from TOP 09. Thank you for the heads-up, so I hope you will also explain to us how Mrs Parkanová of TOP 09 overpriced the Casa aircraft. That's democracy with you - excellent. Otherwise, I'd like to say to calm you down, that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u21	Please, Member, address other Members only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u22	Okay. Yes. Otherwise, I would like to reassure you that we are preparing to amend the statutes so that we can recruit to expand the structures. Believe me, it burns me, too. However, your coalition colleagues the starosta and independent, as Mr Gazdík called me, still almost two years after they were in the House, had only 15 members. So stop lying to me about this nonsense. ČSSD, thank you for pointing out that it is not for social programs. Whoever was involved in the robbery of our country until she's in debt up to her ears, I'm guessing it was the CSSD. Thank you. ODS, Mr Novotný, through the President. Well, you're right that if there was a direct democracy here, Klausův' amnesty, when he let the bad guys and the cheats out here, or privatization in the '90s, that would have been stopped by the citizens by now and called him off, maybe driven to criminal liability. Thank you for your comment. And Mr. Pospíšil up from ODS. You have spoken of pasquila - or no longer from ODS through the President - so the Civil Code under your leadership is one of the greatest pasquilas made by experts like you, through the President, and by your fellow workers. And speaking of ODS, through President Pospíšil, the Opencard case, we were just discussing here. And more robberies and tunneling public budgets. So I wouldn't even point that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u23	Thank you for keeping time. With proper application with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jiří Mihola. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u24	Mr President, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL in its programming declaration have signed up for the adoption of the Constitutional Act on a general referendum, presenting its own bill. The KDU-ČSL Club does not doubt the goodwill of the petitioners or the importance of this law. However, it is in the interests of the inhabitants of our country that this law should be as good as possible, because it is as important as it is exploitable. The petitioner here was referred to Switzerland. This Alpine country is, in many ways, inspiring to us, undoubtedly. I'm just wondering how some recent referendums would have turned out in our country. Finally, the words of the President of the Úsvit movement club confirm our position on the proposal, namely the referendum on church restitution. The referral is certainly a necessary matter. But it is not a panacea. I consider it wrong and unfortunate to associate him with the question of equalizing injustices in the past or moral issues. KDU-ČSL will not support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u25	I thank the President of the KDU-ČSL for the speech and now, with a proper application, Mr Martin Lank, and Mr Lukáš Pleticha will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u26	Mr President, honourable Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we do not present this proposal because only the Úsvit movement would perhaps desire a referendum. I stand here before you as a defender of this draft constitutional law because it wants a large part of this nation to be able to make decisions in the first place. After all, try asking your constituents. However, almost 350 000 people have already made their will clear by voting for the programme of our movement, where the referendum is a flagship. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really want a referendum, and many of you have declared it before the elections, you have a basic building block to build it. He may be a little rough for some of you, but he's clean, without unnecessary ballast. Anyway, it's workable. Therefore, I also ask you to release him for second reading, where we can repair him or modify him to suit everyone. However, if you take this proposal off the table as well as the 16 previous referendum proposals in the past, this is your choice, of course. Then be fair enough and admit that you do not really want a referendum. Admit to your constituents that you do not want to give them the opportunity to make their own decisions. I'll go back to one of the complaints that was about an unlimited concession. Let me give you a quick quote. "I must say that Parliament, in agreement with my ideas, has agreed that it is not good to base any favour on this law. We do not have it in any electoral law at all for any election, and I must say that all partners in the European Union have warned us directly about the establishment of a 50 per cent treaty, because there is no positive experience in Europe." Perhaps these words are familiar to you. Besides, she might. Because she's already heard from this counter once. On 26 February 2002, they were delivered by ČSSD Member Pavel Rychetský during the discussion of the Constitutional Act on the referendum on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. Indeed, even in the Constitutional Act on the referendum on accession to the European Union, there is no quorum. Lubomír Zaorálek, who is under this law signed as the then President of the House, could remember this. So does that mean that if we don't want to accept something, there will be a quorum? And if there's anything the government needs approval for, we're not gonna set a deal? Don't be mad at me, but such a purpose - and I can think of even more words - I can't accept them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u27	I thank Mr Martin Lanka. Before my colleague Pleticha, Mr Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u28	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of arguments here about why not to support precisely this draft constitutional law on a general referendum. These are mostly complaints of legal nature and, after all, Jiří Mihola, chairman of the KDU-ČSL club, commented on this in this sense. However, I would just like to add briefly what this proposal further disqualifies in the eyes of KDU-ČSL. It is a referendum in Crimea, which was attended by one of the petitioners, and which said that the referendum in Crimea was okay. The referendum in Crimea took place so that in some districts attendance was up to 120 percent, tickets without an envelope were thrown into a transparent urn, and the letters on the tickets were so large that it was beautifully over those glass urns to see who voted, and all this was happening under the curate of the militants. Question for a ticket or questions for a ticket "Do you want to join Russia now or do you want to join Russia after some time?" I'm not commenting. In other words, somehow this also, or respectively. approving such a referendum and claiming from one of the petitioners that it was democratic and smooth and fair, this referendum also disqualifies in our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u29	I thank Mr Benešík, Mr Václav Votava, with a factual remark from Tomio Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, it's not about whether or not we want a referendum. Social democracy wants a referendum. But, of course, not in the form in which you, colleagues, serve them. And if someone here calls this proposal - this proposal of yours - a scumbag, and it's from the left, from the right, basically the entire House outside of you, it's probably obvious what kind of proposal it is. I think you should think about that, and I think it is not just about this proposal, this draft constitutional bill on referendums. You bring in other bills, no matter what VAT, I don't know what everything is, and their level is basically the same. They're also legislative scumbags.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u31	So, in fact, I have my point, my colleague Pleticha, to be patient, because Tomio Okamura's factual remark, Radim Fiala's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so very briefly. Mr Benešík - I would, although I love you otherwise of course, just to remind you of the proverb: See once and hear a hundred times. You speak as if someone from KDU-ČSL was also there at the referendum. Or did you just hear it from our public media? On that mission were two MPs - one government from YES, from your government, so it would be time to publicly distance ourselves from the ANO member and from your coalition partner in that case - and say that you are questioning the testimony of the ANO crowds, then our MP was there and then there was an ex-member of the long-time CSSD Miloslav Soušek, today the mayor of High Myth, who even organized the whole event and invited others to this mission with the fact that he was already in this organization on other foreign observation missions. But let us not take the subject elsewhere, that is, our Members, virtually. Our MP just said what he saw. That's all. And since Milan Šarapatka has been selected by the Czech Republic for 12 years repeatedly as Ambassador of the Czech Republic in several foreign countries, we will hardly suspect him of giving incorrect testimony. That would probably be too much. He has two colleges, he's a long-standing diplomat, and he knows several languages. And to Mr Votav through the President - we would like to repeat ourselves here again - the proposal is yours, the ČSSD, and we have only modified the parameters on it. And I've already told you the rest here, I've already told you that here last week, you keep repeating yourself over and over again that VAT is paid only after payment of the invoice, or that we want to avoid moving in inadaptable and thus stop the housing allowance under the Real Needs Act. Well, of course the proposal is good, and it was enough for us to find a consensus together, and we could already have citizens suffering from it all over the Czech Republic because of the inadaptable ones. Well, that could have been settled by now. So once again, I appeal to you, let's put it on second reading, adjust it, and we'll have a referendum. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u33	Thank you. Mr Fiala, then Mr Benešík, with a factual remark, and with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u34	Thank you, thank you, I also wanted to respond to Mr. Benešík, but basically Tomio Okamura said it for me that Mr. Benešík spoke here as if he were there. Maybe you can tell us some more details about the ballots, just to make sure it's all there. But I don't want to respond to that anymore, and I would rather respond to Mr Votava, who says that all the proposals that we are making here are wrong. I understand that there are a lot of them, that you have to read them, that it is a lot of work, but they are proposals that simply solve the problems of the current society and that we said we would submit that we would seek political support for them. I'm going to turn to the referendum proposal. Mr President, this is your proposal, this is the proposal of the Social Democrats, with the fact that there is simply no quorum. Yes, there is no kvorum, there may still be one or two things missing, which we are able to read to plenary at second reading, to send to committees where we are able to discuss it, and to change the things you think are missing. Nor do I share my colleague Jiří Pospíšil's opinion that he is a pasquil. That's a very cheap and very simple argument. So let's just change it. The law is not a complex law, it does not have a hundred pages, it does not have fifty pages, it does not have twenty pages, it does not have ten pages, in my opinion it has two sides. Well, if you want it, let's change it, or let's just say you don't want it, 'cause that direct democracy and that people aren't right for you to decide anything. [[Applause for Members of the Dawn]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u35	I thank the President of the Dawn House. With the factual remark of Mr Benešík, then Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that Mr Okamura did not add that he liked me through Mr President. [[Laughs of a part of Members.]] Anyway, let's cut to the chase. Those gentlemen who were there, but do not present, outside of the representative of Dawn, any bill of referendum. That's the first thing. Second thing. Take a look at the footage of, for example, Czech Television from the polling rooms - just the urns are glass and those people don't have envelopes and, of course, even at that distance, you can see who votes. Czech TV - I often have great reservations about Czech TV, but I doubt that Czech TV was able to arrange it here, the images from the polling rooms, and after all, I think it's very possible that they were taken from Russia Today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u37	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, with priority rights, followed by the factual remarks made by Mr Adam, Mr Huml and Mr Holík. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u38	Thank you, good day again. You know, I have a bit of a problem with the fact that I don't know how we can agree on the form of law when we can't even agree on what a referendum is. I would like to say that the referendum is, and that is completely trivial and we should first agree that the referendum can be held as a free choice, a free decision-making or a public debate. Public debate in a free country is absolutely fundamental. Everything else is ridiculous. If you do not hold a referendum as a public debate in a free country, that is part of the debate, and before it is a referendum, the public must agree on how the question is asked, the question must be meaningful and given what will be done with the result of the referendum. If it's gonna be a referendum consultative, who it's gonna be binding on, etc. That means these rules are very important. Every referendum must be preceded by a real public debate in which opinions are somehow crystallized and clarified. [[16.50 hours]] What we saw, my friends, in Crimea, was blitzkrieg. You understand, that was a blitzkrieg! The referendum took place in record time. When you look at the way the questions sounded, it was just completely curious and comical, and the referendum was held under the rifles because the soldiers came in, so the basic principle was abolished... There were soldiers who had been lied about for a long time, that it was some kind of militia, until finally Mr Putin admitted in his speech in the Duma that they were Russian soldiers. That's where he said it. That's where he signed up to be Russian soldiers. So today we know that it has been Russian soldiers who have invaded a foreign country in tens of thousands, and under these spikes there has been a referendum in record speed within a few days with absolutely comical questions, you understand, without any public debate and with a promise that anyone who will vote in favour will increase pensions more than twice, and several similar statements which, of course, have aroused the enthusiasm of the population. This really is a mocker! That's ridiculous! It's a comedy, not a referendum! Do you understand? So we can talk about the referendum bill here, when you consider this farce here something that deserves to be driven there as an observer, and that he really looks like he's investigating whether it meets any demands. It's under the barrels of rifles, but we're willing to judge whether it's a regular referendum. And I repeat, it does not meet the basic principle that this is a public debate in a free country. It's the same as if you were making an election, there were a lot of troops everywhere, and you pretended it was a free election. It just can't be done. And if we can't agree on this, then I see a problem here. You see, the problem is, how can we then agree on a reasonable form of law, if we do not even agree that some elementary requirements must be met in order to hold a referendum somewhere? If they're not fulfilled, it's just ridiculous worldwide! Take a look at the position adopted by the Council of Europe, and if Russia is not in favour of the Security Council, look at the position of the Security Council, where only Russia has used the veto and prevented a resolution from being adopted, in which there was an article rejecting this referendum. At the level of the United Nations Security Council! Everyone agreed it was nonsense! Do you understand? Russia's use of veto law is absolutely extraordinary. Every state, even if it is a member of the Security Council, simply does not want to get into a situation where it is the only country to break the resolution. If you look at how many times this has happened, it's special. The state doesn't put it in a good light. The Rus didn't like doing this, but they had nothing else to do with it, because a resolution would be adopted that would be said publicly at the Security Council level by all the members with a number of sponsors that this referendum is ridiculous. So what else do you want to observe? What do you want to do about it? So it seems to me that if we want to discuss the bill on referendums, we must first clarify what the referendum is in this House, and unfortunately this is not happening, I see!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u39	I thank the Minister, and then we have a shrink of factual remarks. First of all, with a point of fact... If the appellant is to be given priority to the Member, he shall have the option. [[Mr Adam prefers Members of Okamura.]] Please, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's speech was so long that I would have forgotten what to react to. So I actually thank the Minister for supporting our referendum law. After all, you are actually on our side, because we are here to determine that a referendum can be announced from re-checking by the Constitutional Court at the earliest six months and at the latest twelve months after the petition and the re-checking, so that it is time for discussion. So thank you, Minister, for finally seeing one of the very positive points of our program under the ČSSD, so it is not, as your party colleagues and government colleagues say here, that it would be a pasquil. Thank you. That's good. And we are even saying that, at a time beginning 60 days and ending 48 hours before the vote, at least five hours of time will be spent in public media, both on television and on radio, even if I pointed out that it should be in the implementing law, and we put it there to blunt the debate that citizens might be influenced. And the Krym for a short time. Those observers that were there, as I've already named them, didn't judge any deadlines. They just said that in that place the way in the polling rooms, whether it was in their opinion in some harmony or not. So just to clarify, and possibly, if anyone wanted to make factual remarks on the subject, we'd figure it out at the very beginning. And thank you, Minister, for your support, because that's exactly what we have there. Well, that's unexpected support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u41	With a factual remark, Mr Petr Adam. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u42	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, through Mr President, would just like to say to Mr Votav: We are hearing over and over again that the ČSSD wants a referendum law. Not a general referendum, but a referendum. But I've been hearing it for maybe ten years, maybe I've been hearing it even longer. I have this feeling that we're presenting some kind of law here, and I'm paraphrasing the Czech film Sun, hay, erotic. We want to start a nude beach, but you want to start it so that women will only be naked from the neck up and men from the bag down. And that's not what we want! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u43	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Stanislav Huml. [[He's giving up his word.]] Yes, it is. With another factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Holík. And Mr. Karel Fiedler will be ready. Finally. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. I have one question. We need a referendum here, don't we? Silence is consent, it means yes. Now I'm going to break away from a number of previous speakers who have started to go back to a topic that has already been discussed. All of us here are some kind of elite nation. We were chosen by the people to represent them. Over there on the right, can we have a moment of peace? [[Towards ODS and TOP 09.]] And that's why we're running this state or helping to drive it, but no one's infallible. And we need some control here. When I return here, through Mr President, to Mr Votav, when you say, we have repeatedly advocated the proposal. Yes, you've been here 22 years! And why didn't you, tell me? Why were we able to steal or sell in this republic for three trillion crowns for the 22 and for the next almost two trillion we made a debt? Let's think! Let's consider everything! Do we need a referendum? We do. Let's give him a second reading!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u45	Thank you, honourable Member. With another point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler, Mr Benda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u46	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to Mr. Benešík and Minister Zaorálek's previous speakers. I also have reservations about how there was a referendum in Crimea that the urns were transparent there, that it was seen how these people voted. I'm sure we can agree on that. But we're not dealing with a referendum on Crimea here. We are here discussing a referendum for citizens of the Czech Republic! Through Mr President, Minister, it is already afternoon, we are no longer addressing Ukraine, we are already addressing the problems of the Czech Republic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u47	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u48	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to respond to the previous speaker minus one, who was so suggestive of a rhetorical question and then said that when no one answered him, everyone agreed to it. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that it is only possible to answer in this hall by signing up with Mr President, which means that no one could have answered him and does not mean that everyone agrees with him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u49	I thank Mr Benda for this practical lesson, and if no one else reports with a point of fact, he is finally getting to the duly registered Mr Lukáš Pleticha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I dare say that no one can describe me as opposed to a referendum, and through Mr President I also share this with Mr Tomio Okamur and let him, by your means, ask his members in his home Jablonec. I also fought for the referendum in the Constitutional Court with a constitutional complaint. [[17,00 hours]] I can tell you that the issue isn't easy at all. If we want to start dealing with this here, we need to start having fun at all before it gets here, what questions are supposed to be addressed in this referendum. What you're proposing here maybe there's a question for the referendum, if we want citizens to want a king and a kingdom to be at the head of the republic, and at the same time we'll have a president here. There's nothing we can do about it, because, in fact, if citizens want kings and kingdoms, it'll be superior to the ústava. What about now? So I would like to call on you to have a debate at first, what questions would be admissible in this national referendum, what should be involved. I am certainly not a fan of tax, because there are also mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses, and they have to pay for something, and the only thing that pays is taxes. So these are the reasons for which I propose to reject this proposal. But I'm saying, I'm definitely not the enemy of the referendum, I fought for them, ask for mine, I've got a pretty rich history in it. But not like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u51	I thank Mr Pletich. With a factual remark, Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these comments, but I would suggest that we read Article 5 of our proposal, when we clearly say that the President of the Republic will propose to the Constitutional Court within a month of the petition to the referendum to assess whether the question is in line with those conditions. That means it's hard for a king and a president to be together. So I'm just saying in advance that this is definitely not the content of our referendum. And it would be good to use the arguments that - I know this transmission will go to ČT 24 at 3:00 in the morning and maybe somebody will switch before I express myself, and it will slander us, but please, no, I'm very clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u53	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With another proper application, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Members of the Government, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which is in force in Article 15, states that the legislative power belongs to Parliament. The Constitution referred to in Article 2 (2) shall: 2 says that a constitutional law can determine when the people exercise power directly. It is these two articles of the Constitution that set limits on the way the national referendum law should move. In particular, it should not be contrary to the principle of representative democracy on which our constitutional system is built. Therefore, the national referendum law should have its limits, and I am not just talking about the rights of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. And if we analyse the proposed bill in this way, then it must be objectively said that it is moving outside the established limits of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The arguments that if such a democracy works in Switzerland, then it should work in our country are odd. I will remind you that Switzerland has since 1848 been a federation composed of cantons that can have their own constitution. A constitution which must not be in conflict with the Constitution of the Federation. Furthermore, the Federal Assembly, if you want a parliament, is composed of the Chamber of the People and the Chamber of States, which are elected in cantons. Therefore, the problem is that there is virtually no national political party in Switzerland. Although the Government, the Federal Council, is appointed by Parliament, it cannot be called off by Parliament. As he does not withdraw unless the referendum confirms her proposals. On the other hand, the government cannot dissolve parliament. This balance, mutual cooperation and federalization from the bottom up certainly cannot be applied to our country. Personally, I have always supported and supported the general referendum that should be completed, not the constitutional order of our country. Like the government, I believe that the law passed in a referendum cannot be superior to other laws, especially constitutional ones. At the same time, the proposed proposal is not linked to the current Constitution, and it would contribute to legal uncertainty, destabilise the political system in the country, and even threaten minority rights. I would also like to point out that a significant part of every democratically elected government's policy is, among other things, its fiscal policy, which should not be the subject of a referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u55	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With a factual remark, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, look, we have actually been discussing the dislike of everyone here for almost an hour or longer to actually adopt a referendum law. I beg you again and I call on you - let us put it into second reading, let us give it an extended deadline for discussion, let us give consensus in committees and adopt a referendum law. Let's adjust it to parameters, we know we're in it (?) Fourteen, let's stop making excuses. And, unfortunately, the second thing Mr President said here, through Mr President, is the fundamental contradiction between the Dawn movement and the difference between Dawn and almost all the other parties here in Parliament. We think that the voice of a citizen is the highest in the Czech Republic, but you don't think so, and that's really the difference. We think that when citizens express massively in the referendum that politicians should act accordingly, because this country belongs to citizens, not the economic-political mafia or political elites. Yes, you correctly named the difference between the view of the Úsvit and the ČSSD movement and other parties, but I believe that not everyone in your ranks thinks so, and I am sure of it, because I know personally many of you and I know that for many of you across the political spectrum the voice of a citizen is indeed the highest and you would like to vote it out and you have no problem with it. Therefore, let us stop politicating, show personal courage, and let us adopt the referendum law, release it to second reading and adjust it. All that stuff you're saying, the complaints, let's do it in second reading. We're in, we're not stopping it. Let us show ourselves that we really want this referendum. I think I made that very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-004-017.u57	I apologize very much to Mr Seďa, but now I have learned from the legislation that we had the item 49, firmly at 17 o'clock. Therefore, I am interrupting the point that we are currently discussing, this is the draft law on a national referendum, and we will begin with paragraph 49. Let me start with a point.
