ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u1	26. Proposal by Members of Marek Černoch, Tomio Okamura, Jaroslav Holík, Martin Lank, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Stanislav Berkovec, Václav Snopek and Kateřina Konečná to the Act amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order), as amended /German press 127/ - first reading prosit refer to Mr Marek Černoch for the plaintiff. The rapporteur will be prepared for first reading by Mr Jan Farský. Counselor of the plaintiffs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. The basic motto of any political party or movement that wants to enter the Chamber of Deputies is "let's roll with the executors." And it's usually a successful motto. It is clear, therefore, that if the reason with the bailiffs disappears, the flytrap falls on the voters, and therefore there is no further reason to adopt a fundamental solution to the executors' activities. But we categorically disagree with that. In the end, the coalition contract was merely mentioned that executors must not be competing entrepreneurs seeking to obtain as many executions as possible, except for the usual floscules for the reduction of remuneration and usury. It was added that, according to the order of execution, claims which can be recovered under other regulations will not be recovered. The execution concerned 1 100 289 natural persons and 147 018 legal persons at the time of the last elections to the Chamber of Deputies. The number of persons with more than ten executions was 47 122. For the sake of clarity, the winning ČSSD received a total of 1 016 829 votes in the 2013 elections to the Chamber of Deputies, which is 15 540 more than those on which execution is conducted, unless we count their family members and the statutory bodies of legal entities, which are also subject to execution. The bailiff is extended by the State. It exercises state power and ensures the preservation of fundamental principles of the rule of law by its activities, and therefore must not be seen by the public as part of some kind of enforcer mafia, it must not be linked to the buying-in of claims. The bailiff must work and decide impartially and independently. That is what the law provides for him, and that is what the parties expect. Because if the public is looking at bailiffs in this way, then it also similarly looks at us Members, because the solution to their difficult situation is just us. A partial solution, such as the reduction of remuneration, the slimming of management, let's face it, isn't going anywhere. This has been demonstrated by several previous amendments. The situation is getting worse and so there is a need to adopt a systemic solution and thus to approach Europe when the territorial principle is introduced everywhere with the exception of the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and Albania. I remind you that in some countries the territoriality of judicial executors has a long tradition. We present a law where we propose the territoriality of judicial executors with equal distribution. The solution is groundbreaking, it's a system change. Territoriality is the territorial principle of the judicial executors' activities, where the bailiffs as the official persons to whom the State has transferred part of its jurisdiction in the exercise of judicial and other decisions are equally entrusted by executions in the region where their office is located. This reduces overuse and abuse of executions, leading to a total loss of liability justified, to the total frivolity of a number of entities in providing services to debt, and in general, what is free is always overused. The territoriality will allow effective and real supervision of the executor's activities by the execution judge, the elimination of excesses in execution activities and better predictability of the law through the unifying case law of the Regional Court. The essential objective of the proposed regulation is to abolish the trade struggle for claims, i.e. to increase business in the state administration. The execution system is set up to generate demand for executions. The more executions, the better. This is unacceptable from our point of view - and I hope from your point of view - too. However, if this system is satisfactory, then nothing changes. Let us answer the question of whether the state should be interested in as many executions as possible and, of course, more prisoners in prisons. It shouldn't be like that. The establishment of territoriality would bring order to the authorities, because the annual estimated number of executions at the local authorities would fall from 50,000 to about 4,000 executions a year, and the executor will be able to do that personally. Then the pillaging and raids would be over. Interest in the profession of executor under pressure from the media, opposition from the public and cheap speech of politicians gradually declines, quality of executors inevitably too. Authorities are closing, and who wants to be an executor today? Already now, one candidate is applying to one executive office when there were hundreds of them in 2010, and so the new executives control the former employees of the large authorities, and if nothing changes, one day they will be only ten. The excesses we read about in the press must end, and at the same time we must maintain the enforcement of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, our intention is to end up with big business in the framework of execution. If we really want to solve the problems of executives, we need to solve this systemically, and that solution is now on the table. Let us at least discuss it in committees to signal to the public that we want to deal with the problem seriously and systematically. There will then also be a government proposal, with which our MP can connect and work on further steps to improve the situation. We know that there is a creditor to each debtor, and debts have to be paid. Our goal is merely to stop the big business of human misfortune, a misfortune that can, let's say, really honestly, befall any one of us by mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you very much and I am asking for your support so that we can get this bill into committees and into second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u3	I thank the representatives of the petitioners and ask the rapporteur to present his report for first reading. Mr. Jan Farský. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the press itself has presented the appellant, and I will present how he has been prepared so far in our Chamber of Deputies. It was submitted on 21 February 2014, and the Government has prepared an opinion on which I will introduce you. The Government disagreed with this press 127 for the reasons set out below. First, it refers to the comprehensive legislation it is preparing this year, in two terms. The first was by the end of April 2014, when the government actually submitted a legislative amendment to the order of execution, and a further amendment, even with a potential proposal on territoriality, was planned by the end of December 2014. The second reason is that the government has identified certain shortcomings which, on the contrary, could complicate enforcement proceedings and could limit legal certainty and impair the position of not only entitled persons but also obliged persons. The government was also not in line with the fact that the proposal gives the Executive Chamber the opportunity to create forms, and in that case, when it is running out of proposal for execution itself, even if the bill does not explicitly address it, the Government states that, of course, the moment of the proceedings are at the heart of the proceedings, and if it is not precisely established, to whom and how the proposal is to come, in what form, it creates legal uncertainty which can actually cause significant harm to the rightful. The Government also disagrees with the proposed annulment of § 38 para. 2 enforcement orders which require the original or certified copy of the enforcement order to be attached, including confirmation of its enforceability, with a proposal for the execution of the execution itself. It also does not agree that the executive chamber is given authority to the self-governing authority, given authority in the system of distribution of the executions themselves, that is the uniformity that was referred to by the petitioner. It presents it as inappropriate with reference to the Constitutional Court's findings. Furthermore, the Government notes that the bill does not contain the relevant transitional provisions relating to the proceedings already initiated, and we have heard from the speaker that this is indeed a large number to be dealt with. And, as the Government often does to us in the case of parliamentary proposals, of course, notes that there are shortcomings of a legislative technical nature which could certainly be corrected. So that's the information of the government that stood up to it. To conclude, for all the reasons I have said, it is disagreeable. The Organizing Committee recommended this draft law already on 26 March for inclusion at the meeting and proposed ordering the Constitutional Legal Committee to discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have Mr Tomio Okamura's application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on our proposal. The main essence of the so-called Territoriality for executives is in practice the introduction of electronic file allocation, so-called ideas, on the regional principle. Individual executions will be enforced by executioners according to the territory of the regional court and individual cases should be allocated evenly to them without the option to choose, with creditors remaining able to apply for another executor if there are legal reasons. Executor territoriality is a standard system, functional throughout Europe. The exception is the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but the Slovak Chamber of Execútorov also promotes regional territoriality in the long term. According to her official statement, the adoption of these measures significantly from the transparent execution process and will be an important asset - sorry, prinosom - especially for the most vulnerable sections of the population. I quote: The Executive Chamber of the Czech Republic also took a very serious stand on the proposal of territoriality, with 86 percent of the executors for territoriality according to the internal survey, and there was also a platform for territoriality among them that advocated the acceptance of territoriality in judicial executors. The aim of the amendment is that the executioner cannot buy claims, is not forced to give commissions and is not forced to maximize profits. Of course, if the executor has 150 employees, and you know what they are. I talk, they have to feed them somehow, and if you want to get a large number of claims, you have to give a commission, and if you give a commission, you have to get it out of something. This is an endless cycle that leads to an increase in claims by up to tens of thousands of times. Therefore, even for the three hundred that are owed, it must go to the auction of the compulsory house, because directing such an executor's debt factory is gigantic and some thousand costs cannot, of course, be fixed. What is also essential is the possibility of reviewing and controlling the work of executors. The overwhelming part of citizens does not know their rights, knows their laws, and is unable to defend themselves from some executors. And here's the big problem. In particular executors, we find that the problem is not in the law, but that the executor violates the law and relies on the disabled not only to know how, but can hardly call the law and suffer in the overwhelming majority of the injustices. People don't have money for debts, let alone expensive lawyers. So a poor man in debt is the surest victim for anyone who doesn't respect the law. The only solution is the active approach of the Ministry of Justice, which could and should carry out random checks. Of course, if any executor chamber has tens of thousands of cases a year, then it is not possible for the Ministry to review, even at random, any major percentage of the case. And, as we know from practice, the vast majority of excesses are related to the largest executives in large businesses. If the execution is evenly divided, then not only will the motivation of the debt or execution be reduced to buy, but the execution will also be evenly broken down and the work of each executive office will be easier to control. In addition, let's pour pure wine, and we know from practice that creditors choose among themselves today. some executors just for their picky methods. And it's not always just about the money. We have a documented case where the mayor of the town, it was a small town in Pardubice County, did not give the debt of 270 kroner for the dumpster to the executor in the county city, because he would have dealt with the matter with a wage deduction, but handed it over to the executor's wounder because the mayor and the residents did not like each other. And he immediately increased the debt by tens of thousands, did not enter into instalments and immediately ordered the sale of the debtor's property worth nearly a million crowns. The debt that the debtor could work with the municipality ended with the sale of the house and the total begging of the debtor and the reason was that the debtor concerned had an argument with the mayor. This way, however, the executors produce homeless, social outcasts who are in debt for the rest of their lives. In order to make a living, they work black and officially receive only welfare benefits. The state is losing money, and citizens who would benefit from the budget become a liability. We should always and everywhere stick to the "debts to be paid, but the debtor must not be destroyed" password. I am also glad that there are several members of the KSČM and a member of the ANO movement who have found the courage to sign up and defy the dictation of their political parties and are trying to implement their electoral programme. I've heard a complaint about something -- it's repeated in government reports on our laws again -- about some poor quality, some kind of bad processing. So I would like to quote here from the website of the Chamber of Deputies, so that those in charge of legislation in the government are about to rush to the microphone. [[10.30 hours]] So on what law, on what basis did this government come into being? Wasn't that based on the first reading of the Service Act? Which, by the way, haven't we seen here to this day to be presented? And let me quote. Who actually put forward this proposal on the basis of which this government was founded? [[Very emotional:]] Aha! Roman Sklenák - Foreign Minister Zaorálek is signed here! And Prime Minister Sobotka too! And Mr. Hamáček, head of the House! Home Secretary Chovanec is here! Well, I have to say, even though we have a friendly relationship, Mr. Jeroným Tejc is there. And what does the government write here about the bill that passed, based on first reading, was this government appointed? Aha! So the Legislative Council of the Government and Rusnokův's government say that this proposal of yours is in conflict with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. That's classy! Next - reservation on unconstitutionality. Hm. Furthermore - together with the proposal was not submitted a draft law on any amendment etc. Furthermore, contrary to the new Civil Code, it does not contain appropriate adjustments, violates the principle of presumption of innocence. So this is the work of the legislators of this government, even on the basis of which this government was created? This is the comedy we see here, when this government cannot prepare, even with the signatures of ministers, Prime Minister and Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies, it cannot prepare a decent proposal, and despite all criticism, weighing, here from some members of the government, I must say that the Úsvit motion has never been said that it is unconstitutional, it has never been said that it violates the principle of presumption of innocence or that it is against the Civil Code! Even when we're talking about what kind of government was created here on the basis of a legislative pasquila, I think it's unfortunately this government, even though I'm rooting for it, that I'm rooting for anyone who would try to change in the future, but I have to say no to that. So when someone rushes over to the microphone and criticizes our proposal, I'd like you to finally bring in that service bill, just like you promised a few months ago, and it wasn't an unconstitutional pasquil! The second thing is that I would like to stop by - because I heard in the galleys that this proposal about executors will be rejected. It's come to my attention that everyone will vote against. Aha! Well, I thought I'd take a look at the government's voice, just in case. So the Minister of Justice Helena Válková, who, as we see, is obviously not interested in the problem of a million people affected by the bailiffs, does not care about the government, so I can't even ask her directly about my complaints that I have here, and specific questions, so I'm probably going to have to ask someone else, which is a huge contempt for millions of people who are affected by executions, so that's an expression of absolute contempt. I don't know what we should be dealing with here other than one of the three key points that the government and the Justice Department are going to name in a government statement that they're going to be dealing with, so one of those three points when I'm looking at the government's programming statement is on the table, and the secretary isn't here. So where is he? So where's the secretary when we're dealing with the bailiffs? I can't stare, it's absolutely scandalous! And the Minister of Justice, Mrs Helena Válková, at a seminar on territoriality held last month under the auspices of the Constitutional Legal Committee in the Chamber of Deputies, said that the Government will not support the proposal to introduce regional territoriality and added, and I still quote, that the Ministry of Justice thinks that the principle of territoriality is very useful and that the question of its application should be addressed and that the Minister argues to territoriality and concludes that this issue must be addressed at the highest political level, between the coalition parties - well, I am glad that after three months there is a conclusion in the government, but that is more likely to inspire a small smile from my point of view, or a rather large and rather bitter one with regard to those affected people - but that the Minister wants the agreement of coalition partners. So, three months in the government, we have a government program statement, and the secretary just wants the consent of the coalition partners after three months, whether or not we're going to deal with territoriality? Well, I'm very surprised. At present, it is said that those who want to introduce the principle of territoriality prevail. Well, we know that, so that's a really interesting positive finding, virtually. a statement of a condition that we already know about. But if the political decision is neutral, we will tend to arguments that we will hear more often. Well, now I don't know how to interpret these words, because on the one hand, we hear a declaration that the principle of territoriality is useful and it should be dealt with, on the other hand, where the wind is, there's a cloak, so I have no idea what that expression is. So I'd like to ask the secretary to explain it to us, but the secretary isn't, so there's no one to explain it to us. And in the context, when the Minister here talks about having to consult with the coalition, which I thought, since it's in the government's programming statement that they've already consulted the coalition, I'm just pointing out that ČSSD also proposed territoriality, e.g. in the Senate, Minister Dienstbier, where he was rejected. But I'm not saying that pejoratively, no way. But the fact that the CSSD is pushing it here at the Minister's level, we already know that. So I'd like to ask the secretary, but I'm stressing again, I don't have anyone, if the secretary doesn't have an opinion of his own or can't enforce him? I didn't actually get the statement from what's here in writing, even at that seminar on regional territoriality. Or maybe the government doesn't even have an opinion on how to solve the problem of executors and territoriality, that it has to be consulted even though it is in the programming statement? I promised you that a hundred days really the Dawn movement is giving this government some kind of work, but, folks, it's no fun now! Now we have to work for the citizens. Respectfully, you have to work for the citizens. For more than three months, they have been gone, and we have not seen any major changes to the Czech Republic. Not one! This means that I would ask you to really speed up and stop politicizing and support good proposals for second reading so that they can be negotiated and that we can help people. So I really don't understand the Minister's comments, and I'm asking the government for an explanation. While the Minister is leaning towards territoriality, he has no proposal of his own, which follows, and he will reject the proposal that is on the table and, in the meantime, millions of people, including families, are suffering from an inappropriately set-up system. So I'm asking the government again - what's he waiting for? What's he waiting for?! It's like moving in with those inadaptable, socially excluded citizens. It was on the table here in February - and on Monday, three ministers for social democracy are going to Šluknovsko to hear the same thing from the mayors, because with the same mayors of Šluknovska, we prepared the bill that you swept away in February! So, three ministers, how much did it cost, the visit? Or did you first see, as government and ministers, how the Rom people moved into one of the hostels? We in Bystřice pod Hostýn have it in the square between the church and the town hall, we have 200, and I don't need to watch with some motorcade and some beacons. And three ministers! And when will this be presented? You promised to submit the proposal within two months, in February you said so here on the microphone. And it's May, and you've lied and you've cheated us because the law on ceilinging the housing allowance is not here to this day! And the government's programming statement. Well, I'll take the liberty of reading from the government's programming statement. You have it on the Internet, the honourable government and the respected coalition parties: we want to promote an unbiased fight against the abuse of executions - I quote. So this is the nonnegotiable fight? So, as a nonnegotiable struggle, it is that we here, after three or four months, are actually before the proposal, which at least partially addresses the problem of executors, we will not release it to second reading - and how long will we wait? How? How long? You're gonna tell us the moon? Or, like, you know, you're gonna tell us in two months, and they're gone three, and we still don't have it here. But these people are suffering, folks. Those people are really the victims of this, as I say, state-sanctioned loan shark. We should work together, not politicize. In this sense, I call mainly on members of the YES movement, because we went to work and not to politicize, folks. You will be commanded by your leadership: vote against, against, against, and you will already politicize, but let us vote for good proposals and move it forward. You forgot in the last three or four months why we came here. And during the Dawn movement, I say, you know we vote for every proposal, no matter who proposes it, we just judge it by the program, and whether it's good or bad. That's how úsvit acts. We don't politicize, we want the country to shift. And now you're watching, you've learned, you're looking at who designed it! And you don't rate good - bad. Come in. I have to say, the Justice Department, a chapter from the government's programming statement. It says here: The government will strengthen the supervision of executives' activities in order to prevent the abuse of execution and recovery of debts - I am still quoting - and will ensure that the executor, as a representative of the State, exercises his right in a manner guaranteeing both the rights of the creditor and the debtor. Well, now I don't know. The government's programming statement is a piece of paper? Or did you just write it like that? Or to appease the public? [[10.40 hours]] So I've asked a whole series of questions here about the government's representative, and I hope that I will be clearly answered without any insequently attacking the Dawn movement's proposals. But I'd like to focus on when the problem will finally be solved, and on the questions I've said here. And, of course, I beg all of you to support me, because I know that many Members, or some outside the Dawn movement, will vote in favour of this amendment. And please make more and more of us. And at second reading, let's take it slow. We're in no hurry. The fact that we've offered to sign it to others... I say, there is also signed a member of the ANO Standa Berkovec movement and there are also two members of the KSČM. We offered it. It's not a Dawn proposal. Let's do this as a joint proposal. And let's not politicize! Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u7	Thank you to Chairman Tomie Okamur. I'll try to calm down the atmosphere in the room by reading the apology first. Mr. Rom Kostřica apologizes for today's work, and Mr. Karel Tureček and Mr. Ivan Gabal apologizes from the meeting at 10 o'clock. Mr. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Did the rapporteur Farský report in? No, okay. Then I will make factual remarks - Mr Chvojka's colleague and then Mr Tejc and Mr Petr Adam will be Member. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u8	Mr Vice-President, honourable government torso, colleagues, I have one brief remark and then three procedural proposals. [[two ministers present]] A brief remark on how angry President Okamura was. We have to get used to it. Because the government almost always says it brings its own better system complex design. We talked about it yesterday, that was the Communist proposal, it's on your proposal today. For our bills to come at the next meeting, I read the opinion of the Legislative Council and then the entire government that it is not bad, but it is not systemic, it is not complex and it needs to be looked at differently and wide and properly. Then we just have to get used to it. That's just the way it's gonna be. And now for the three procedural proposals. Firstly, I propose to interrupt this point until the arrival of Secretary Válková. And then I have two procedural proposals for the agenda. In the first place, I would like to propose that the House agree that there have been exceptional circumstances and can change the agenda 30 minutes after the beginning of the day. I propose that, if the House approves this, that we firmly include points 85 and 86 of the approved agenda for 12 hours, namely paragraph 85, the Report on the control of the annual financial reports of political parties and political movements for 2013, and paragraph 86, the completion of the annual reports of political parties and political movements for 2009 to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will vote on the procedural proposal without debate. First of all, I have a question to ask you, if all Members of the Chamber of Deputies consider that there has been a serious situation, he has made the timetable a bit difficult, that we would also vote on a change to the agenda outside of those specific hours. We're going to decide the serious situation in the 181 vote that I started... Sorry, you wanted to unsubscribe. I declare the vote 181 misguided. I checked you all out and please sign up with your voting cards. We will decide on the proposal for a situation where the Chamber of Deputies considers it necessary outside the time limit to vote on the amendment of the programme. Who is in favour of a situation like this in order to decide on a change of programme? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 182, 114 for 114 present. We can therefore vote on Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal to place points 85 firmly at 12 o'clock and then paragraph 86, the Report on the control of the political parties' annual financial reports. I've started voting 183 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 183, out of 115, 113 in favour. The motion was accepted. So we're going to have points 85 and 86 fixed at 12 o'clock. We will now proceed to individual applications. Mr Chvojka's real comment and then duly signed in by Mr Tejc... [[Objection from the diaper that there should still be a vote of interruption.]] Yes, I'm sorry. The third proposal made by Mr. President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, i.e. interruption of this point until the arrival of Minister Válková. I've started the vote on serial number 184 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 184, from 117 in favour of 36, against 40. The motion, though, was not accepted. We will therefore continue the negotiations, and this will be done by the Members who have applied for. Mr Chvojka, then Mr Tejc, Adam and Jaroslav Holík, who among others. then he apologizes from 12 o'clock. With the de facto remark of Mr Laudát following Mr Chvojka, they will wait to sign in before Minister Dienstbier gives the priority right. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to follow up on Mr. Okamura's speech, who's got the place going. The atmosphere was kind of boring, but I think his speech picked up the House a little bit. First of all, I'd like to congratulate him on yesterday's court decision when it was decided not to be called Pitomie. I think the court made the right decision and that we all witnessed that it really wasn't. And the second thing I would like to ask through Mr Okamura's President. I support changes in the order of execution as well as in the Civil Procedure Code, and I have already signed several of them, and I am glad that many of them are now in the second reading of the Constitutional Legal Committee. However, I have read in the media, in the favourite medium of Mr Okamura Reflex, that Vice-President of your movement, respectively. Perhaps the former Vice-President, Mr Večerníček, is alone in some 10 to 12 execution proceedings, which, of course, is a sad thing I would not wish anyone to do, but my question is: Isn't the fight with the bailiffs, which is right, on your part only aimed at solving the personal problems of your Vice-President? Because, of course, laws should be regulated for some general reason, they should be valid for all and probably generally binding. But now it seems that he owns a Vice-President of your party, who is in several execution proceedings, wants to solve his problems. So I'd like you to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u11	Thank you. With a point of fact, I have Mr Laudát's application. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the previous vote. Don't be mad at me. You are saying something to the public - I am speaking to the members of the YES movement now - and you are doing the exact opposite. We can think of President Okamura's proposal what we want, but I think it is his right to demand, if he makes a proposal, that Minister Válková sits here. You're not being fair. Don't be mad at me. We also covered the total delusion of the Minister of Transport here, and we could also perform the same scene here, when he did an absolutely incredible thing, when he defends the bill here, and in the House lies completely different or relatively diametrically different. So don't be mad at me, you're not being fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u13	Another registered priority right is Minister Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u14	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to respond after all to Mr Okamura's speech. He asked for an explanation. I will try to explain it, although I don't believe much in the success of my efforts. There have been a number of things that have nothing to do with the proposed bill. For example, the fact that the government is supposedly failing to keep its promise to submit an amendment to the Law on material distress. I would like to remind you that the promise, just as it was made here, was that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would submit a bill of this kind to the government by the end of April. I would like to stress that this has happened. The Ministry of Labour has submitted this bill to the government and this proposal is therefore in progress and it is a bill that should avoid immoral housing benefits. First thing. Second thing. To what extent the government is fulfilling its promises regarding the regulation of recovery and enforcement. Mr Okamura here quoted a number of sentences from the government statement, and I would like to say that none specifically concerns the principle of territoriality, which is the main subject of the bill. What is related to territoriality can, although not explicitly, be found in the coalition agreement, where the coalition committed itself to restricting the immoral business with executions. It stated that executives should not be competing entrepreneurs and should not compete for which of them will rip off the largest possible portion of executions. And in this sense, I must say that I agree with all the backgrounds that Mr Okamura has given, by which he justified the bill. I think that the government has the same objective, but unfortunately I must insist that the proposal that has been tabled is indeed a legislative pasculi, that it would not lead to a solution to this problem, that, on the contrary, it would cause a number of other problems. The fact that it is not clear when enforcement proceedings are actually initiated is quite essential. The whole procedure, when all the influence or key decisions of the Executor Chamber, which would actually decide the rights of individual persons, should be given is completely unhappy. I would like to emphasise one thing which opens up the scope for a huge abuse of executions, namely that the proposal of Mr Okamura and others abolishes the mandatory requirement of the proposal, and that is the submission of an execution title. In other words, only on the basis of the statement that I allegedly have some right, if I simplify it a little bit, would the execution be initiated, albeit under other rules. This could affect a number of people against whom execution would be quite unjust. In such a way, the government does not really want to address the regulation of executions to make people's position worse. I must insist that what is written in the coalition agreement and in the government statement is not actually dealt with in any other way than applying the principle of territoriality, because if the bailiffs are not to compete, if the assignment of execution is to be objective, like everyone is to have their legal judge, and here I insist on the parallel, because the execution of execution is the exercise of state power entrusted to judicial bailiffs under the law, but should be subject to similar rules as the allocation of the case in judicial decisions, otherwise the matter is not actually solved. Of course, there can be a debate on whether regional territoriality or district territoriality should be introduced. In any case, if the regional one, which is wider, has to follow something as a schedule, so that only one of the parties to the proceedings does not choose his executor, but that there are objective rules on the basis of which the executor will be determined, and that the executions between the executioners are evenly scheduled and that there are no so-called executor factories with which the largest part of the problems are involved. The reasons that have been given here for territoriality, I fully agree with them, but the legislative proposal, the legislative solution, does not contribute at all to solving this problem. As I have pointed out in the example of the execution title, it may, on the contrary, lead to a deterioration in the position of those against whom the execution is conducted and an increase in the number of those against whom it is quite unjustly directed. And that's definitely not how we should go. And the last thing I'm gonna try to explain. The MP here showed great impatience in terms of government progress. Among other things, we also have in the coalition agreement that we want a good legislative process. We may not always be able to keep this 100%, but we should be on our way to this goal. And the preparation of the bill for a period of less than three months, if it is not some very simple technical regulation, is basically impossible. Since the current government has been in office for over three months, it is logical that the first government proposals are yet to come to the table. We have a legislative plan. This is what we want to follow, we will proceed accordingly, and the proposals here to the House will follow this timetable and the substantive definition that is stated there. You will understand that, from the principle of good legislative debate on such a fundamental change as the introduction of territoriality, we cannot give way, and surely the government will come up with its own solution to the problem, as is apparent from the programming statement and the government's legislative plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u15	Thank you, Minister. Another party to the debate is Mr Tejc. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also, although I do not want to repeat the arguments that have been raised here, say a few words about why, in my opinion, this bill is not fit to be dealt with in committees. It is not that we disagree on a fundamental principle, but with all the good relations that we have with Mr Okamura, I have to argue with him that what he said leads to a clear conclusion that these problems with the number of executions, with how much each execution is worth at ancillary costs, will solve the principle of territoriality. Unfortunately, the proposal put forward here does not address these serious problems at all. The press 107, which is in this House and which has been signed by a number of members of the opposition and the coalition, is trying to resolve the issue of secondary costs, and I am convinced that right now, just before the conclusion of the agreement, which will lead to the fact that even before the law is passed, Minister Válková will change the decree and significantly reduce the remuneration of lawyers for disputes up to CZK 10,000, and this will solve the question that has been raised here and which has followed up the situation when a debt of CZK 100 or CZK 200 is now due in line CZK 10 or CZK 15,000. That is why this matter needs to be resolved, and the matter will be resolved by amending the law of the Code of Civil Procedure, or by amending the Order. It will certainly not be resolved by the introduction of territoriality as proposed here. With regard to the reasons why we have a number of executions, yes, a number of executions really are very strange. On the other hand, a number of people were trapped in debt, for example, by not taking over the mail and responding in time to, for example, a lawsuit that was clearly justified. The fact that there are a million executions is true, of course, but also that it does not apply to a million citizens, but it concerns those people where some of them have, unfortunately, three, five executions, and the biggest problem that we have to solve and which does not solve territoriality, but solves the change of law, is the question of a clear link between insolvency proceedings, namely personal bankruptcy and execution, because many people are no longer able to pay off debts, but unfortunately, getting to the debt that has meaning today is virtually impossible. [[11.00 hours]] The bill that is here, unfortunately, will not prevent the debt trade from being here, the big business, because the big business of human misfortune will take place regardless of whether or not there will be territoriality. Simply because the only change that will happen is that the debt will not be recovered by one bailout for more debtors, but each debtor will have a different executor. Nothing will change at all, because the reward under the law in this matter is the same, it cannot be higher, so in this sense, what colleagues have been talking about will not be resolved again. What I'm sorry about the bill is that it doesn't basically give any bonus to debtors, but it brings bonus and other business to some executors. The point is, the pie will not be reduced by execution. He's gonna stay the same, but otherwise, the executives will share the pie with each other. The bigger ones lose them and the smaller ones get a bigger share. Nothing will change for the debtor, at least nothing significant, and the situation will get complicated for the creditors. That is the only reason why I really cannot support a law that, instead of addressing debtors' problems, solves the problems of some executors who have also recently lobbied for this proposal. I don't think it's possible to solve the problem by setting up regional territoriality. If territoriality, then the principle must be one debtor - one executor. It makes no sense that there are 10 or 15 executors in one county who will walk differently to different debtors and meet again with one debtor two or three executors in case of multiple executions. This means the only point is if we introduce the territoriality of district or district, but unfortunately it does not like those who support this proposal from the executors, because they would like to connect Central Bohemia and Prague, for example, and within this territory they operate in lower competition. What is absolutely the worst part of this bill is, in my opinion, that the person who will redistribute the execution will not stand, it will not be the courts, but it will be the Executor Chamber. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have very negative experience with the Executive Chamber, with how it dealt with the issue of disciplinary proceedings of individual executors, and the problem we have today is still not resolved, despite the fact that we have succeeded in adopting a novel in the past period, which has strengthened the disciplinary responsibility, and today the Chamber does not decide precisely because there was no elementary confidence in the independence of this Chamber, but it is decided by the disciplinary Senate of the Supreme Administrative Court. Yet here it is proposed that the Executor Chamber have new powers. And I must say, from a legislative point of view, the law is poor in that some - and I must say that it is really spicy - some obligations are imposed not by the text of the law, but by the explanatory note. I think that there is such a serious offence that the law could not be corrected in any simple way. If the law today were to show only legislative technical errors or some minor inaccuracies that could be eliminated in committee, then I would be in favour of advancing it. If the law still has to be written again on other foundations, principles, it is better, in my opinion, that this proposal is prepared by the government and the Ministry of Justice, will be discussed, and if it does not, then I can also promise Tomio Okamur and others that we will work together on a proposal that would address this situation. But unfortunately, territoriality will solve perhaps one percent or two percent of the problems we have with executions. And it's just a myth that's trying to feed a bunch of executors here who'd like to cut a bigger share of the pie. What really is the problem is the business. But the business, as I say, will not be solved by being territorial, simply because, for example, the costs previously charged from one end of the Republic, if the executor has arrived at the other end, are already limited. This means that no more costs can be charged by the executioner today, which is why it reduces and basically prevents the bailiffs from acquiring large funds as they did before, by deliberately taking cases from the other end of our country. I'm sorry, but I have to redefine the motion to return to work on this matter. It is not a motion for rejection, but a proposal for a return to the drafting of this bill, with the fact that we would certainly also address this issue on the ground of the constitutional law committee. And if there is any interest, I would like to organise a round table on this subject among the representatives of all the parliamentary parties, the Minister of Justice, Jiří Dienstbier, as Minister of Legislation, and agree on how to address this situation and how to adopt it, for example, in the case of government legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u17	Thank you. I also have Mr Fiala's priority right here. I'm going to ask you colleagues again to lower the noise level in the hall. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, for our bills, for the Dawn proposals, we hear the same sentences all the time. And this: It is misspelled, there are legislative technical errors, it cannot be completely changed, but we, the government, will come up with more comprehensive proposals. With more comprehensive proposals for these laws. Although the problems that we are pretending to be are true, everyone agrees with them, they say they have to be dealt with, but that the government will come up with a more comprehensive bill. So, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Dienstbier - he's not here right now, he's probably gone to work to make it to the end of his term. [[Member of the Faltynek from the post: He is not a vice prime minister, but a minister.]] I wanted to say that politicians did not create this problem. The fact that this problem has become a politician and a politician in the Czech Republic means the problem of executors, which results from people's problems. Those people, the company is really starting to have problems with this business, and that's why we want to deal with it. The executors' activities crossed the red line that limits the exercise of law, and the executors' activities became a complement to the loan shark's business, when people are targeted to be robbed, defrauded, and then, for many years, they lose basically all funds and property. These people are thrown into the social network and excluded from active economic activity. Yes, it's not just a social problem anymore, when these people have nothing and they go under the bridge, but these people basically don't pay any taxes anymore, they don't make any money, they're out of economic activity, they're out of proportion to GDP, and so on. And if we have heard today that more than a million people are involved in execution, that is a substantial part of the Czech economy, and we need to start doing something about it. It is time to end this practice and set rules that will fundamentally otherwise regulate the work of executors. Of course, people have to pay their debts. However, this must not become a business of human misfortune. We don't want to deny everyone's right to pay his claim. In the Czech Republic, however, practice took place in a position where a creditor provides a loan regardless of the debtor's ability to repay and the purpose of such a loan is not a return on reasonable interest, but with the use of execution mechanisms there will be a complete begging of the debtor. The new rules must therefore go hand in hand with the definition of usury, which is what the next legislative initiative of the Dawn movement is trying to do. Ladies and gentlemen, after a brief consultation, the Úsvit movement club responds to Mr Jeroným Tejc's offer when it says: Let's return this bill to recast, let's make a round table, let's sit around this bill because we know that we would kill this thing that really burns our society today, and we don't want to do it. Let us vote in favour of the recast proposal. Let's make a round table, let's try to change things and put it back and try to help those people who are begging today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u19	Thank you. I've got Mr Stanjura's priority right here, so come along, Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u20	I would like to follow up on the performance of my colleague František Laudát, who appealed to government MPs. And we'll keep reminding you when you vote double standards on the same cases. So, next week, four months will pass from the first reading when we discussed a great proposal for a new service law. You said it wasn't special, it wasn't because of the appointment of one minister, that it wasn't because the President put it as a condition - and behold, 120 days passed, it wasn't in the committees yet, because the coalition meets, the coalition meets, I understand that it is, and I think it is a complicated issue, but in that case you were not so strict, you didn't return it to a recast, even though the proposal was, you didn't vote for rejection, even though it was a proposal, and you turned the legislative process around completely. It is such a rarity that first we pass the law at first reading, then we approve the substantive intention of the law in coalition negotiations. I don't know if you're past it or not. Then a paragrafo version of the law is prepared, and then it will be read as a comprehensive amendment in the second reading in one of the committees. And then we'll probably get three, maybe four, maybe five days to study it, vote and decide. So if we want to be strict with the MPs' bills, please, but let's be strict with everyone. And here you have an obvious case of when the authors themselves know that their original text will go somewhere to the junkyard of legislative proposals, the authors themselves are reworking it. Nobody's criticizing it from the government, everyone's happy, and they're still showing up on TV, as well as on May 2nd, poor people, meet and work, maybe even on Saturday, May 3rd, if I remember the TV footage well. Anyway, it's May 15 today, another week has passed, and we still don't have a proposal. This is not discussed in the committees, because the Coalition Council, in other words, as one of the previous speakers said, the top political officials of this coalition have not yet agreed on what the draft service law will look like. But it would be okay if, after you agree, there was a standard legislative process of all ministries, the government approved it and submitted a proposal for a new service law to the Chamber of Deputies. No offense. You're doing exactly the opposite, and that's okay with you! Of course, it bothers you with opposition proposals! The request on our part is that you treat everyone equally: either equally strictly or with the same benevolence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u21	Thank you. Now I have two factual points. The first is Mr. Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u22	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just make a brief speech on this matter. Of course, I will not talk about the problem in depth, because I am not a lawyer, but in order not to do so from the wall to the wall, I agree with Mr Tejc's proposal to return to work, but it is necessary to assess the matter that it is absolutely necessary to protect the people who have entered the debt trap, because the atrocities that are happening today are without doubt beyond decency and beyond any normal procedure. On the other hand, the proposal needs not to be, as I have already said, from wall to wall, to be judged by people who abuse the system when they apply for permanent residence at the city office. There are a number of my fellow mayors here, and they all know very well that they have a number of people registered at the office, who apply there primarily for that reason - maybe a married couple has a naughty son who gets in trouble, so we put the son in the city office so they don't take our property. And I'm making it perfectly clear, because I just ran around a couple of colleagues right now, and I asked them how many of these people have logged in at the city office. Nymburk over 600 people, I have almost 700 there. [[from the diaper: 2 500]] Two thousand five hundred etc. etc. Sorry, I don't want to downplay it. I just want to say that there is a group of people who are using the system, and I would very much like to ask that if a working group is created and this standard returns to work or to work, I would also ask that these persons, who are also very burning and burning to the authorities, the mayors of the present and the future, and first of all, those who normally go to work and fulfill their responsibilities. I just want to say... [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u23	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u24	I'd like to take a few notes on the service bill. I would also rather engage in other activities on Saturdays and Sundays than discuss the Service Act. Unfortunately, reality is relentless and we have done nothing since 2002, when the law was passed, to make it effective. There haven't been eight years of social democracy here, so we can't be held responsible for this. After all, we did not vote to postpone the effectiveness of this law in the last vote, when its effectiveness was postponed to 1. 1. 2015. And I would like to point out that I do not like to scare and I do not like to listen to the haunting of the European Union and the European Commission, that if the law is not adopted and we wait for a solution that would certainly be better, more comfortable for me personally and for others, that a government bill will be prepared and presented to the Chamber of Deputies in October, maybe in October or November, we will have information from the European Commission that we will stop drawing on the European money of CZK 100 billion, and I really would not be able to take responsibility for that personally. That means we're doing the best we can. Yes, the law arises, I recognise, not in a very standard way, I recognise that it is not being discussed as it should, and also within the time limits that I would have imagined, but unfortunately reality is such. But we certainly do not want to behave the way the previous coalition behaved in giving dozens of pages of proposals to the committee in the morning and voting on them in the afternoon. I would like this meeting to take at least a few weeks in the committees and that, before the text is known and voted on by the Chamber of Deputies, that is at least a month's time. I hope it will be fulfilled, but I understand we're pressed for time. Unfortunately, even an extraordinary House meeting will have to be convened, but I believe that this is something we are able to handle. So in this sense, I acknowledge the objections that have been raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, including for keeping your time exactly. Another point of fact is made by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u26	Unfortunately, this afternoon's apology shows that there's really going to be a government torso. Perhaps one or two ministers are not excused. It's one of the things I wanted to interpel, but the ministers won't be here. And I've also been hearing about the risk from the European Commission in recent weeks and months, and I've already asked here repeatedly in the discussions to tell us from the European Commission what they're threatening us on. I think it is the political opinion of the current members of the European Commission, who are ending here next week because the term of office of the European Parliament is ending. We do not know what the composition of the European Commission will be, and it is not a matter that is supported by European legislation. And I'd ask someone not to scare each other so that we don't overestimate the risks, but at the same time, so that we don't downplay them, that someone gives us black and white information, on what basis, and who's threatening us. We believe that we are not in breach of any European legislation, and there is no reason other than political pressure or political negotiation, whether I am more correct, that this is what they want us to do. But we repeat repeatedly that we're doing this for ourselves. And that's why we want the service bill. And it wasn't exactly correct information from a colleague. Tejce - after all, we have submitted a government bill in the last parliamentary term. That it was not enough to discuss it and that many legislative proposals fell under the table by the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies is true. But the proposal exists. Anyone who wants to read it can read it. He has some number of the House press in the last parliamentary term, he's been through a proper commentary process, but unfortunately, we didn't have time to discuss it. So it's not entirely true that no one's dealt with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u27	Thank you. I will ask colleagues in the left side of the House to lower the volume of their talks so that we can hear each other. Thank you. Another registered point of fact is that of Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u28	Thank you for the floor. Even from other speakers who stood by this counter, we have heard how intense it is, how people report to the municipal and municipal authorities, how they log in to defend the families of executioners. It's a really big social problem. We have made this compromise solution as the Dawn movement, that we have said: well, we will vote in favour of returning the law to recast, and we will try to meet the comments that have been made here today, to amend the bill so that it is acceptable for most of the Chamber of Deputies. However, let's make a deal, let's make a round table, let's sit down and say what's bothering us across the political spectrum about the bill and what we want to change. I, Mr President, suggest that we vote on the emergence of an expert group across the political spectrum for this law so that experts can gather together and we can discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u29	Thank you. Mrs Hnyková is another signed on with a point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u30	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to share this with you. Every time I go back to my place of work, our Mrs. Wage and Personalist says to me, "Jan, please, do something about the executors." What's affecting these people isn't just about them, it's about organizations. Today, the organization has to hire lawyers to handle it. So I would very much like to appeal to the government to hurry in this and address this issue urgently. I just want to say that the Dawn movement doesn't mean it badly. I don't like you calling our designs pasquila here. I mean, we're trying to make good things happen. You've had it in election programs, and you're doing it for the people, so I think that the proposal made by our club chairman to form this expert group across the political spectrum is a very good incentive, and I hope we get your support as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u31	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond through you to my previous colleague, Fiala. I agree with the formation of an expert group. I am not of the opinion that this should be put to the vote. I think it's nonsense, there's a lot of different groups in the House, I have a feeling they've never been voted on, they've just been made ad hoc. I'd love to be a member, but on condition that Mr. Tomio Okamura is not the chairman, otherwise I'm applying to the expert group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u33	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u34	I'd like to say that we're dealing with executions and executors. After all, there is another parliamentary proposal concerning the Mobilitarian Enforcements, where both Members of Social Democracy and Dawn are present. He will be discussed at the next meeting. I believe that this proposal can be extended by a number of things without becoming an adhesive. It should not be territoriality, it would probably really be an adhesive, but I believe that we are dealing with this issue, and in this way we are also helping a government that is not able, indeed, in the length of the legislative process, which is standard and which we want here to maintain, to prepare a proposal in the order of weeks. Indeed, it takes approximately five to seven months for the proposal to go through a circle on individual ministries, and that is why Minister Válková is now working on other proposals in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u35	Thank you. I would now like to ask Mr Laudát with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u36	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of efficiency, please come to the vote on this proposal by my colleague Teak and really, now it's in the loop over and over. Let's put it to a vote, send it back, if the petitioner agrees, and there we have to deal with the other elements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u37	Thank you. Anyway, before we proceed to the vote, I have a duly signed-in, including other entries to the debate, so until they withdraw their applications, the debate must take place. The next one is Mr. Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u38	Hello. I would like to say basically the same thing as my colleague Laudát, with the fact that I would like to promise for our club that we will also participate actively in the work group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u39	Thank you. Another of the priority rights applied for is Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u40	I wanted to say more or less the same thing and thank you for your willingness and helpfulness, because there was an x for and against. I have to say that I am sorry that Minister Dienstbier here is talking again about pasquila, and yet I really think that the look behind it does not give complete confidence in how the government should behave either. But it's not an innuendo. I don't want to deal with this at all. I'm just gonna be very happy because I've been having this problem more or less since I joined the Chamber of Deputies. And I'd just like to say to Mr. Chvojka that it had nothing to do with Mr. Novák, this. So from me right now, it's probably everything as a translator, and I'd be very happy to have that expert group working, and I think we're gonna support whatever your proposal is that has a head and a heel, and it's not supposed to be a political struggle, but it's really supposed to be about the hyperdrive that's going on out there. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u41	Thank you. Since I don't have anyone else in the debate anymore, before we vote, I'll ask Mr. Speaker... I still have a point of fact here. So, Mr. Ambassador, let's go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u42	I would like to, because we also communicate with colleagues from Dawn and with other parties, so I would like to assure that we will also participate in this work as KDU-ČSL, I assume that my colleague Klaška, who deals with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u43	Thank you. I want to ask the appellant and rapporteur if they want to have final words. No. Thank you. At this point, I am not registering any application for discussion and ending the general debate. We will take the vote. Before we vote, I'll check you all out, I'll ask you to log back into the system. There have been two proposals, so we will vote. The first proposal is that we are returning the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote 185. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? He got held up. I'm closing the vote number 185. Members present are 129, 126 for this proposal. The motion was accepted. As a further proposal, there was a proposal to set up an expert group to deal with executions. The motion lasts. I put it to the vote who is in favour of setting up this expert group. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of raising his hand and pressing the button. Who's against it? He got held up. It's vote number 186. Members present 130, there were 40 Members for them. This proposal was rejected. I am done discussing this point, and Mr Kalousek is reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me for holding you back for a moment with a statement that I do not consider marginal. Some of you approached me yesterday with the fact that my statement that, in voting for NATO troops' possible location on our territory, they were voted as crypt-communists touched them deeply personally. I scrutinized my conscience in the evening, and as part of the scrutinizing of conscience, I visited the facebook pages of the ANO 2011 movement to perhaps draw some reasons to correct that view. A fan of yours, ladies and gentlemen, wrote a theme on the script of the new Czech film - You have to kill Kalousek. And the ANO movement officially writes through its website administrator: This is, of course, an amazing film. Encouraged by the official opinion of the other highest parliamentary party, supporters write one after another: Hang him upside down on the hook. The '50s must have been a beautiful time. Some practices from communism should not be forgotten, because they would be useful for some members of the TOP 09 and ODS. Please, please, in the movie It's time to kill Kalousek I want to compose a music where the main violin would play a heavy machine gun. And so on and so forth. I realize that every one of us gets Facebooked sometimes by some crazy guy. However, it is quite innovative, and I do not think it has yet happened for the political party to officially agree with these views and encourage them. Because that's what happened. And I'm not saying this here because I would like to file a criminal complaint or that I would like to ask Minister Chovanec for protection. I'm saying this to tell you that I'm not afraid of you. That you won't intimidate me with dirty rumors to the media, or by public encouragement to my physical destruction. And that term of a crypt-communist, I would like to define - the communist early 1950s, because that time was characterized by encouraging political subjects to hang and shoot political opponents. You could do that. That's all you've ever done. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u45	He is now reporting with the priority right of Minister Jourová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I already reported yesterday that I wanted to comment on the NATO point here that perhaps we are still not completely affected by cynicism and indifference when we spend quite a lot of unpleasant time here by having unpleasant performances. I wanted to say that I still feel some human movements, and I wanted to tell you that I was very offended by that crypt-communist. So I am saying this, and thank you, I accept the apology of President Kalousek. At the same time, I would like to say, as the first Vice-President of the YES movement, that if this is happening on Facebook and we have not stopped such a discussion that it should have happened and that I will make my way to remedy it, and I am sorry too. Personally, I consider social networks to be an area where negative emotions come out, that people who may be failing in normal personal contact and who do not have the opportunity to show themselves that way. I think it's really up to administrators not to allow such things, as far as possible, beyond decency and correctness. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u47	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u48	Forgive me, Madam Secretary and First Vice-President, you misunderstood me. First of all, I think it was obvious from my performance that I didn't formulate an apology. Secondly, this is not about living this discussion on your Facebook page and you didn't stop it. I wouldn't talk about that at all. You approved it. You are with this view - please look at the facebook - it says "you need to kill Kalousek" and ANO responds. YES is the official administrator of your site, which mediates the answer of the political movement YES. ano responds: That would be an amazing movie. I'm not talking about it because someone's threatening to shoot me and hang me upside down to enjoy it. The reason I'm talking about this is because you, on your website, agree to this opinion. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-007-026.u49	Thank you. Before we move forward in the negotiations, I have an apology here. Apology from the House meeting on 15. 5. As of 12.15, Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes for reasons of work. I have been asked to re-sign out Members in the Chamber, so I will re-sign you all out and ask you to re-subscribe. I thank the rapporteur and the petitioner. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Black, is there a point in my mind? No, so I'm erasing you. I don't see anyone with priority rights coming forward at this point. In that case, we will continue the program as proposed. We're going to discuss a point called
