ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u1	17. Members of Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, Vojtěch Filip, Stanislav Grospič, Miloslava Vostrá and Pavel Kováčik's proposal to issue a law repealing Act No. 451/1991 Coll., laying down certain other prerequisites for the performance of certain functions in the state bodies and organizations of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, as amended, and Act No. 279/1992 Coll., on some other prerequisites for the performance of certain functions occupied by the provisions or appointment of members of the Police of the Czech Republic and members of the Czech Correctional Education Corps, as amended / House print 21/ - first reading Before we continue to discuss this, I just want to remind you that the general debate on this point was interrupted on Wednesday 5. 2. and again, after further discussion, the general debate was interrupted again on Friday 7. 2. Therefore, we are continuing the general debate. Please and I call on the legislator and the rapporteur to take up their seats at the rapporteur's table, and I ask the first party to the debate, Mr Antonín Seďa, to take up his word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u2	Thank you. Dear Members, honourable Members of the Government, the Government does not agree with the abolition of the Illustration Laws, which were adopted in view of developments in the period 1948 to 1989 and the purpose of which was primarily to prevent the occupation of selected positions in the state administration, local government and armed forces by members of the power elites and armed forces of the former Communist regime and persons registered as co-workers of the State Security. [[16.10 hours]] According to the petitioners, one reason should be that the original law No. 279/1992 Coll. was to expire at the end of 1996, but at the same time by Law No. 256/1995 Coll. it has been extended until 31. 12. 2000 and in the same year Law No. 424/2000 Sb. to abolish restrictions on the effectiveness of the law without further restrictions. Dear colleagues, the laws which are now being proposed to be repealed are part of a broader and logically linked whole, which, according to the Government, should not be intervened without a proper balance sheet on the reasons for such a move, without careful analysis of its possible consequences. An example can be given by Law No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, pursuant to which Section 3 para. 2 is a condition for authorising a designated officer to carry out certain tasks in the management of the municipal police to submit a negative illustration certificate, or also Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence, where the list of persons included is a security risk. However, in my opinion, there are other reasons for maintaining the law. You may recall how it was spoken after November 1989, and from time to time information on the special fund of the operational archive of the State Security is still emerging. There was talk of the fondness of former Interior Minister Sachr manipulating the files of StB by creating a fund in which he concentrated politically explosive writings. KGB archives are still unveiled, which in many cases have been tasked with the Czechoslovak State Security. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a member of the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Operation of Military Intelligence at the time of the discovery of paper bags hiding documents of military counterintelligence. This was, please, in 2004, four years after the abolition of the limitation on the validity of the Illustration Act - if this were to happen. I ask: Are we really sure that there are still no similar bags of documents of former State Security? Irreversible facts based on interviews with contemporary commemorators show that already in 1990 compromising documents of military counterintelligence were moved from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Defence. These materials were stored in two hundred bags in the archives of the Ministry of Defence with the idea that they were originally to be prepared for shredding. He even later tried to slip one of the ministers to confirm this shredder with his signature, which, of course, did not work. That is why I ask all of us: Are we really sure that more, so far hidden materials of State Security cannot appear in the near future and maybe not just her? I admit I'm not sure after my 2004 experience. In conclusion, my esteemed colleagues, I must stress that it was the Czech Social Democratic Party that demanded and still required a negative illustration certificate for its candidates, beyond the electoral law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another party to the debate is Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u4	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during last week's discussion of this proposal, Mr Stanjura quoted here, so allow me to quote some passages in a document. I quote: All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Everyone has all rights and freedoms without any distinction, in particular by race, sex, language, religion, political or social origin, property or other status. All have the right to equal protection against any discrimination and to incite such discrimination. Everyone has the right to enter their country's public services on equal terms. Every person has the right to social security and the right to have the economic, social and cultural rights necessary for his dignity and for the free development of his personality. Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to fair and satisfactory working conditions and to protect unemployment. [[versus]] Everyone, without any distinction, is entitled to the same salary for the same work. Every working person has the right to a fair and satisfactory reward that would provide a living for himself and his family corresponding to human dignity. Everyone has the right to a standard of living that would be able to ensure his or her health and well-being, including his or her families, in particular nutrition, clothing, apartment and medical care, as well as the necessary social measures; he or she has the right to security in unemployment, sickness, incapacity for work, widowing and old age. The document from which I quoted the previous sentences is entitled the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I doubt anyone would dare publicly reject the individual points of this international document. The second thing, however, is to fulfill it. And it is the content of individual paragraphs and articles that are being violated daily in our country. It has already been violated by the adoption of the rendering law and continues to be violated by its validity. It is a law which discriminates significantly against the articles of the Declaration in which equality of people is highlighted, the right to protection against any discrimination, the right to work in the public services of the country on equal terms or the right to freedom of choice of employment. It also runs counter to the basic constitutional principle of civil equality, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and a number of other international treaties. Not by chance the Czech Republic was criticized by the Council of Europe and the International Labour Organisation. That's one side of it. The second is related to the content of this criticism. Our country has been in debt for more than 20 years, the former developed industry has been devastated, self-sufficient agriculture has replaced foreign products, unemployment has reached record levels, villages have settled because there is no problem at all, not to mention education, the quality of which has gone down sharply, or reduced culture and morality. The only thing that's likely to flourish here will be the church with billions, land and property donated. The Czech Republic is in such a bad state that the expertise of those who could deal with the current situation should come first for every normal person. After all, this has been repeatedly highlighted in the election campaign of the candidates of most political parties. Many openly criticized the law of illustration and claimed its abolition. But the election campaign is over - voters, forget it. According to the opponents, the abolition of the rendering law must not be a matter of expertise, but of ideological blindness. Thus, when discussing our proposal to abolish this law, we hear a demagogic comparison of the alleged communist dictatorship with the current amazing democracy and false claims about the necessity to protect this democracy and the human rights acquired. But the democracy, freedom and human rights are only there for someone. The facts clearly prove it. The right to work, to a fair wage or pension, to a right to housing, to a dignified life is impossible for a large number of citizens and their families. [[16.20 hours]] They can travel freely, but most families can't do it. They can say what they want, but it's good for them, they don't get a call anywhere. They can study what they want, even pay for their studies, but after graduating, many of them extend a number of unemployed people to employment offices. Not to mention old people who have nothing to come out of, and to tear them out has 40 crowns, which they received on average added. Homelessness, poverty, debt, and subsequent execution, a growing number of suicides for economic reasons, when people have nothing left to live on. Do you think that's how people imagine that declared democracy? Mr Fiala here has been avidly condemning the pre-November regime. But whoever has a memory knows that, according to his words, communist dictatorship - by the way, I am surprised by his ignorance of concepts - in that time he succeeded so much that everything was done and people did not live in fear of losing a job or a roof over their heads. If you think that not only this fact, but above all, where you've led this country over the past 24 years, you're going to cover up the constant defense of a discriminatory rendering law, then you're living completely out of reality. Indeed, the electoral results of the political parties of the former right-wing coalition fully correspond to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u5	Thank you, Madame. I have Mr Svoboda on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I live in complete amazement, probably living in a different country than the Member. It may be explained by her being too young to remember. My grandfather, when the communists retired early from this Chamber of Deputies, received 380 crowns of retirement. I couldn't do anything for that. No one's been evicted? They took away our house, where we lived, where we had our office, and we were evicted. All these sentences, declarations about what human rights are - how can anyone say that they were completely violated in all the files! I'll just give you one example that's not well known, about how the elite class got separated. Last time dialysis started, it was a very expensive treatment - and it was a rule that someone over 50 years of age was not entitled to dialysis. He must have died. This rule did not apply to prominent members of the Communist Party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I beg you, Mr Blažek, for what it's worth. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u8	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to react, but I have to. You know, this isn't about what Fiala, Blažek says, and I don't know who said about the previous regime. It's enough to read your former comrades what they say about the regime in their memoirs. So, for example, I would recommend to Mrs. Mlynář mráz from the Kremlin, from Hochman, who wrote Dubček's memoirs, you will also read there, as it was then, the Rise and Falls of Gustáv Husák from historian Plevza or, after all, the recently published memory of Lubomír Štrougal. And I don't need to express myself as a person who's never been in the KSČ to this regime, because these comrades, although ex-boyfriends, but some today and living, described the regime exactly as it worked. And those debates of that sense are actually smiling if it weren't so serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, please, Mrs Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u10	Thank you. By your means, Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Svoboda, who here claimed to be so young. Thank you. However, despite my age, I remember. Most of the people in this country remember, which is proved by the surveys that say what I said here. Back then, people had jobs, they had housing, they had health care - and it's not true that only the prominent could afford it. Now they can afford it by those who have to pay for the drugs, who pay for the study, if they can, if they're not just fired from work. Both Mr Svoboda and Mr Blažek think that if people listen to them, they will form their own opinion. Otherwise, as far as reading is concerned, I would also recommend a number of very objective historical books which, unfortunately, are disappearing both from the counters and from the schools so that both young people and children and future adults do not learn the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u11	Thank you. I will ask Mr Blažek to wait, he is second in line. Please, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u12	At the first moment, I was startled that the MP wanted to thank me for the practice and the house that she got the KSČ when they confiscated it. I'm really just reminding you. There was an organization and a medical facility called SANOPZ. Through the President, I ask if the Member knows what the device was and who was allowed to do so. I ask her on my behalf why I wasn't accepted to the medical school, stating that I was the son of a doctor and that it was a family profession. There was no discrimination? I believe you don't remember, but we have to remember!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u13	Thank you. With Mr Blažek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u14	Thank you. Your way, I don't know where to start from, but the claim that some books are disappearing and so on is completely wrong. I, madam, if you and the class enemy, with me, went through the antiquarians, or if you want a bookstore, you'll see how many classics you're talking about, and how many different books are absolutely available and can normally be obtained and bought. For example, this regime does not prevent anyone from reading Josif Stalin's collected files. It's available. Really. And if that's the case, I'll invite you to my house. It's all there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, I beg you, Mr Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not burden the House with explaining the political concepts, but to colleagues from the Communist Party through Madam President, I would say that the Communist regime was, of course, a dictatorship. And not only a dictatorship of authoritarian, but a dictatorship that fulfilled all the signs of totalitarian dictatorship. If you are interested, I can prove it to you on specific examples and facts, and you will in no way weaken this fact by questioning my political competence. I think that's the only thing you really can't do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please refer to Mr Laudát's microphone, which is entered into a proper debate. Please prepare Mr Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rather wish to respond here to the debate that has already been held here in the previous discussion. Vice-President Filip said what the law is for today. I think a little vision for the future is the name of evil. Of course, the basic law on the name of the crimes of communism and the rendering law - I think we should look at it, not open this Pandořin's box and say, and I'm sorry that the KSČM doesn't claim or silence the name of evil. I mean, it wasn't normal if, in the middle of Europe, some cadres, some housekeepers --
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u19	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I ask my colleagues on the left to remain calm so we can hear each other. Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u20	I understand comrades don't care. The name of the fact that it's not normal that if someone comes in and throws people out of property for an hour, who have worked hard for themselves honestly for generations, that it's not normal, whether you're being ruled out by a domestic confidant and writing down files, whether you can or can't go to study, whether it's normal that someone shot people on the border, shot them or crippled them or then arrived somewhere in the camps just because they wanted to see their relatives, their family members, or simply from a socialist paradise, where everyone was stalking everyone, and those informers are crowds and their helpers even bigger crowds, so just whether this is normal. And we could go on like this. [[16.30 hours]] A colleague of the Zaorálek here has said that there may be much more evil in society today, more problems that we are dealing with than in the past. Even a 70-year-old gentleman wrote me on this subject. I think there's quite a fundamental difference, if this evil is systemic, i.e. The system directly builds the state, or if it's a random evil, which, of course, can be fought. There was crime in democracy, there were laps, there were laps, there was crime, and that's probably the case. People and society are just who they are. And the question is whether we can effectively regulate it - less effectively, somehow reflect the development. But what was here before 1989 is systemic evil. After all, there was a party's leading role. So how come somebody, one side, some superhumans here claimed to rule and control everything? Why just one? Why have many people, the vast majority of society, not allowed access to making decisions about their affairs, whether or not the voters decide what they decide? I can have millions of reservations about that, and you know I have them. That means I see Mr. Zaorálek's completely mistaken consideration in this. And I could recite here for example. one of the stories that happened when one person tried to get out of here beyond the border. And when he did it after the crazy peripetia, the crime scenes, and the shooting at the border, he ended up being murdered by some burglar somewhere in San Francisco in the park. When he finally got to freedom. This means there is a significant difference between individual crime and organized violence. My colleague Kalousek here said, and I think another, that the reason for the adoption of laws after 1989, the rendering and others, was simply to protect society from the worst component of society before 1989. I think that development and life show that we have failed catastrophically. And if anyone's referring today to Václav Havel and other people who ran the company and set the course after 1989, I think if they were wrong about something, that's exactly what they were doing. I think that for what was going on here between 1948 and 1989, there should have been significantly more severe penalties. At least in the form that these people should have finally and forever disappeared from public life. Not that there will be just a narrow group of functions and posts where a demonstration certificate will be required. And I don't think it was just about the aesthetics. A colleague of Farský here said that we had already come to this when the Civil Service Act was discussed, because President Zeman has set a completely absurd condition. It was about the first reading of the Public Service Act. I mean, it couldn't have been such a pointless condition. If he had any other idea of what the ruling coalition was supposed to look like, he was helpless, of course, with knowledge of what he said about participation, for example. Communists in government or supporting some coalition or social democracy... He basically put a moral mark on this coalition more than you think. And, of course, it may be a little unlikely to be interpreted, but it's not a completely zero interpretation. And if, perhaps, because our company, I admit, forgets... Maybe five or ten years ago, in any attempt to abolish the laws of illustration or break whether or not an aesthetic can be in or out of this position, people would be demonstrating here. They don't care today. So maybe it also creates the atmosphere that the situation is overcome. Well, maybe we're rolling into a society where we're going to have to repeat some elements of pre-November development because we haven't learned our lesson. And if anyone forgets what time it was, I'll tell you a story from my own family. When my grandfather was sent to Jáchymov, my mother went to ask permission to visit him after months. And she witnessed an aesthetic in a Jihlava prison or a restraint station beat up a young mother with a child who was taken from her father just because she asked what his destiny was and whether he was still alive. Well, if you don't mind, I'm sorry. I regret that this is not an important subject for part of the Social Democrats, as their chairman Sobotka said. I'm sorry if the YES movement wants to be a new force in this country that part of the people will leave. And I'm sorry that it just proves what I didn't want to believe. On this KSČM shows and the speech by Mrs Semelová has made it clear that they do not regret what was here before 1989, that they did not distance themselves from their past. Perhaps an even cleaner and more transparent speech could not have been said here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another party to the general debate is Mr Grebeníček. Mr. Mr. Štětina will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the solution to the relationship with the past has always been and is part of revolutionary changes. Crushing old monuments and building new ones, renaming street names and rewriting textbooks is evidence of this. This is primarily a rejection of the immediate past with reference to its alleged or actual immorality. And a new or appropriate view of the past becomes, above all, what gives authorisation and justification to a certain political project. However, by rejecting the immediate past, it is often merely replaced by inadequately formulated programs for the power of devolved saviors. I quite understand that the past was also a necessary topic for the first post-November election competitions. However, if the main theme of the various campaigns remains almost a quarter-century after the fall of the pre-November regime, it is evidence of something. Especially about the inability to raise the questions that society really lives on. Yes, under the pretext of cursing the past, really certain political circles are struggling with the present. It often suffices with a combination of half-truths, lies and hateful outbursts, sometimes coming to the position of historically infamous struggle with the alleged Jewish Bolshevik danger. All the more I understand the remarkable statement of one of the signatories to Charter 77 by Miroslav Jodl from 1993: Animal anticommunism is capable of sending a lightning telegram to Hitler in a frightening irony: Adolf, come back, all forgiven. Nearly 25 years since November 1989, since the year of reversal, it gives sufficient distance to measure the expectations of the time, the declared goals of economic, political and social results with real results. Yes, it began as an ethos revolution, but very soon that historic turn turned into a revolution of interests and a balance with the past. For example, Presidential candidate Táňa Fischerová considers winning that the government of one party has ended. For losing, it's that nothing better was born. [[16.40 hours]] At the same time, i.e. on 16 November last year, the Interior Minister Jan Ruml said that political transformation was probably easier than economic transformation. He even admitted the deficit of a deeper reflection of the future of our republic. He thought that we would come out of the communist era with a certain unrepeatable experience, more humble, more spiritual and more tolerant. However, life, as Jan Ruml said, soon slipped to consumerism, envy, and mutual hostility. Plastically, American journalist and writer Tina Rosenbergová described these facts in the book The Enchanted Landscape in the Face of Postcommunism Scarecrow, which was subsequently awarded as the best American book of literature in 1995. Rosenbergová understood the senselessness and unconstitution of the witch hunt staged by Prague's post-November power center. As an impartial observer, she realized that it was a personal account handling, a ruthless struggle for power and monetization of everything that the new tenants of Prague Castle had come to. The history of nearly 25 years of capitalism's restaurant in our Republic is indeed rich, especially for various political campaigns, awkward political skirmishes, property movements, corruption scandals and purposeful illustrations. The economic difficulties and the corrupt climate have logically provoked or provoked a sense of injustice among many citizens, and for many of them the newly built democracy has become synonymous with intrigue, diletantism, corruption, and personal benefits. Of course, when something goes wrong, two approaches are possible - either looking for a serious way out or looking for a scapegoat. Unfortunately, the second approach has prevailed in our circumstances for many years. In the post-1989 period, it was initially believed that there was a significant positive turnaround that actually occurred in some areas. But with that came a number of negative things and people are once again disappointed. I would even say that the present time is literally based on uncertainty or even fear of the future, mainly because of those who are characterized by the ethics of powerful predators with little understanding for the values of decent human coexistence. Yes, I still have a good memory of the political battle for illustration in the fall of 1991 at the Federal Assembly. I fully understood the original government proposal, which was based on the principle that certain things must be demonstrated to a particular person in order to say that it does not meet the conditions for the performance of certain functions. However, the right has put the principle of collective guilt into our rule of law, which is in complete violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This was also linked to a very unfavourable response from the International Labour Organisation and the Council of Europe. By bringing into force, the rendering law has indeed stopped a number of people's careers, and although originally approved by the members of the Federal Assembly for five years, it still applies today. At the same time, in neighbouring Slovakia, as you no doubt know, it ceased to apply at the end of 1996. The truth is that the illustrations themselves have raised a number of litigations in the past. Many of them ended with a judgment, and it turned out that certain people, such as Jiřina Bohdalová, Jan Kanyza, Jan Skopeček and Soňa Červená, found themselves illegally in the State Security lists. Yes, Parliament agreed on a bill of illustration to expose the secret co-workers of State Security, but at the same time ensured the operation of a number of former members of the StB at the Ministry of the Interior and elsewhere, as the Minister's exception. Czech Minister Jan Ruml interpreted it so that once the exemption was granted, he held the members of the former StB in his resort. The Lustration Act thus enabled the hunt not only to the members of the StB but also to the witches, i.e. to people to cooperate with the StB forced or cooperating with it voluntarily also elsewhere than in the fight against the internal enemy. Perhaps the most striking example of the post-November kitsch is today's senator and candidate for the upcoming European elections for the TOP 09 and Mayor Jaromír Štětina. An intrepid journalist, a consistent anti-communist who became visible by campaigning to ban the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. However, you just need to study a microfiche window in the security archives and you can be greatly conspired. Štětinův braids with the State Security began on February 11, 1977, when a secret collaborator named František Sláma, František Sláma, had already been established, by the code name Alex, told Štětina that he had copied part of the Charter 77 Declaration at his workplace. StB subpoenaed Štětina, who confessed to everything and immediately gave up several of his colleagues to the State Security, who were supposedly able to bring ideologically defective text to the company. Don't get it. On the same day, Štětina signed a declaration of confidentiality and also a self-written binding act from which I quote: "As a Czechoslovak national out of my own motivations, I undertake to cooperate with the authorities of StB against the enemies of our country abroad." State Security then established a personal union for Štětin and assigned the code name plavec. The file also includes a copy of Štětinův CV and an overview of his foreign trips. "Not particularly interesting reading," said Tomáš Pecina in January 2010. However, it does not have to be uninterested to learn what the former Communist Party of Czechoslovakia thought of today's senator and candidate for European elections for TOP 09 and Mayor Jaromír Štětina: "I am a supporter of the socialist organisation of society. I stand for the principle of the need for the dictatorship of the proletariat in the first period of the socialist revolution. The strong Communist Party," I quote his words, "built on the principles of science and morally historical criteria, in my opinion" - that is, according to Jaromír Štětina - is "the only force that can change society simultaneously in a class and economically divided world." The last important document is the proposal to close the union, as the First Administration of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, i.e. intelligence, has shown interest in the informant Štětina, and has therefore taken over all documentation for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not rule out any of you, figuratively speaking, moving your bile. I took the liberty of examining the issue from another point of view. History - I quote in this context the current President of the Czech Television Council - does not have a uniform and binding interpretation. And it's reasonable and tolerant to accept it. [[16.50 hours]] I would also like to recall the legacy of one of the most respected historians and politicologists of the 20th century, British academic Edward Carr, who always emphasized that the actors of past events cannot be judged by current values and standards, but that it is always necessary to base consistently on the values, principles and contexts that apply at the time when the decisions were made and enforced. Idealizing history is certainly not wise. But it is equally unwise, sometimes even incredibly stupid history to change purposefully. That's how politics works, but not serious science. No, historical truth cannot be secured by a vote in Parliament. That is why I categorically reject the premeditated special-purpose laws to guarantee the supremacy of politics over science. The purpose of real science is to find answers to ever new and new question marks. This, however, is linked to the plurality of opinions that guarantee that the trifled thesis of the winners who write history will not prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, political competition is absolutely inevitable in parliamentary democracy, but it should be conducted primarily on the matter of the present and future. That, too, is why I will vote in favour of abolishing both the laws under consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u23	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the priority right of the Minister of Culture, I will ask Mr Pilný, who has made a point of fact, and Mr Štětina after the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have lived the whole time, which is described here from the left and from the right. We taped the brown Slanski Slánský, which was pressing his hand with Gottwald when he was executed. We heard from the school radio prosecutor who had Milada Horáková executed. I saw tanks on Hradčany Square that raided pavement in the framework of international assistance. We can say that the rendering law has its flaws - it does not distinguish the culprits and victims, the evidence on which it is based is often debatable. Maybe he's a little bearded by now, because those who should have been punished by it are already living to an age that I can't, unfortunately, call blessed. On the other hand, in this pragmatic approach, it prevents me from hearing from the left side all the time speeches that tell me that the rendering law is a symbol of something - a symbol that tells me: remember! Therefore, in any case, I will vote in favour of rejecting the law and keeping the rendering law on alert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u25	Thank you, Ambassador, and please the Minister of Culture to the microphone. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u26	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we would deny the validity of teaching principles and regulations if we thought that decades of systematic action on the mind of a person would not leave its mark. The liberalisation of the market, setting foreign policy priorities, military cooperation and other important areas of transformation of social structures were prepared quite quickly. The reconstruction of moral and value is much more difficult. Based on the unfortunate experience of denying the Holocaust, we know that there is still a need for a culture of remembrance in Europe to honor the victims and those who resisted various forms of evil. Thousands of people died in our country during the Communist regime's reign between 1948 and 1989. For political reasons, she was sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of 250,000 innocent people. Not only did the victims of political processes suffer, but also families exposed to persecution, persecution, discrimination. Children were separated from mothers and fathers, traditional social ties were broken, and human rights were severely trampled. Czechoslovakia gradually entered international isolation. The position of Czechoslovakia in relation to the international economic system has changed completely. All foreign trade has been redirected to the Soviet Union and countries called. Socialist camp. This meant a great deal of intervention in the state's current economic structure and a rapid decline in the economic level. After February 1948, the previously economically advanced Czechoslovakia received backward, economically undeveloped countries as partners and had to adapt them to the structures of their production. The unprecedented expansion of heavy industry, especially arms production without a raw material base, increased dependence on the Soviet Union. Our country was increasingly losing its Central European character and we were getting closer to a foreign Soviet model. Especially in the first half of its 40 years, socialism cost a lot of human lives spent in camps, uranium mines, and execution sites. Back in the 1980s, people were still dying at the barbed wire of our southwest border, because the communist regime was forcibly preventing them from going to the free world. The postpoúnorový regime came to power by force, and it also held to power by force. The so-called nationalization was nothing more than a massive robbery of property accumulated by generations of ancestors in the previous centuries. For these reasons and as a symbol of the post-November changes ensuring a personnel discount with the leaders - and now I will quote Act No. 198/1993 Coll. - a criminal, illegitimate and reprehensible communist regime was adopted by Law 451/1991. It was the legal and constitutionally conformal separation of the exponents of the high communist nomenclature and their aides from power. It is a legislative guarantee that representatives of totalitarian power will not return to office in a legal state operating on a different constitutional and democratic principle. It was an assumption of cleansing not only the top of the state, but also the media, justice, the Academy of Sciences, the army and security forces. Unfortunately, thanks to the media shortcut, all of this narrows down to mere co-workers of State Security, but the main function of so-called. After all, the rendering law is elsewhere. It's a condition of performance of these functions. This means that the citizen was not allowed to be secretary of the KSČ body or KSS body from 25 February 1948 to 17 November 1989, from the level of the District Committee above, except for those who held these positions only between 1 January 1968 and 1 May 1969, i.e. in the period so called. Prague Spring and immediately thereafter. Furthermore, a staff member of the KSČ body's political management section of the National Security Corps, a member of the People's Militia, a member of the National Front Action Committees or, for example, the review and standardisation commissions after the occupation of 21 August 1968, a member of the National Security Corps, classified in the Felix Dzeržinský High School or student at the Dzerjinski Council of Ministers of the USSR. I think it is often forgotten that the law of illustration was directed against the perpetrators, not against the victims, which are often viewed in the media today. I, as you know, have dealt with this issue for three years systematically as Director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. I've had the opportunity to read a number of different binding acts, I've had the opportunity, and I appreciate it, to talk to a whole bunch of people whose spines were broken by the last regime. And I know how brutally violent this collaboration has often been enforced. Let us not forget this and let us not be fooled by this media shortcut! [[17,00 hours]] Not those who were victims of often brutal psychological or physical violence, but those who were carriers of that power, who forced those other people to cooperate, who forced them to deny values and lose character - against these people is a law of illustration. And according to the chronology, it concerns people over the age of 43, that is, people who are now in full force. I think that we should not forget these things. Yes, I know very well about the weaknesses in the illustration law. It is certainly reasonable to think about them, but it must be an incentive for democratic forces, not for a party that refers to its totalitarian past and has not been able to deal with it. That is why you are not surprised that I, like all members of the KDU-ČSL club, will vote against the abolition of the Illustration Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u27	Thank you, Minister. Another registered priority is Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr Minister of Culture, through Madam President, I agree with every word that has been said from this stage from your mouth, and I would respectfully sign your contribution if you and your political party behaved as well. However, the fact is that your practical behavior is somewhat extended beyond your discussion. There is one more sentence missing - that although we are fundamentally opposed to the abolition of the rendering law, but in case we need it, we are willing to agree with the President that for the chosen ones and for certain cases the law will not apply. He'll pay, of course, in the legal order we'll find the letters, but we, the People's Party, because it suits us, agree not to apply. It's like he's not paying. In essence, if we translate your words with all due respect, you say: We are fundamentally opposed to the abolition of the Transport Act, but if we can use it, we are prepared for the chosen ones with the President to agree on an exception that someone can drive as he pleases, wherever he wants and wherever he wants. We are fundamentally opposed to repealing the Health Services Act, but if we could become government ministers, we are prepared to agree with the President on an exception that there are people who can treat without a medical diploma. You are fundamentally against abolishing the rendering law, and there are cases where you do not want it to be applied because it suits you. I also disagree with the petitioner's proposals and will vote against the abolition of the rendering law. I am not sure, however, that your attitude in its orbit is not as dangerous as that of the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr. Jiří Štětina, who is properly... Sorry. So with the de facto Minister of Culture Herman. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u30	Madam President, colleagues. Madam President, by your means, I would have responded to the words of President Kalousek. I think and understand the role of the President as an opposition politician, I guess he can't act differently. But I think he knows as well as all of us that the so-called Service Act has nothing to do with this topic. If a dragon's egg is placed somewhere in this theme, it is the accompanying act of 309 of 2002, for which the President raised his hand at the time. I think it is important to stress what I said a moment ago in my contribution - that the rendering law is aimed at the perpetrators, not the victims. Here you have to very well distinguish and honor the presumption of innocence. And we have clearly said, all KDU-ČSL ministers, that we are not interested in any places. And I think that it is quite clear, and that at the moment that this principle is broken, of course, we are going to leave these places because we consider this thing to be quite principled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u31	Thank you. With Mr Kalousek in fact and then Mr Blažek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u32	I thank you very much for the sentence contained in your reply, Minister through Madam President, that in the case of the application of the law you are ready to distinguish. And that's the joke. Of course, we can have different views on the rendering law, but we should all agree that, as long as the law is in force, it applies without exceptions and without distinction. The fact that you accept the exception that you, as the government of the Czech Republic, in case it suits you, are ignoring any law with forgiveness -- so I think that you are giving a terrible, bad signal to society not only to the law of illustration, but to any application of the law that should always apply without exceptions. [[hand gesture to the right]] Otherwise, you have the advantage of being a government minister, that you can go straight to me without a chairman. Don't hesitate next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u33	Thank you. And before I invite Mr Blažek, in writing, in fact, it takes precedence, so I will invite Mr Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind the President of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek, of one historic return to the past, namely 2006 and the negotiations on the government, which should have been built with the support of the KSČM. And Mr Kalousek certainly remembers, at the time that preceded the formation of this government, KDU-ČSL demonstrated. She demonstrated on Letná against the Communists. And then President Kalousek did not hesitate in a few months to deny all his animosities against the KSČM and simply negotiate with the ČSSD government with the support of the KSČM. I think it's good to see these connections now that he's telling us what we're doing wrong and how we should proceed. He should also realize how he has often acted in the past and often behaved according to what was right for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now ask Mr Blažek to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u36	Thank you for the floor. I will use the turnover of the Minister of Culture "Dragon's Egg." I'd just like to say to the House that I'm still hearing how applicable law and all that. It does, but it doesn't apply, and a little bit in a different context, which may not have been mentioned here. There is also a law of transgression, and in Section 21 he has offenses against the law of illustration. I would like to say to the House that it is absolutely clear - and I am assured, after interpelling the Prime Minister from last week, that this is the case - Mr. President and Mr. Bohuslav Sobotka committed an offence against the law of illustration. By making this proposal, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka has fulfilled that fact and the President is, under constitutional law, impunity, which is not his concern. The Prime Minister admitted last time that he had passed on the illustration certificate to some of the members of the government, not to some. That means the lawyer's excuse that maybe it doesn't apply to ministers, the rendering law, doesn't apply... I further say that the competent authority for the discussion of this offence is, in my opinion, because the offence was committed in the People's House and in the Prague Castle, the Office of the City District of Prague 1. I am not going to announce this because I have other experts in the House and I think that, for example, the Minister of Justice could file an appropriate complaint and that offence should be properly discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask Mr Jiří Štětina, duly signed up for the debate, to come to the microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u38	Good evening, Madam Vice-President. Thank you for your word. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think at this point the atmosphere is starting to thicken. I'm gonna loosen her up a little. Why? I think about half an hour ago, my name came up in a completely different context than my name, but I've been wearing this paper since 1992, in which I have a negative illustration certificate. [[shows all A4 page]] And I am probably one of the first citizens of this country to have this document. I didn't take it with me on purpose today to show this place I have it. Oh, no. I carry it with me all the time because I never know when anyone's gonna ask me if I have it. [[17.10 hours]] I also have to say right at the beginning of my short speech that I will not support the KSČM proposal and I will vote against it, although - and now I come to the main one - if I am not mistaken, I am third when it comes to old age in this House, so I remember very well as a four-year-old child for the liberation of the Republic, in February, the so-called Victorious February 1948. Of course, I remember everything that many previous speakers said. I could argue with them. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is pointless, because we can deal with it somewhere completely different and not here in front of our entire public, because I believe that today people don't care if this law applies or doesn't apply. And now I'm getting to the main thing I want to say. I, before I got this letter, was almost worried I wouldn't have a negative certificate. I was a doctor at the Regional Administration of the Ministry of the Interior in Hradec Králové from 1965 to 1969. I mistakenly assumed that when someone was with the cops, he would have a positive illustration certificate. It wasn't like that. I am convinced that if this law was passed, and it was certainly right, its application should have been consistent, but in the early years of the so-called revolution, because it was really the handover of the power of some swindlers to swindlers - I say that a lot in quotes - others who were mainly interested in robbing this country. And they did that perfectly. I must remind you here, now as a former member of the Ministry of the Interior: How is it possible that from the vault of the Home Secretary - I will not name him to give him God eternal glory - all of a sudden the documents that proved that many other people were either State Security snitchers or even somewhere else, that means KGB? I fear that these documents exist somewhere and that they may appear at some point, if necessary. I want to say one thing. It is certainly not right for us to abolish this law, but not because de iure or de facto, because many people were falsely accused, freed, but I know very clearly, because in 1977 I was investigated by two State Security officers in the forest, which was then accused of my former colleagues who had evidence that if the 50 years had happened, then many people who were working at the Regional Administration of the Ministry of the Interior in Hradec Králové would have gone to the wall. That's what they told me: never go to the woods with anyone. There's another way to use the password. But I can say one thing. If someone didn't sign anything, he couldn't have been on the State Security lists. I wasn't lingering, and I drove to Pardubice, where I found out if a file had been kept on me. Of course there was a file on me. I had the name doktor. It was 1977. It was interesting that State Security knew everything about my family, even my relatives, my brother-in-law, who lived in Australia, so there were spies there too, but I didn't sign anything, so it was over with me and this file was created ad acta. And in conclusion, I think it's completely unnecessary for us to feel bad about what we once said about who we wanted, what we didn't want, whether we signed it, whether we were gonna judge or not. I believe that the rendering law must remain moral. If I didn't have this sheet, then believe me, I would never be here, and I would never have been on positions that I've held since basically 1990, because I wouldn't have been sure if anyone would have drawn up that I was, even for four years, a member of the Ministry of the Interior. So let's not vote for the KSČM proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please refer to Mr Jan zahradník's microphone, which is entered into the debate. Please prepare Mr. Josef Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I applied to this discussion a few days ago, I had no idea what a difficult task I had prepared - to speak after the speeches of Mrs Semelová and Mr Grebeníček. Madam President, I would like to tell Mr Grebeníčk that what my generation remembers from the Communist regime is not just some cold assessment of history, or it is not some twist of history that is intended to harm him and his party. They're our real memories. We remember how it was back then. There were repressive elements of the regime, National Security Corps, Army, State Security with its co-workers, but in addition there was also the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia and its basic organizations, which were in every workplace. With these organisations, the party performed its leading role. Our colleagues, friends, were members of these organizations, they were members of their committees, and in truth, they sometimes interpreted humorous spoils, but the truth was that membership always discredited them in our eyes. We considered the adoption of the Illustration Law as a relief, something that would prevent the exponents of the Communist regime from participating in governance after the revolution. Relativism, with which the Communists make a motion to abolish the bill of illustration, is dangerous. If this had succeeded perfectly and this House had approved their proposal and abolished the law of illustration, we might have prepared for the fact that shortly a motion to abolish the law of unlawfulness and rejection of the Communist regime would be tabled, with the proof that he was not so completely reprehensible, that there was a possible double view of him, that perhaps somebody liked living in it. I therefore hope that the rendering law will not be abolished. Let me finish with one of those memories. She didn't die of that hope in communism. There were people, there were many who helped support her. One of them was a person I'd like to remember today. It was Karel Fořt, known as Father Karel of Radio Free Europe, who spread spiritual messages, for many he found a way to believe. monsignore Karel Fořt died on 21 January this year and we said goodbye to him on 31 January in St.Nicholas Cathedral in České Budějovice. I think that we must not allow the rendering law to be abolished because of Father Karel, and we must continue to fight the Communist regime on the watch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, do I have Mrs Hubáčková's actual comment? Mrs Hubáčková, are you registered with a factual remark? [[No.]] Okay. Then I have here an application with the priority right of Vice-President Bartošek of the House. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Representatives of the Communist Party here remember the period before 1989 with nostalgia, as if it were a time that we should all return to and be happy in it. In the words of classics, in socialism it wasn't bad to live, in summer it was warm, in winter it snowed, in spring ice melted, there were floods, which, dear children, we lost a lot. And I say here that the communist regime was a criminal one who committed treason and harmed this nation. Shooting people at the border, camping for cons, coping families, developing class hate. A period when a party book meant more than education and erudition. That's a period I don't want to go back to. And here I am saying that I would rather live and learn freedom in this imperfect time than go back and bend my neck under the bondage of communism! That is, and again, I say that the communist regime was criminal and must be told to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u43	Thank you. In fact, I have Mr Kováčik's enrollment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u44	Thank you for the floor. It's going to be very short in fact. I would like to clarify. Those words of classics didn't sound bad in socialism, but they didn't live badly in communism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u45	Thank you. In fact, I beg you, Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u46	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have recently read into a publication published by ten professors of this country, Civilization and History. I would recommend all those critics who report to different directions to see what history they have in the ancient past and to which they claim. I didn't come here to relativize or defend the indefensible. But we just each have our own visions, and if there were things in that past that we're not going to report to with any enthusiasm, let's just realize that we all have these scratches. If it was the genocide of the Indians, the indigenous population in America, under the cross, if it was two world wars thanks to right and capital, I could name it. I beg you, let us be fair to the history and devote ourselves to it completely. It's not just in the lineage that suits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give Mr Schwarzenberg the floor of priority, I have Mr Blažek in fact. Ambassador, please hold. All right. Let's switch gears.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u48	Madam President, honourable Members, when a person watched the debate, whether here in the House or in various media in recent days, I was deeply impressed by the argument that the rendering law creates inequality before the law and that this does not correspond to the Constitution. But I have to make our legal order here that happens in other fields. Every day, the courts pronounce judgments that prevent convicts from practicing their profession for some time. They'll use the verdict that the driver's license will be revoked because it's a threat. Yes, it is true, and it defends the youngsters, especially the teaching profession. Therefore, we should really care here about equality before the law, so that everyone is not limited in their possibilities, they can carry out their activities without limit. Then I agree fully. Then people who worked with the occupying power or were cops should continue to have access to state secrets. Then we really have the perfect equality here and everyone can do whatever they want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u49	Thank you, honourable Member. With Mr Blažek's actual application. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u50	Thank you for the floor. I always think I won't say another word, but the Moravian nature always gets me excited. I dare say, to the address of the KSČM, one big simplification and on one thing, I understand them. They basically, and that's just the way it is in elections, representing either those citizens who had better under the previous regime, or those who think if the regime had stayed, that they might have been better off than they are today. I'm making it very simple, and I know it. But he doesn't protect this society from you, but rather from those who left in 1989 and aren't sitting there today, but he's sitting around here somewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u51	Thank you. Another de facto, please, Mr Grospič. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Let me tell my predecessor, Karel Schwarzenberg, that the rendering laws are probably talking about something completely different from what he was talking about here, and especially in that dimension of guilt. And if we'd accepted his opinion, then we'd be talking about collective guilt here. But I guess what he meant to say is, it should be a fall, it should be a fall. So if he proves himself guilty, let him be judged and rightly condemned. But it is not possible to place collective guilt on a particular group of persons on a large scale without assessing each individual act. This could also be said that it is potentially necessary, according to not today's applicable, but former laws, perhaps even from the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the noble family, so it could be forbidden to perform any function, because he potentially held a privileged position in society at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u53	I thank Mr Grospiš. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm gonna have to read one more apology. Michal Brabec, Minister of the Environment, sent an apology of absence from the 6th meeting to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. We will continue the debate. Another factual point by Mr Pavel Kováčik. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u54	Properly electronically, Mr Vice-President, or, as was just said, in writing, my actual application was made. Just a brief response to Mr Blažek by your means, Mr President. If that were the case, the KSČM represents only the voices of those whom it is called. the previous regime has lived well or who expect it to live well if the previous regime had not fallen, that is far too great, my colleague, through the President, simplification. If that were the case, we do not have tens of thousands of new voters, new votes, and very young votes, and from that, I believe that people believe us that we are not the party of the past that many of you would like to have us for, of course, but that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia enjoys the seriousness of the electorate, it also uses authority as a party for the present and for the future, and I think it is crucial. And I'm almost sorry I didn't put the unemployment issue on the first point of the day. We could really talk about things that burn people more than anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u55	Thank you, Mr. Pavel Kováčik. In fact, the chairman of the ODS club, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u56	Thank you for the floor. I must say that I am pleased with the debate that either the whole club or the members of other members of the MPs, except, of course, the Communist club, say that they will support our proposal to reject the law at first reading, and I am really happy about it. [[17.30 hours]] On the other hand, so that we do not have such an easy fight against the relativization of the past and communism and so on, so I would like to remind you that this is a proposal from the Communist Party, its chairman sitting two rows above me, he is Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies and in secret elections - I note in secret when we were free to express our opinion - he received 151 votes from you. So it's not so easy with the fight against communism and how the memories of the past regime are relativized.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u57	I thank the President of the ODS for his factual remark and for keeping time. One final point in fact, Mrs Marta Semelová. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u58	Thank you. Mr President, I would also like to respond briefly to Mr Blažek by means of you. I'd like to correct who we represent as KSČM a little bit. We represent young families, we represent people without jobs, we represent those people who don't have the doctor, because when Mr. Svoboda spoke of SANOPZ, I just want to point out that they have to pay everywhere now. We represent retired people who don't have the money to make ends meet. And we represent those people who, and that's more than two thirds, don't even have an average wage. And if you're talking about a constant dictatorship before November 1989, I'd like to make it clear that now there's a dictatorship of lies and money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u59	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová, for keeping time on the point of fact. And we have... A colleague of Kučera's on a point of fact. I was about to summon a properly registered colleague of Hájek, but I don't stand a chance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u60	Hello again. I would just like very briefly to see Mrs Semelová through Mr President: Please, you do not represent my mum's pensioner; you do not take that from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u61	Mr Josef Hájek, now duly enrolled in the application for a debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I spoke here with a rather emotional speech during the negotiation of the service law. I'm a miner, and I'm pretty sure I'm emotional. And although I am one of those who have also been touched by the Communist period because I have been released, together with your former President of the ODS, for political reasons, from a military school, I would still like to approach the subject rather pragmatically today. Before this speech, I studied a number of professional materials and texts that dealt with the issue of the rendering law. In this context, I was most interested in a publication called Communist Law in Czechoslovakia, which was completed at the International Political Institute of Masaryk University in Brno in 2009. Among other things, at the time when the president of this university was the current chairman of the ODS. In this publication, a chapter entitled Lustrace and the course of time deals with the issue of Czech rendering laws. The author of this chapter, Mr David Kosař, Kosař in detail not only the functionality of Czech rendering laws, but also the question of how long in the context of the Czech Constitution and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights these rendering laws should work. I remind you that this is a 2009 text, but in my opinion, the ideas and conclusions of this author are still highly up to date today, after five years. The author states in the introductory part of his work - I quote: Although both the rendering laws of 1991 and 1992 were originally adopted for a period of only five years, two decades after the Velvet Revolution still remain part of the valid rule of law. And not only that, the rendering laws still create emotions and even affect the political scene at tense moments. That's what we're witnessing here today and at the last hearing. The author further states in his assessment of the rendering laws - I quote: The specific circumstances associated with the transition to democracy, which justified the adoption of Czech rendering laws after the Velvet Revolution, have passed over time, and the rendering laws should therefore be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court or abolished by the legislature itself. The author bases this argument on the claim that Czech rendering laws are nowadays, i.e. already in 2009, contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This position was shared by President Havel. He vetoed, as is known, both in 1995, and in 2000, the extension of the rendering laws with justification - I quote: These laws were intended only for the revolutionary phase and it is time to adopt an adjustment in accordance with a rule of law that does not accept collective guilt. I am not a lawyer, but I do not know another law in our legislation in which the presumption of guilt is preferred instead of the standard presumption of innocence. After almost 25 years of the Velvet Revolution, a citizen should be allowed to examine the circumstances of each case individually and every citizen of our democratic republic must have certainty of equality before the law. The author further stated in his assessment of the period of validity of the rendering laws: One. Czech illustration laws provided no justice for the victims of the Communist regime, which clearly reflects the negative attitude of many dissidents, such as President Havel, Petr Uhl or Jiřina Šiklová. Two. For example, the stories of Josef Tošovský or František Lambert, who represent the tip of the iceberg, clearly showed that the meaning of the rendering laws as an instrument of some retribution for a share in the abuses caused by the communist regime was often missed by effect. Three. As regards the prophylactic effects of illustration laws for the future, the author states - quote: If we see the justice of the rendering laws in the necessary measure for the future to prevent the infiltration of people working with the totalitarian regime into the public functions of the emerging state, this argument is based on water, as this objective can be achieved in a more gentle way than in the basic law, and the strength of this argument decreases with the passing time from the Velvet Revolution. End of quote. And with that opinion, I personally fully identify myself. The author further states - I quote: We add to the requirement of political loyalty of persons in public administration and in public services that although we agree that states have a legitimate interest in demanding a special bond of trust and loyalty from public administration employees, the examination of the loyalty of a public administration employee must be based on a material and not a formal concept of loyalty to the constitutional system of the Czech Republic. This means that the breach of the duty of loyalty must comply with at least the following principles. One. They must be of serious intensity. In particular, the topicality of the risk of disloyal behaviour must be assessed here. Whether loyalty was violated in an active or passive way and whether it was a one-off or repeated breach of loyalty or how long the duration was. Two. He has to meet the requirement of individualization. This means taking into account the individual circumstances of each case, such as breach of loyalty under duress, or even due to the use of violence. Three. The breach of loyalty must be assessed in particular with regard to the specific function held by the staff member or, where appropriate, in his intention to act. These principles are to be complied with by the law of service. End of quote. Today, almost 25 years since the Velvet Revolution, it has really been time to discuss the resurgence or the abolition of the rendering law. In my opinion, however, we must first approve the service law. If the Service Act is approved this year, which I firmly believe, we should return to the issue of the Illustration Act and, until then, I will vote against the rejection of the KSČM proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u63	I thank Mr Josef Hájek, and before I give the floor to Mr Michal Kučer, his party colleague, with a factual remark, preceded him. So I give the word of František Laudát to a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u64	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say to my previous speaker's margo that the paper can handle anything. I don't know, I didn't hear the name of the author of this outrageous crap. Again, I'm going to repeat that it's not just a question of its own law, it's a moral view of what happened here before 1989. [[17.40 hours]] They once met a clergyman from a number of great world religions and talked about what civilization on this planet could even agree on. Eventually they disagreed at all, however, in the game there were these criteria: the right to life, the right to own property, honestly acquired, of course, and the right to freely confess religion. When we look at it, what pre-November communists were doing. The right to life - you will not ask Horáková, Slánský and others again. The right to own - I guess it's pointless to repeat how many people have been stolen property, how many people have been expelled from their native homes, how many people have been taken from their businesses, from the smallest to the largest. The right to confess religion - something we remember when Shemík was a Šemík and the Hradčany were still wooden. So as far as I know, when someone dared to sign up for a religious class, a massage followed, and only a few dared to go there. So what are we talking about here today? Stupid things like someone writes in some kind of analysis, so I'll bring you a thousand books that tell you the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u65	I thank Mr František Laudát. With a factual point still Mr Blažek and then a colleague Josef Hájek, also a factual point. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u66	I have a request and a protest at the same time. Whether you like it or not, Václav Havel was one of the greatest personalities of our history, and perhaps European, of the last century. He's tearing my ears off when every word in this place is used in the interpretation in which everyone likes it, and I don't think that this personality deserves it at all. Now I'm not just going to the KSČM, I'm going in general. If we quote him, so be it, but let's not be an interpreter because we disrespect him. After all, I mean, if anyone has the right to interpret it sometimes, he's the only person -- and that's Karel Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u67	Thank you. Now also a colleague, Josef Hájek, with a factual remark and then Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u68	I'm still sorry, I promised I wouldn't get emotional, but I can't. So at the end of the day, I kind of misjudged myself a little bit. So, just until the record, once again, I'm going to vote in favour of rejecting the KSČM proposal until the service law passes. To abolish the rendering law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u69	I thank Mr Hájek and now Mr Michal Kučera with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u70	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, recent efforts to falsify our history have been multiplying, particularly by the KSČM. Just from the speeches of my communist pastors, there's literally a chill on the back. Let him give you other fresh cases of trying to fake our history from the last few days. The Vice-President of the House, Mr Filip, has now relativized the criminality of the occupation of the Czechoslovak Republic by the Soviet army and the armies of the Warsaw Treaty of 1968. He said so in connection with the death of traitor Vasil Biĺak, who was the author of the invitation letter to Leonid Brežněv. And the other case is, without a doubt, the efforts of the Communists to abolish the Illustration Law and to counter the role of Communist State Security agents after 1989. The abolition of the rendering law would not be merely a formal act, but it would in fact be another rehabilitation of the criminal communist regime. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should prevent this not only because this attempt is irreversible, but also because the adoption of this standard would mean a step back in our modern national history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u71	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. Mr. Jiří Koubek, who I ask to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u72	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I'm one of those people who's not covered by the rendering law, so maybe it would be nice if I kept my mouth shut. If you don't mind, I'll talk after all. I've never been faced with a choice to enter or join a criminal organization. Luckily, I was protected. However, my older brother already had this choice, fortunately his parents had it in terms of morale in their head, and so they never told him: Entering a criminal organization, you will be better off, you will be able to study foreign trade attp. Before this choice or any other choice of life, my children's grandparents were not even built, who, in the 1950s, one evening a neighbor knocked on the window and told them that they would be evicted in the morning, because at a meeting of the local communist cell, it was simply decided that the two largest landlords in every village in the area would be moved away in the morning. Grandfather got into the mine, and Grandma got to the farmhouse, which nationalized JZD, so that she wouldn't spoil at all by her actions, allowed her to live there, so that she wouldn't spoil socialist workers and peasant youth, so they blocked her entrance and she had to make her own entrance towards the manure. I remember the time when I was in my house, even when I was a little boy, whispering, when it was just not allowed to talk out loud, when we were worried, which neighbor would rat out. It was a crooked time, and I remember her as a child. There is only so much reason why I too dare to speak in this debate, because I certainly would not want my children to live at a similar time. Because I would never wish to be ashamed of myself for being a member of the Chamber of Deputies, who closed my eyes to these crimes of the previous regime so that this proposal, which we are discussing today, would go through the second reading. Now allow me to use a number of public figures prepared by a fellow mayor Věslav Michalík of Dolní Břežan, whom I asked to agree to quote these data. The Lustration Act limits access to certain functions in government to people who have been involved in the law in a defined way with the Communist regime and who were born before 1. 12, 1971. At the beginning of its application, the rendering law covered around 6 million potential candidates, i.e. people aged 20 to 60 years, and a limited range of state-paid functions. In 20 years, the figure at the end of 2011, which the colleague managed to locate, was settled 458 thousand 440 applications according to the so-called. The great rendering law and 10,000 45 of it were positive. According to the so-called The small rendering law was 24,000 295 requests, of which 4,000 745 were positive. So in 20 years, less than 30,000 people have been prevented from doing some state-paid work in leadership. It is also worth mentioning that 75 per cent of the applications were submitted in the first three years of application of this law. The number of requests with increasing time is dropping sharply. When we look at the situation today, the number of people who are working age and are born before 1. 12, 1971, fewer than three million. In ten years, there will be about half of them, about one and a half million. The number of applications for illustration certificates is now in thousands per year and the number of negative certificates in hundreds. This means that only a few hundred people per year will be prevented from accessing some of the selected functions in the administration. Is it too much or too little? Is this recording to opponents or proponents of this law? [[17.50 hours]] I join the mayor's words, which he published on his website, that it is sufficient to ensure that nothing changes and that these laws are kept in force. It is worth keeping them in force precisely because they will only hit a few hundred cases a year, or even because of that, and that is why there is no reason for a company that has set some rules here after 1989 that it should back off after some time. This is about principle. This is about us not being ashamed of our children and our children not being ashamed of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u73	I thank Mr Jiří Koubek. That was the last one entered into the debate. This is Mr Radim Fiala, chairman of the Dawn Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u74	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to express myself very briefly and briefly for the Dawn movement. Of course, we discussed this bill at the MP's club as much as all of you did, and we agreed not to actively support the abolition of the Illustration Act. However, it is also important to add that this law already has a lot of mistakes today and, in our view, a fair option would be to initiate the amendment of the rendering law, for example, so that people who are cleared by the court of cooperation with the State Security could be removed from these lists and could apply for a negative illustration certificate. We simply need a 21st-century law for people who want to work in public administration and public service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u75	Thank you to the chairman of Radim Fial. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a general debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. Final words - Deputy plaintiffs Mrs Zuzka Rujbrová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u76	You and I have a good afternoon. Colleagues and colleagues, your discussion focused on looking back, some nostalgically, some pejoratively, also inspired me to feel like a receptionist. If you remember, it used to be a pre-November joke: What's a reception? A folk party to which the people rejoice through their duly elected representatives. And so, dear members of the government coalition, you prefer that you vote, that for some of your cauldron the chandeliers simply do not need a chandelier, that does not concern you, and the people, who simply somehow manage, do not expect anything good from Parliament anyway. In this context, I would like to congratulate the ANO movement in particular, which has actually brought a new wind to a dank Czech political backyard and have perfectly adapted not only in the functions and with the pre-bends associated with them, but also in the procedural practices of this honourable legislature, where they have learned how not to make another part of their body out of their mouth and how to change our minds best by saying that we will do it better and happier than those who are trying to do it in some way. The least coalition side of KDU-ČSL made me happy. At least because of them, and it is not common, the KSČM proposal was also known to the wider public this time, even though it was the mouse-screaming method. I would only dare to tell this political subject that even under the cloth can be dirty laundry. And my colleagues, I would like to call on all of you to vote so that you can look your children in the eye, as many of you have said, but also your parents and grandparents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u77	Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u78	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself to make a single reply to the appellant, and to vote the way I will vote, precisely so that I can look my parents and grandparents in the eye. [[Storming applause from the right side of the hall.]] Otherwise, I note that it has been submitted by President Stanjura for the ODS club a motion to reject this bill, which was then supported in the debate by a number of other speakers, which I will not name and quote, and I think we should vote on this proposal at this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-007-017.u79	Yes, I confirm that I have in my notes the first interruption of proposals for rejection from both my colleague Stanjura and my colleague Farský and others. We'll decide that in the vote that I'm going to launch, but first I'm going to sign you off and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. On the proposal itself, once the number of Members present is settled, we will vote in the 95 series vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote serial number 95 entered 167 for 121, against 39. [[Storm applause from the right.]] The motion was accepted. It means that the bill ends because the rejection has passed. I'm done with point 17. Thank you, Madam Vice-President, thank you, rapporteur. We'll continue with the next points. The next item is
