ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-010-08-011-071.u1	71. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Polčák, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 82/1998 Coll., on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration and on amendment of the law of the Czech National Council No. 358/1992 Sb., on notaries and their activities (notary order), as amended /house print 23/ - third reading The motion for rejection and amendments have not been tabled. I'm opening up a debate and I'm asking if anyone is applying for it. Deputy plaintiffs, Mr. Polčák, reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-010-08-011-071.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am speaking first of all in order to reject to some extent the doubts raised in the approval of this bill, particularly in the constitutionally-legal committee, which unfortunately did not adopt the resolution on the support of this proposal, therefore did not accept the opposite proposal to reject this press, while perhaps the inspection committee adopted a proposal recommending it. I want to say that, in my opinion, this law is really very important. He is dealing with one fundamental circumstance that each of us may be dealing with in our lives, and that is a question of compensation for damage. If someone harms you, of course, it's up to you to recover the damage from the pest. If the employer harms his employee, it is up to him whether he will recover this damage from his staff, but, of course, the legislation gives him authorisation. Unfortunately, in the case of public authorities, the legislation, as it is adopted today, and even as it is conceived, but also as it is applied, has a fundamental deficiency in the fact that the damage caused in the exercise of public authority by an official or executive politician, which is in a decisive position, is not recovered. I think you've been confronted with numbers, too. I can at least say some of them. During the entire operation of the Czech justice system, the damage caused by the judges, and it actually goes at least through the hundreds of millions, was enforced only after less than ten people, after ten judges in 20 years. Ask yourself if it is enough of those that the state calls to account when it pays the damage to the taxpayers. In the Ministry of Industry and Trade - I don't know how it is now, but in the past - only four percent of the damage was recovered from officials. Ninety-six percent didn't enforce at all. And I want to say that the law doesn't solve the fact that we want an official or anyone who decides to put him in some position in which he should feel completely uncomfortable, no way. We only want the state to have a duty to enforce the damage, but in the limits, as stipulated by the law. That means, of course, a clerk can't, if he doesn't do the damage intentionally, there's another adjustment, but if he causes it by his guilty actions, he'll answer the same as any other employee up to 4.5 times his salary. That's limited. I really want to disprove the kind of pointless dances that have a little connection with this law that officials will be afraid to make decisions. This is the first argument that very often sounds. If they are afraid to make decisions, they commit maladministration, they are inactive, they have delays, and the more they will pay. So inaction would certainly not pay off officials in this regard. Two. Limitation of the amount of the refund. It's limited by law. If an official causes damage by his fault, but not by deliberate action, it is up to 4.5 times his monthly salary. It's just like the staff. [[13.40 hours]] And three. Unfortunately, what some colleagues from the ODS have argued, I want to make a mistake. It is interesting that precisely this regulation, this bill has put the House in the legislative process yet the government of Prime Minister Nečas, who also considered the application of the law to be very, let's say in quotes, special if the damage is not enforced. The Prime Minister Petr Nečas' government itself proposed this principle, agreed. So I believe that colleagues from the ODS will also be equally consistent in the vote, which will probably soon be passed by the House and this plenary. I don't really find the only reason that the only victims in a whole series of those responsible for the damage should be the taxpayer. Of course, each of you must answer this question, whether it is meant to be the only injured one who will actually pay for the fact that there is no damage to officials and politicians in executive office, if they actually decide within the meaning of the institution, the administrative office. I really do not see any reason to have in the law such a blessing that the State itself decides - it can - the word in the law is - it changes into an obligation to do, in the sense of extortion of damage, that is, there is really no reasonable reason for the State to be benevolently deciding whether to recover such damage. The word "can", I think, acts very destructively at the moment the state is to act, as at least two resorts have shown. Fourthly, in order to eliminate the hardness of possible impacts in the sense that someone should actually be responsible for the damage that has occurred, decision making would therefore have to be very difficult. The legislation proposed knows the so-called liberating reasons why the pest, the official, or the politician must be released. Then, of course, the court would decide that in such a case it would not impose an obligation to compensate for the damage. Liberating reasons are given precisely. I think, according to the legal theory, it can't be personal property. I just want to say that to the Margo of what was proposed by the YES movement. As sympathetic as I was to the proposal, we would have violated the principles on which there is a regression in civil law. I think it's really pointless for us to bring into law institutes that are just unverified. I won't keep you any longer. I only firmly believe that today's vote, because I have repeatedly advocated the standard, last time the amendment was rejected by such a special rainbow coalition of colleagues from ODS, ČSSD and communists, I firmly believe that there will be a sufficient number of Members here today who will address the fundamental problem, who should be the one who will pay the damage that has obviously been incurred by the state, and who should be in the last row. Whether it is to be a taxpayer, as is the current practice, or whether it is to be that official within the limits and rules that the law provides. I don't change almost anything about them, only one magic word "may" I change for "obligatory." And I would be very happy if you would join this principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-010-08-011-071.u3	Thank you, counselors. I was tolerance alone. My colleague Polčák was probably speaking for the last time in this House. They will certainly not be this tolerant of him in the European Parliament. Now also the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-010-08-011-071.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to follow up on Mr. Deputy Speakers of this press. When I was in opposition and my colleague Polčák in the coalition, and today, when I am in the coalition and my colleague Polčák in the opposition, this press, I support and support this idea. I think it's quite right to ask an official, a judge, a state's representative to do the damage to make him liable to replace it. Of course, what he said that officials would be afraid to decide is nonsense. Because an official simply has to decide, in the administrative order, we have deadlines, of course, in other laws of administrative law, and there is simply an obligation to issue a decision. So it's not about the clerk being afraid to make a decision. He just has to decide. If, of course, he decides wrong, illegally, or doesn't decide because he's going to miss some deadlines, that's his mistake, which he should pay for in quotes. So I support this press. Mr Polčák said quite rightly that, unfortunately, during the last term of office, this press did not pass by a few votes at the third reading. I believe that it will pass today, and I think that would be a good thing for the state of public administration in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-010-08-011-071.u5	Thank you. I repeat that there has not been a motion for rejection, nor are there any amendments, I do not have anyone enrolled in the debate, I am ending the debate. I don't think he's interested in final words anymore. We will proceed to the vote on the entire text of the law. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members of Stanislav Polčák, Petr Gazdík and others to issue a law amending Act No. 82/1998 Coll., on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration and on amendment of the law of the Czech National Council No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities, as amended, according to the House's press 23." [[Notary Regulations]] I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of the bill. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 190 of 129 for 51, against 57. The motion was not accepted. I am of the opinion that no consent has been given to the bill. I thank the representatives of the appellants, thank the rapporteur. I'm done with this point. Another performance by my colleague Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-010-08-011-071.u6	I've only been for a very short time. Although the vote has gone this way, I will probably no longer be able to express myself in this way publicly. I would like to wish you all every success in your personal family life from the left to my favorite right. So, while this law has not passed, I have nothing left to do but try to enforce it at European level so that you have to accept it afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-20-ps2013-010-08-011-071.u7	I thank my colleague Polčák. Before starting the next point, allow me to state further apologies. Minister Válková within 15 hours, Member Zuzka-Bebarová Rujbrová from 14:00 to the end of the working day and colleague Vozdecký from 13:00 to 14:00 for health reasons. At 2:00 p.m. Mrs. Věra Kovářová. The next item is:
