ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-021-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The President of the Chamber of Deputies convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 40 Members, this meeting and the invitation were distributed to you through the Members' Clubs on Monday, 3 November. Members were informed of the convening of the meeting in a timely manner. I beg you all to log in with ID cards and report who has a replacement card or who is applying for it. The replacement cards and their numbers, if issued, are in the protocol of the 20th meeting, and if you do not object, I will not repeat them. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Ms Jana Černochová and Mr Pavel Čihák as the verifier. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone, so we can vote. We will decide in the vote order number 1 and I ask who is in favour of identifying these verifiers. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1, from 117 Members present for 110, against 1. I am of the opinion that the verifier of the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was appointed by the Chamber of Deputies, Ms Jana Černochová and Mr Pavel Čihák. I say that apologies were received before the opening of the meeting for not attending the meeting and I ask if anyone requests to read the apologies from the 20th meeting. It's not like that. Apologies therefore also apply to meeting 21. We'll proceed to the 21st meeting. The proposal is listed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the Chamber of Deputies only on the agenda set out in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the agenda, nor can the approved agenda be extended. We will decide in the vote the order number 2 I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the approval of the agenda. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2, from 135 Members present for 117, against no one. The proposal, as submitted in writing, was approved. We will therefore proceed to the agenda. The first point of our negotiations is
