ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like to inform you that I've called this meeting... [[A silence to lower the noise levels in the room.]] I called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 44 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 16 July. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mrs Strnadlová has card number 10 and I am voting with card number 1. Mr Kolovratník - card number 13. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. I'll ask if there's another proposal for a meeting verifier. It's not like that. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. [[It's gonging.]] We will vote on the verifiers. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that Mrs Hnyková and Mrs Zelienková be the verifiers of this meeting, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 1. There's 130 logged in, 126, no one's against it. I am of the opinion that we have designated Ms Jana Hnyková and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková as the verifiers of the 13th meeting of the House. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members of the Government asked to apologise for their absence: Member Adam - health reasons, Mrs Adamová - personal reasons, Mr Bartošek until 12 and from 17 a.m. - working grounds, Mr Běhounek - working Zemánek, Mr Brázdil - working grounds, Mr Gabal - without reason, Mr Gazdík until 12 a.m. - working grounds, Mr Holeček - personal reasons, Mrs Chalánková - health reasons, Mr Jandák - health reasons, Mr Kalousek - personal reasons, Mr Karamazov - personal reasons, Mr Kádner - working grounds, Mr Korte - working grounds, Mr Kostřica - working grounds, Mr Nekl - working grounds, Mr Ondráček - health Vozka, Mr Ondráček - Zavadil reasons, Mr Pilný - working grounds, Mr Rykala - personal reasons, Mr Rykala - personal reasons, Mr Skalický - personal reasons, Member Štětina - health reasons, Mr Toufar - personal reasons, Member Tureček - working reasons, Mrs Váhalová - working grounds - personal reasons, Mr Váhalová - personal reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical reasons, Mr Voude Member. Of the Prime Minister's members, the Prime Minister apologizes from 11:00 for work reasons, Vice-President Bělobrádek from 10:30 to 12:00 for work reasons, Minister Dienstbier for work reasons, Minister Marksová? - she is here, so she probably does not apologize, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Stropnickýý - working reasons and Minister Válková within 11 hours - also working reasons. Those were some apologies. We would now proceed to the agenda of the 13th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I would like to remind you that pursuant to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition of the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. I have here an application with the priority right of Vice-President Filip, to whom I will give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to approve the agenda for this meeting, because I believe that the Chamber of Deputies is aware of the procedure of the state authorities in implementing Act No. 428/2012 Sb., o so-called Real estate settlement with churches and religious societies and amending certain laws is very important. Why is it very important? Because at this point, there is a dispute about whether or not there is a uniform methodological instruction on how to proceed with this law. [[It's busy in the hall.]] If you have noticed during our proposal to announce that we are interested in the House reporting it on Czech Television on the Event, commentary, the Minister of Culture has stated that there is no methodical instruction. A spokesperson for the State Land Office said there was a methodical instruction. It's right here in front of me. However, the methodological instruction does not include all the things that need to be implemented in this case. I am saying this quite seriously, because there are certain excesses that we should not pass away as legislators in the control of executives. Firstly, there are a number of duplicate, triplicit and multiple requests for property, which have been in some way since 1919 in property property movement such that it is not at this time clear whether the application corresponds to the text of the law, either by not respecting the law on the first land reform of 1919, or by reviewing the land reform of 1947, or by not respecting the decisions of the court at all, so that neither res iudicat is respected for the fact that such property belongs under the diction of this law or does not belong. In 1996, for example, he requested the premonstrates' order to issue land in Jevišovice, Písecko, and this property was expropriated in 1919. He was the subject of an allocation system after 1945. The allocation was obtained by specific natural persons. These natural persons paid him off, so they paid properly for this property and fulfilled the terms of this law on the first land reform. They then put the property into the cooperative, then asked for it back in 1991, and yet a restitution claim was applied to it by the Premonstratensian Code. He dealt gradually with the Regional Court, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, when the entire judicial system, including the Constitutional Court, decided that such a claim was not here, because the property was not the order since 1919, because, as many of you know, the law on the first land reform transferred the property immediately and remained only in the administration of the original owner until the payment of the compensation, which, of course, was mandatory there. That is one thing where the request is simply repeated, and it is not clear how the State Land Office will treat it when it is clear here that this agricultural land is essentially not only outside the property of the Church, that it has never belonged to it since 1919, but that it is now the property of a natural person who is certainly not a person liable. I don't know if we intend to question any property transfers here after 1991. If that is what you want, then, of course, we must take political responsibility for it. I don't want that political responsibility on this matter. [[9.10 hours]] The second thing that is very important and that has led me to think about it. It is not clear in the methodological instruction how the State Land Office, or the National Monument Institute or other authorities concerned proceed. It is clear here that mandatory persons are not exactly defined in this. The law says who's a mandatory person. It says that these are the Forests of the Czech Republic and the State Land Office, which, among other things, arose just before this law was adopted, by merging the Land Fund and the Land Office. People went over there, paperwork went missing, and there was a rather difficult situation already at the time of reception. Other obliged persons are not listed there, there is only a reference to others. Other mandatory persons, for example, may be state estate in Kájov in liquidation, military forests and the like, because they are state authorities. The problem, however, is that even these obliged persons are not in a relationship with each other, so that there is a single record that separates the duplication of applications and that we are able to find out what is asked for and what is already in the property of municipalities or there is another contractual relationship, such as a contract for a future contract, that the specific order or church will not ask for it. In this respect, it is important that the methodological instruction is either refined as internal normative instructions and that it applies to all obliged persons. This means that all obliged persons will have to follow the law, with care of the proper economic operator. Because if we leave out a document, and Section 8 of the Act states that documents are documents, for example, according to the construction law, the document must also be a drawing document for a specific sheet of ownership. I'm going to give it to the classic example that led me to think about it at all. First, the law forbids those premeditated, that is, entitled persons, from dealing with property for two years by alienating it. However, the fact that this requirement is not met has been pointed out by real estate agencies, who are directly concerned that the assets issued will be sold directly. This means that a specific legal person is acting contrary to the law and wants to circumvent the law by directly selling the property that has been physically issued. However, this is essentially illegal activity and contradicts the legislator's intention. It is therefore unclear and clearly missing according to the methodological instruction how many obliged persons are in the Czech Republic. It is also clear that it is not possible to trace how many rejections were made because it was found that the plot was completely or partially built up and that there was all documentation. Nor is it clear how much is in the so-called open administrative extradition or non-release procedure according to the methodological instruction of the State Land Office. Moreover, it is evident that at the moment the State Land Office is forced to do what it should have done legitimately, that is, to identify the land according to the land cadastral with the land that is led in the land cadastral, i.e., as it is said, whether there are five or six plots of land under PK and there is one large plot in the simplified register of the land cadastral, on which it is, for example, a construction site. I always like to present our teaching center in Hněvkovice near Týn nad Vltavou, which is requested by the Archbishop of Prague. It states that the land is free area, but they are all built up and there is still a pipe under that land that brings water for cooling to the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant. We must be aware that since 1990, or since 1948, there has been a certain construction activity that has either loosened the land or burdened it, and should be recorded in the drawing documentation and the binding text part itself cannot be sufficient proof that the land is not burdened. In this respect, state land authorities issue costs which should have been justified and not compulsory. It is also unclear how the Office for State Property Rights is proceeding. In this respect, therefore, it is not clear why he would not enter into this, when a number of real estates of a construction nature which can certainly be issued, because they were already as real estate to those entitled, why does the land office treat them when they are not of an agricultural nature. What's most serious is that we can't find out. When we ask a question, it's answered in a way that doesn't fit the law on public access to information. I think that if MEPs do not get it, then how are the citizens of the Czech Republic to view the process, who, as you well know, have never agreed to the law. In this respect, I must say that these are the reasons that led me, together with the other 44 colleagues, to ask for this meeting, which does not harm our programme, because so far we are in the process of discussing the third reading on Wednesday and Friday and that Thursday we can use for this matter, to clarify which can be very quick when the government responds to us, such as the Minister of Agriculture, until when the methodological instruction will apply, or the Minister of Culture, if the methodological instruction will apply to the National Monument Institute and when the government will give us, for example, an overall list of how many applications there are and how many they are dealt with, because it is very difficult to find out at this point. If the agenda of the meeting is approved, I will present a motion for a resolution in a detailed debate that requires nothing but that we obtain this information and that we can also communicate it to the citizens who come to my office every Monday and ask me these questions. We added to this what you, fellow Members of the government coalition, did not let us realize, and you promised us in June that there would be a change in the House's bodies, which means that the new MEPs who joined the MEPs will be included in the committees and that we will also change the seating arrangements according to what the different clubs require. That is why I think it would be appropriate for you not to prevent this agenda from being held so that we can obtain information in peace and without any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u3	Before I say another word, I will read an apology from Mr Sedlář, who apologizes for today's business trip negotiations. Now here I have four requests for a performance with priority rights. The Prime Minister will speak first, then Deputy Prime Minister Babiš, then President Okamura and then President Mihola. So in that order, please. Prime Minister, you have your word. - Mr Laudát, Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, this is certainly a historic paradox, because I am the Prime Minister in a situation where the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies is being implemented. In the past period, however, I was among those Members who voted against the adoption of this bill for a number of reasons. Among other things, we have also stated that sufficient control mechanisms are not set in the law and that the law is based on a very unrealistic scenario in terms of the expected volume of assets issued and legal deadlines as set in the draft law. However, the then government coalition enforced the bill against the will of the opposition, the law also passed the constitutionality test from the point of view of the complaint to the Constitutional Court that was filed, and at this time the government of the Czech Republic is responsible for complying with the laws in connection with the implementation of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. Until the law is amended, we need to respect this law as well as other laws of the Czech Republic. I would like to remind you that there is an amendment on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies which concerns this law. It is an amendment tabled by a group of Members. It proposes an extension of certain deadlines for the issue of church property, but this amendment has not yet been discussed by the Chamber of Deputies, has not been approved, and, as far as I know, there are no other bills in the legislative process that would alter the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. I have listened to at least the part of the speech by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Filip, where I could have been present, and I must say that precisely this area of problems falls within the competence of the Government Committee, which was set up by the Government on 17 March this year. As you may know, ladies and gentlemen, I proposed at the beginning of this year, shortly after a new Czech government was established, to set up a government committee on the effects of the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. This Government Committee is an advisory body of the Government and its main activity is to assess the effects of the Act on property compensation on a continuous basis. The government approved the establishment of this government committee on 17 March this year. In addition to the Prime Minister, the Government Committee consists of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Justice. Permanent guests are regularly invited to the meeting of the Committee, currently top representatives of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs, the State Land Office, representatives of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic and the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The committee has met three times so far. It presents reports to the government, the government last discussed the committee report at its meeting on 21 May this year. First, this government monitoring committee has the task of obtaining information on how the issue of church property takes place on the basis of the relevant law in individual state institutions. Of course, it also has the opportunity to assess how the law is being implemented and, above all, to monitor the ongoing problems that arise in the implementation of the property settlement law with the churches. I would like to propose - and, of course, may be heard here in the debate in the context of even more preferential rights, other topics, questions, critical comments concerning the very issue of church property - the Chamber of Deputies following the procedure. We would have gathered all these comments, which will appear at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today. At the same time, we would provide individual members of the club with the opportunity to supplement these initiatives further to a certain date. As Prime Minister, I would turn to all Members' Club Chairs, and we would, as a whole, refer this agenda to an emergency meeting of the Government Monitoring Committee, where we would deal with all these individual problems, as we gather them from the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of today's debate or on the basis of the initiatives of individual Members' Club Presidents, because the Government Monitoring Committee is exactly the structure that has competence to deal with these issues. Of course, we cannot enter the law, we cannot replace the procedure of the individual authorities, which is also bound by internal regulations and laws, but I think that the government's monitoring committee is a place where we can discuss all these problems, where we can request documents from individual institutions, so that the government is assured and subsequently the Chamber of Deputies is assured that the course of the church restitutions is carried out in accordance with the law and that they are not issued property to which the churches are not legally entitled. I want to make it clear that the government has a clear interest in avoiding any doubt as to the issue of state property during the religious restitutions. We clearly have an interest in ensuring that all the necessary documents are supported for decision making made by individual state institutions in this process. However, I am prepared to provide the Chamber of Deputies subsequently with written information from the Government Monitoring Committee, in which the Government Monitoring Committee will comment on all the initiatives that will be put forward by the Chamber of Deputies. This seems to me to be a rational way of dealing with the doubts associated with the process of religious restitution. So we will gather the evidence today and, within a few days, let us convene an extraordinary meeting of the Government Monitoring Committee and prepare a clear response for the Chamber of Deputies. And I am ready to speak at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I already have one point prepared there, and that is the response to the interpelations concerning children in Norway, so I would have one more point at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where I would like to report on the opinion of the Government Monitoring Committee. So that is the procedure I would like to propose in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Vice-President of the Government of Babiš will next appear. President Okamura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, colleagues, the YES movement honors the principle that what has been stolen must be returned. However, we do not agree with the way the Church restitutions of the Nečasův and Kalouskův government were negotiated. The former coalition failed to explain to the citizens how amounts of CZK 75 billion, i.e. the value of the property to be returned to the churches, and not even the sum of CZK 59 billion, to be paid by the state to the churches gradually for 30 years. The government of Nečas and Kalousek, which increased people's taxes, reduced pensions and support for the sick and disabled, could not explain why they were saving and giving away to the churches. This too proves that the economic crisis was not as deep as the supposed right-wing government tried to tell us. In November 2012, the former coalition itself passed the law after the Senate veto with the help of 12 non-attached Members, and it did not even shield itself from the vote of the then-unrighteous, but today-finally sentenced Member for ODS Pekárek. The government pushed the restitution law through the House regardless of the opinion of most citizens. At the time of the adoption of the law, about 80 percent of our citizens were already opposed to the form of church restitution. In addition to the above mentioned amounts, citizens will contribute more than CZK 1 billion a year to the operation of the churches for several years a year. The former coalition never sought that the law on religious restitution be transparent and in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The ČSSD's intention, which promised a significant reduction in the state's financial payments under church restitution before the elections, to ensure that the compensation was adequate and truly fair, has so far failed. Churches will not be deprived of replacements. Restitution processes have already begun and often bring problems to both self-government and private owners, not to mention the litigation that can be expected in the future. The whole process of adopting the law on religious restitution was transparent and unfair to citizens who had nothing to do with churches and events after 1948. Politicians who are to represent the interests of the state have completely failed here, and I hope that the churches themselves will not fail. I would like to believe that at least they will perform their duties in society, namely to offer spiritual support and care to old, sick and poor people, to raise children and their education. The law is passed and its validity is confirmed by the Constitutional Court. It is now up to churches and religious societies to make the entire process of restitution as transparent as possible and to turn to the state and its citizens in a kind way. [[9.30 hours]] Coping with the state was the only one who refused the Brotherhood of Baptists. The other churches insist on returning property and cash compensation. The state, in turn, should insist that churches at least publish how they dispose of the returned property and money. The aim of the state and the churches should be essentially identical: to work for the welfare of citizens of the Czech Republic regardless of their nationality and religion. The ANO MP's club has decided that the report on religious restitution is not necessary to discuss the emergency meeting to be used for the presentation of urgent laws and standards, as is the case, for example, in the case of the Civil Service Act. We can hear the information at the proper meeting of the House in September. I believe that we will find common ground with the churches, that they will reconsider whether the monetary compensations that have been raised on inflation for 30 years and will not be subject to taxation, against our budget, state and citizens, are being replaced by just ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u7	Mr Okamura, the President of the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr Mihola, is now taking the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start differently, but I would briefly like to respond to my previous speakers. We have a slightly different opinion about this with the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister here was talking about the House informing the House. That's it. [[unintelligible]] Here I see a fundamental contradiction with what the Dawn promotes. We would like to inform the vast majority of citizens of the Czech Republic who are interested in this problem and feel that the information is insufficient. So we would like to inform the citizens of the Czech Republic, the nearly ten million, not including small children, because they are probably unable to perceive this information. And the Prime Minister would like to inform the President of the MP's club. That is precisely when we turn our backs on the problem, and that is why we need to talk about the problem. As for Vice-President Babiš, I have already been positively tuned in because I thought there would be room to talk about this issue, and now I hear now that there will be no room at all. Therefore, allow me for the YES movement, which means that it is not the will to approve the agenda for this meeting so that there is room for questions that are of interest to the vast majority of the citizens of the Czech Republic, so that we can ask them in more detail. I'm gonna say what the biggest problem is, right now, to pick up what we're dealing with here over and over and over, and we're gonna figure it out. The law on religious restitution was enforced without public discussions against the will of the vast majority of citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm stating a simple fact without emotion. And this statement I would say and say in any other law if I felt the same way. So don't look for anything else. I feel the dissatisfaction of the overwhelming majority of citizens with this process, which citizens have not been able to express directly, all year round, on hundreds of meetings with citizens. It's logical. After all, it is CZK 75 billion worth of assets and tens of billions more on financial compensation. The Dawn Movement promotes direct democracy, which means that we are pushing for citizens to really rule in our country, not elites or party oligarchies, as unfortunately it has been, and as I see it, it still is. That's what our country looks like: stolen and indebted. The ČSSD attacked its voters with a statement just before the elections, and again, and I have already learned this method, quoting directly from the ČSSD website, and it literally says here - I am starting to quote: "The ČSSD rejects the right-wing government of church restitution, because they are unfair, overpriced and high-risk to the state." He further writes: "If the ČSSD receives sufficient mandate from voters in October elections, it will use all its power to correct this injustice. It will seek a significant reduction in the State's financial compensation for unissued church property so that the compensation is proportionate and fair." Furthermore, ČSSD writes: "They will not allow the extradition of property owned by the churches before February 25, 1948, and they will consider the possibility of introducing tax letters that could be used in future to finance the churches. " End quote from the ČSSD website. And what happened after the election? Indeed, part of the responsible ČSSD Members felt that the promises to voters were to be fulfilled, and the unwillingness of its President Bohuslav Sobotka to fulfill the promises tried to break through a party referendum. The vote on whether or not the ČSSD is to fulfil its electoral promises, which it has lured hundreds of thousands of voters to, has been prevented by the Prime Minister. Instead, the members of the Party may vote in a referendum on quotas for women. Here you can see the real approach to fulfilling the electoral promises and the democracy of the Prime Minister's people or his Human Rights Minister Dienstbier. According to them, people have every right: to jump on their false electoral promises. In a specific case, we can see why these café defenders of human rights are afraid of real democracy. In no democracy such a crooked and poorly written law as the one about church restitution would ever pass. In a referendum, people would recall both the pasquila and its fine creator. We initiated this extraordinary meeting as the Dawn movement as we consider the topic of restitution to be extremely important, topical and sensitive given the financial volume. As strongly as the theme of restitution among citizens is now resonating very little. We think that citizens are obliged to learn about any doubts and about the implementation of any law, where it is up to CZK 150 billion. I hope that when we vote on the agenda, or respectively. I think that the whole public will also see who wants to discuss in front of citizens how 150 billion crowns are being dealt with, what are just words and what are actions, and we will see it when pressing the button on the junk and see it the whole Czech Republic, who really wants to make it about the problem, virtually. the issue was discussed so that citizens would have the opportunity to learn information. In this context, we have concluded that more than a year after the signing of the settlement agreements with the churches, there is now a necessary and appropriate moment when the government should provide the public with comprehensive unmistakable information on the process of central government bodies implementing the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. What we at Dawn are asking is that citizens have consistently maximum information on restitution. The ideal form that we would like to propose publicly here now would be a publicly accessible online list of restitution properties and things updated in real time, where any claim made would be made publicly available and legally required complete documentation. One portal, one place where all applications submitted would be clearly distributed, including the complete documentation required by law to dispel any concern that the media and the public should have ongoing information. That's what's missing so far. Why? Portals are made for much smaller things for much smaller money. This is where it's missing. I ask why such a matter is missing in the Czech Republic in the 21st century on such an important matter. If anyone here argues to protect any data, it must be said that if we spend tens of billions of assets, then the priority must be the right of the owners of this state, that is, citizens, to the maximum degree of information, that is, to whom and why they give or return. That would have prevented a lot of conjecture. I ask, in the name of the vast majority of Czech citizens, for a clear answer from the government, namely Prime Minister, Minister of Culture Herman and Minister of Agriculture Jurečka, whether they could immediately provide this service to the public. Here I have, for example, specific written suggestions from citizens, which have already been mentioned here, that some offices of the State Land Office in the South Bohemia Region do not request complete planning documentation in the context of the management process, as it follows from the law. These citizens believe that this is done on the basis of a methodical instruction written or oral. I ask this government to investigate urgently whether the law on property settlements with churches and religious societies is being implemented everywhere in a completely indisputable and strict manner in accordance with the law. [[9.40 hours]] As far as the law itself is concerned, it is true that when I look at the fact that compensation for the injustices caused by the Communist regime should also be paid to churches that did not exist before 1989, for example, the Apostolic Church with less than 5,000 members is to receive more than one billion crowns, namely 1 056 336 374 crowns, and the Lutheran Evangelical Church, which was established in 1995, is to receive nearly 114 million crowns, namely 113 828 334 crowns, so I must say that the law really seems unfair. And not only do these facts raise questions over the long term over the law from a public perspective. We in the Dawn movement, and I say again, we've called this extraordinary meeting here, it took 40 signatures, each political party of those two has other reasons, I suppose. The reasons aren't the same. These are our reasons, we don't want to politicize, we don't want to make a political show here, we are talking about these particular reasons that the public repeatedly tells me that they are interested in what is going on with 150 billion crowns to explain it so that they have no doubts. And then there's the clues. We are not opposed to returning what has been stolen, I would like to stress that. However, as with any restitution, the restituent must properly prove his claim. The fact that there are doubts, that citizens of the entire Republic are disgusted with restitution, will not be solved by waving our hands over the existing restitution law and saying: Kalousek and Nečas pushed it through and it can no longer be moved. And we're just not gonna talk about it anymore. We just can't do that to the public. It's 150 billion. Believe, my dear colleagues, that maximum transparency is the most important thing when it comes to restitution, both for supporters and for opponents. Neither the State nor the Church can afford a single doubt. Both sides. It is in the utmost interest not only of citizens but also of the churches themselves, so that all the issuance of property is as transparent as possible. Because any doubt harms them above all. No one will envy the churches returned stolen property. I certainly didn't. Of course, no one forgives the state and the churches if there is doubt over any property issued. The previous governments had state property smashed massively. There's not much to stand for today. All the more you should do is look and appreciate what's left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u9	Mr Mihola will now speak with priority rights and be prepared by the President-in-Office of Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u10	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the KDU-ČSL that we have come to the conclusion that the Institute of extraordinary meetings should, after all, be spared so that we do not have any really bizarre, bizarre meetings over various, perhaps next time, Krkonoše vouchers. We have a pretty good institute of interpelation here. I know some colleagues are missing a few weeks now, but in a few weeks, these colleagues will see him again. And I'm a little surprised it's like lightning out of the blue. If there were any specific arguments, specific situations, names, authorities. Here it was all said in such a general way and wrapped up, mainly leaning on such a kind of talk as citizens say, citizens are dissatisfied with something, pointing to something. But I didn't notice, and I listened carefully to how a press conference, which was a bit surprising, common, i.e. communists and the Úsvit movement, I read various articles published here by colleagues from Dawn or published on this topic on the web, and nowhere specific. Since we want to face this as openly as possible to dispel any concerns, I asked that we be here with all our ministers or representatives in the government. They're ready if there's any specific question, get out, answer or distract those concerns. But I'm more concerned that they have nothing to react properly to than just the general level. And now that I have listened carefully to President Okamura too, I am actually a little surprised if colleagues in Dawn are communicating with each other at all, because he has made a clear claim here: what has been stolen must be returned, and another colleague writes in an article When the church preaches water and drinks wine actually various claims that the church should and should not do what it needs and does not need to do without the returned property and financial compensation. I would be quite interested in how úsvit imagines the functioning of the church, whether it is for the separation of the state from the church or not and so on. I simply do not agree with the fact that anyone before this esteemed assembly should come forward without strong arguments with conjecture, unfounded claims, without figures and facts. The fact that paper can handle anything, and that if we just say it here, the others will have to hear it. So I firmly believe that we will proceed to this matter of extraordinary meeting here reasonably and rationally as it would deserve, i.e. to what has been shown here from the press conferences to the very performances of colleagues who have actually summoned this meeting. But, as I say, the KDU-ČSL ministers, both Mr Jurečka and Minister Herman, are prepared, so if any question really falls here, answer it in this debate before the programme is approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u11	Before I invite another Mr Laudát to the microphone, allow me to read two apologies. For today's meeting within 12 hours for health reasons, Mr Klaška apologizes and for today's meeting for family reasons, Mr Pavel Plzák apologizes. And now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a very conformal position, and I am glad that I am not a representative of the populist movement that is trying to collect votes take where to take regardless of the consequences and the future. We are the side that thinks about the future that thinks about it and thinks about how this country is going to end up with people in 10, 20, 50 years. What the previous speakers have shown here, except perhaps Prime Minister Mihola, is pure irresponsibility, populism, crap written by some senior and so on. I'm not hiding behind anything, we're not making any moves here, so the coalition is embarrassed. We will vote against the programme in principle. Why? I think this extraordinary meeting is completely unnecessary, inappropriate. All things, if you have any doubts, you can find out. There is a law on access to public data. The government has set up a commission, as you've heard here, or even a government committee. You could have turned to her. I think that only the petitioners to call this extraordinary meeting wanted to continue playing this card. Citizens already have other concerns than what you're presenting here. Of course, a law was written, and it was properly passed despite Mr.Faltýnek also pushing citizens: it was weird, it was fickle. I refer to his morning performance. I don't know where you want to stop. The worse you get the results in the government coalition, that's what you did here yesterday, so all the more you're gonna be distracting. I'm not surprised that some of the performances here sounded in the tone in which they sounded. If you're insulting yourself through the media in your own political party, why wouldn't you insult someone else? [[9.50 hours]] It's not true what the Minister of Finance said here. There was a commission here, still in the era of the Topolánek Government, chaired by the then Vice-President of the House of Kasal. It represented all political parties. There was even the current Prime Minister, there was Michal Hašek, there was Vítězslav Jandák from social democracy, behind KSČM Mr. Koníček and others. Please, I remember very well how they made demands for analysis, what amounts, how many assets, what, and how, if appropriate, disproportionate. Of all these analyses it was quite clear that the church should be entitled to substantially -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u13	Ambassador, I'm sorry, and I'm asking you to lower your voice so that your colleague can make his speech in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u14	Thank you very much. So... And you know it yourself. I hope that the work, conclusions and all the analyses that have been developed by the High School of Economics, Law Offices, universities and the like are available for this Commission and for the House. That's why I don't understand why this is being pushed back to the public, what's being pushed back. I think it is necessary to return the property to the church, to secure it for the future, so that it can perform its functions. And I am convinced that the model of the welfare state, in the social quotes ordained by Sobotkův's government, is not sustainable. You can't get money on him in time, and we're already wondering how this company, who's gonna help, who's gonna help those you're wasting money on. Education. Although the Catholic Church, for example, has only 2.6 percent of the grammar school, so worldly, wonder if, when skill testing was done, there were three of the first ten best grammar schools in this republic. It's not enough for you or this, so you want to undermine this segment of education, and recently the Minister of Education, to my unpleasant surprise, has brought it up. As for Mr Okamura, I'm sorry, I don't know, he's gonna be running around somewhere, it's not on the right, it's not on the left, it's some weird movement. It comes from Moravia, so only for the President of the Dawn movement: there are about four million thirty thousand citizens living there, and there are two million one. Speakingly, I would ask this question whether they will vote for you again, through Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay, unlike others, I will not skate here, the TOP 09 will be against the draft program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u15	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Radim Fiala's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't forgive myself for one point at the beginning. I am glad, although we are all populist and we are babbling that at least someone through Mr Laudát in this House can see the light at the end of the tunnel. At least someone did. Church restitutions. It is necessary, colleagues and colleagues, to admit that few things so burdened confidence in Czech politics and trust in the House as a restitution of church property. The method of preparation and quality of the legal standard, and above all, which regulates the restitution of church property, has been criticised by a number of experts. The Crown has put in place the way in which the final vote took place in the House. The voice of a fellow Member, who headed from here from the House to the execution of the sentence, was approved by a standard that arouses professional embarrassment and emotions to a large part of the public. Prior to the last parliamentary elections, the revision of this standard or the improvement of this standard were the subject of the pre-election promises of a number of political parties, including now two sides of government. These pre-election vows have gone out under the pressure of the smallest coalition partner KDU-ČSL. It was this political party that insisted that it would be in its political responsibility that the Department of Agriculture falls under the essential competence of the issue of restitution. Political hands then sent to hell ideas for inter-resurrection guarding the course of church restitutions. The ideas that some colleagues from the ČSSD came up with, who still have remains of political shame, did not push for any of this. KDU-ČSL is publishing church property in its political sense and I must say that it carries out the publishing of church property according to a factually problematic standard. In a number of cases, there can be free interpretation and thus the extradition of property that should not be given to the churches. Quite objectively, officials are under tremendous pressure from time. The deadline for implementation pushes them to proceed without unnecessary delays, and I put the word of unnecessary ones into key quotation marks. I consider two areas to be absolutely crucial. First of all, it is an area where property ownership is illustrated by an extract from the relevant library insert of the land book. If objectively it cannot be demonstrated, the beneficiary can testify that the agricultural property belonged to the original property registered by churches and religious societies and otherwise. The second area is to assess whether the property can or cannot be issued in terms of the need for publicly beneficial buildings, transport or technical infrastructure as defined in the approved territorial planning documentation. The Land Office has instructed that, in this case, a binding part of the zoning plan is considered to be the territorial planning documentation. This is contrary to the construction law, which says that the territorial planning documentation is made up of the principles of territorial development, the zoning plan and the regulatory plan. I stress once again that the officials responsible are under enormous pressure from the lack of time, and the above-mentioned carambola clearly has something to do with it. I will go back to today when Prime Minister Sobotka spoke here at the beginning of this meeting and said that he was opposed to voting against this bill. Yes, maybe at first reading or second reading, but in the final where it really was something, Prime Minister Sobotka wasn't here at the time, he left the O.R., so he cut the deal and allowed the law to pass. That is why I ask why some members of the government, instead of fulfilling their pre-election vows, hide behind vague words, intangible promises, and barren acts. Is it not in the interest of legal certainty and of all the parties involved that Prime Minister Sobotka either fulfill what he promised the citizens in the election campaign and thus achieve a change in church restitution, or admit his political failure and apologize to the people who voted for his party? Two. Can government officials here, please confirm that the procedure of the above-mentioned state organizations in issuing church property does not create a new room for judicial action on legality by the churches of the acquired property? And three. When, who, and for how much will deal with the overload of state organizations with requests for the return of property to churches, or if you do not intend to solve this problem, who gives our citizens a public guarantee that we will not run into a million-dollar, if not billion-dollar loss as a result of their haste, confusion and inattentiveness by overloading these officials? Thank you for your attention and thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u17	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Kováčik's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I would like to draw your attention at this point, although it has been clear from some of the previous speeches that you are not inclined to approve the programme so that you can at least think about this decision, or try to better evaluate the reasons which led us to call this meeting and where it is worth expressing ourselves, not only through priority rights, but also through all other Members and Members, on a subject that is undoubtedly hot. [[10.00 hours]] There are laws that we adopt here, run, implement, apply smoothly, serve citizens, regions, towns, municipalities, businesses, institutions successfully, without anyone noticing, because they were prepared so well that they didn't scrub anywhere, they don't have any catch to pick up on their, let's say, surroundings. However, there are laws that significantly influence the next course, in quotes, in the history of our society, and that remain here and there hanging behind confusion, for doubt, for imperfections that, whether by chance or on purpose, have come into these laws. And this so-called law. Church restitutions are among the others I was talking about. I would like to make it clear to everyone who commented on our request in the media as a purely political matter and even committed a prophecy about the future of the KSČM, themselves with the grass in their eye criticized a splinter that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia respected the right of citizens to religion or to be without religion. It also respects the right of citizens to exercise, implement, operate within churches and religious societies, and therefore our attitudes are not a priori directed against the churches themselves, and certainly not against the believing citizens of the Czech Republic, because society is colorful, everyone has rights, and we respect those rights very much in the light of historical experience. However, it is true that, in addition to these rights, there are also other rights - citizens' rights to information, the way in which their government behaves particularly on such sharply defined topics, and undoubtedly church restitution is a sharply defined topic for most citizens of the Czech Republic. I would like to mention that, on purpose, I did not sign up until later that the KSČM welcomes the helpfulness of government officials who are talking about what is being prepared at the moment to ensure that citizens, media and institutions are better informed than before. Perhaps if the government had acted similarly in preparing the response to our written interpelation in this matter, we did not have to initiate this extraordinary meeting, it would have been clearer. And I have the impression that it was our colleague Alena Nohavová, who intersected on this matter in recent weeks, and that answer certainly did not satisfy us. It was one of the reasons we called the meeting. We welcome the establishment or establishment by the government or the establishment of a monitoring committee or monitoring committee, and we want to believe that this is not according to the old proverb - if you want to sweep the matter under the carpet, create a committee on it. We would not like to see a similar end, and I think it is necessary for this commission to be more of a place where everything ends and where water closes over it, such as I said recently by a watchdog - not just us, but for the government to help us - the proper application of the law on religious restitution. We did not agree to this, we did not vote for it, it is a law that we respect like any law that has been adopted, but we require that it be applied not only correctly, that procedures be implemented precisely in accordance with this and other laws, but also that the population be informed. I'd like - and I'm sorry, I'll be a little more detailed than you used to - to sum up the situation that was here. This is all to move you, because in the end, I will say what motion for a resolution we have prepared for you, for a decision on the vote on the programme and, if necessary, a debate on the problem. When on 7 November the State Land Office published information on the large number of calls for the issue of agricultural real estate, which had been delivered to it as a person obliged by persons entitled pursuant to § 9 para. 1 of Law No. 428/2012 Sb., we said that this is information that is nice, but little specific. Because a large number, even the number of challenges, is not what would inform citizens about the substance of the matter - what it is, what it is, how the conditions laid down by this law are met for the application of the challenge, virtually. at all to negotiate that it might be issued. Moreover, like most laws, this law - and me. Therefore, we also did not support it - it is very unclear because of its construction, it is difficult to control, it also threatens to damage the state from its imperfect application. And mine. That's why I'm talking about the guard dog, not just the political parties, but especially the government monitoring committee. Moreover, there have already been some confusion on the part of the churches. For example, let us remember the media so well presented requirements for the issue of land in the territory of Prague Castle and some orders that threaten to break the border in 1948. Moreover, the vast majority of citizens - and here I will do a number - reject the law and, according to various surveys linked together, averaged, only about ten percent of the population considers it right and fair. A fresh memory - parliamentary political parties voted against church restitutions: Czech Social Democratic Party, YES, KSČM, Dawn of Direct Democracy, which sums up more than the constitutional majority in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And all these sides - I'm not saying that everyone, but I'm going to sum up, generalize and sound across these sides. And some have even made concrete proposals - to declare a moratorium on the issue of property with regard to excesses that have emerged in challenges and are discussed by the public by experts, to revise the law, which has been accompanied from the very beginning by unstandardities and uncertainties. And to be more specific, for example, the chairman of social democracy has called for church representatives - truth, I would say almost in vain or ineffectively or inefficiently - to renegotiate this law. I think that not only a solution of this type but also regular information to the Chamber of Deputies is what we want. And I am glad that at least the committee will be working on this subject, but we demand that regular information be provided at each meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. There was also talk about the abuse of the Institute of Emergency Meetings. The KSČM, if my long memory reaches, did not touch the call of an extraordinary meeting even at a time when it itself had enough Members and Members. So no abuse. We are doing this for the first time in the foreseeable history, and I would like to thank all colleagues and colleagues in the Úsvit movement, who have understood that this meeting needs to be convened, that this topic is so hot, and that they have made signatures under the list of our demands. [[10.10 hours]] I see the abuse of the Institute of Emergency Meetings in a slightly different position. It wasn't so long ago that we had an emergency meeting here, because someone forgot to load a proposal to shorten the deadline to one of the tax laws. The meeting was called promptly and you noticed that we didn't even page, came to the meeting, voted, and we didn't say that it was being abused when someone was having a bad sleep or was late and forgot to read something that an emergency meeting had to be called immediately. I think that the subject of that time and this is somewhat incomparable, and I am opposed to the allegations of abuse. I think that the Ministry of Culture, in particular, in view of all the demands that are, and all the problems that arise from this, should - or could, can only recommend, in the context of the motion for a resolution, I will then introduce you more closely. But it certainly needs to take steps to evaluate the implementation of the law, which will enable the government to conduct negotiations on the revision of the law, which would lead to some meaningful end, but which will also enable the general public to monitor the demands of the churches. It is therefore recommended that - and this is where the Ministry of Culture cannot circumvent - this Ministry should set up a central public record of all calls for all mandatory persons, whether in or outside the Ministry of Culture. For example Forests of the Czech Republic, National Gallery and so on. Secondly, it ensured a clear visualization of the immovable property required by the churches on the web. Thirdly, it ensured an assessment of the risks arising from the issuance of the required assets. Fourthly, it set up a working group to evaluate the demands of churches and order, including in the view of the plenary of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the word "righteous" for the designation of compensation. After all, fifth - and I would almost say that this should be the first, that it is the most important - will allow citizens to be alerted to excesses by setting up a dedicated website. The order that should be brought into this process should, in particular, lead through the centralisation of the records of all claims of churches and orders against any mandatory persons, and those records should be kept with the Ministry of Culture, for which the Government's decision to give the appropriate instruction should be given, and those records should be kept by the Ministry of Culture's own forces. Set up a web page on which they will be displayed and described and graphically displayed in the maps, and on this page allow the public to comment on the demands raised in view of the state's lack of evidence, to allow citizens and local authorities to easily notify the possible existence or absence of documents preventing transfers of property, and to provide the processing of this site to a private entity with a sublime public contract and to use the cooperation with the Czech Office of the Agricultural and Cadastral and State Land Office. And after all, I know that maybe a little too much detail, but the subject is so serious that it requires that the third or the next step should be to set up an expert working group of historians and legislative experts, which will be, and this is important, to regularly and continuously evaluate the demands of churches and order. And I add: of course, given that the topic is constantly in the focus of the attention of citizens, so also in a very regular rhythm to come to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with information about the Government's progress and the steps that have been taken in the current period and which are preparing and preparing. As to the fact that we have been invited to give at least a specific example, I have one particular example here, and I am asking for some patience. But before I give you this example, let me introduce you to what we would suggest in the case - sorry, what we will propose if you decide, colleagues and colleagues, to allow us all to have a more detailed discussion by approving the programme. Thus, a draft resolution which is very simple. The Chamber of Deputies should take note of the Government's previous practice in implementing Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to (a) has published a list of compulsory persons addressed pursuant to the law and has ensured that the other obliged persons referred to in Section 4 will also act only with due care of the proper economic operator; (b) specify to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic how many estate agreements have been concluded; (b) publish the number of applications rejected, including the percentage of the area concerned; (d) publish how many administrative procedures have been initiated; (b) publish the number of duplicate or multiple calls made by authorised persons; (f) published how much the State Land Office had to pay for the missing geometrical plans; (g) specify the proportion of the work carried out by the Office of State representation in property matters; (h) ensure that obliged persons respect the law on free access to information. Why do I say that? Because despite what was in the media, what was in the reactions of some of you and other representatives, this is not about any policy that we would like to smash out of it. This isn't about populism. These are absolutely specific requirements and absolutely specific things that we want in the application of this law, which we did not agree with, and we do not agree further, which we did not support, but which we respect, so that there is order in the application of this law. And now for that particular example. I'm begging for a little more patience. This is the implementation under Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies. Here we have heard many general comments, whether legal, whether philosophical, whether political. Now the impact on a particular community and its citizens. It is a village Hradištěko in the district of Prague-west, which is beautiful and active. Maybe she was, 'cause she's pretty suffocated right now. First of all, let me quote from an article by the mayor of Hradištěko, published in the rapporteur of this municipality. What I'm about to read to you is pretty awful. It's just not possible to let this thing go. Now let me quote. "The castle experienced two periods throughout its history when its existence was threatened. The first sad time was between 1942 and 1945, when citizens had to leave our community. We are experiencing the second difficult period now. From the decision of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, the municipality was forced to hand over a significant part of its property to the Royal Canonie of Premonstrates in Strahov, which fundamentally threatens its further functioning and development. During the Nazi occupation in addition to the eviction of the population, a military training ground of SS weapons was created in the framework of Germanisation of the Czech nation and even a concentration camp was built here in 1943. It was a very difficult and sad time, but the village survived, and after the end of World War II it began to develop slowly and quickly. And just in the period of the greatest development and expansion, we were struck by a severe blow, which is a very cruel threat to the present and future of Hradištěk." For almost 20 years, the Royal Canonie of Premonstratensians in Strahov has had litigation with the municipality on the determination of ownership to property. There were three lawsuits. The first is over when he was repeatedly brought to the Supreme Court and to the Constitutional Court and the result was that the property of which the dispute was held was rewritten to the Cadastral Office for the Prague-West to the Royal Canonie of Premonstratensians. It was a shock for the municipality and another shock came when the municipality found that the publication of that law on religious restitution did not resolve or take into account the litigation on the issue of property. They were just forgotten in the law. So these lawsuits go on and on, according to their decision, they issue property to which church societies either are not entitled under the law on church restitutions, or for which they will receive financial compensation under this law. [[10.20 hours]] So in this particular case, they actually get it twice. After all, pending the complete settlement of the related litigations, no one can be known for the actual and specific right to issue the assets, and the same law has already laid down the amount paid as a flat-rate financial compensation for the assets issued. And that it is only for this municipality a really significant part of the property and its real liquidation, the overview of the property issued shows: On 30 April 2014, following the invitation of the Royal Canonie of Premonstrates, the municipality had to hand over the castle building with its registered office and a building with its registered office and five municipal apartments. The Municipal Office moved to the Breeder's Union building and rented the object by the playground, where the library was moved and subsequently the primary school administrator. Subsequently, the municipality still has to issue the grounds under the gym with adjoining tennis courts, construction land under the firehouse, which should be demolished within six years, construction land under the nursery school, land gardens including a pond area of about 3 ha including guarding, land where the sheephouse building used to be - the present parking lot and the planned future natural centre of the village, the building of šejchar including the plot and part of the garden of the primary school. The action, and therefore the judgment, contains a total of 90 items, and I reiterate that for the issue of land, i.e. under kindergarten, gymnasium and former ewes, which were built up or necessary for the use of the municipalities, or used in the general interest, no church had pursuant to Section 8 (1) of the Law. 1 Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies entitled. But the village was affected in other ways. In 2010, a project for greening the municipality was developed and then the municipality received a grant of 6.5 million. Kč. However, it had to be blocked for this purpose for two years because the Constitutional Court's decision was awaited and it simply could not invest on foreign land. Finally, it had to repay the unused grant in 2013, in October, without replacing the municipality with the resources spent on the project, not to mention the costs of legal representation. The subject matter of the second dispute with the plaintiff, the Royal Canon of Premonstratensians, is the amount of rent for the use of the chateau and post office and the use of all the above mentioned land for three years retroactively, namely 2.5 million. Kč. Following the appeal of the municipality and the examination of the amount of the rent by judicial experts, the price of the rent granted by the court decreased to 1.5 million. However, the Royal Canonie of Premonstratensians insists on its own, and so the dispute continues. Any attempts to conclude an agreement between participants have always ended in failure, as the representatives of the canonies have always come up with other objections and offers that have denied the previous ones. Here is interesting, for example, that the Royal Canonie of Premonstratensians specifically offered on behalf of Mgr Petros Alexandridis through the media rent land under kindergarten for a thousand crowns a year and reported other untruths. Mgr Petros Alexandridis is the director of the canonie central office, so he should only tell the truth. The last dispute concerns the issue of land which the municipality received from the Czech Land Fund for its further development. It is an area of 5.2 ha and the dispute is not yet concluded. Currently the village does not own in its centre except for school and school property, the building of a kindergarten which is a building on a foreign site, the building of a gymnasium, which is also a building on a foreign plot, and the building of a health centre absolutely nothing. The development of the municipality is completely halted in this regard. But I will generally return to financial compensation. The fact that it is not clear at all what property the financial compensation is issued for must be assumed that the property which will also be physically transferred will be replaced in this way, i.e. it will in fact be restitution twice, or replacement of the property for which the right was not acquired at all. Or even substantial amounts of money can be paid without any original physical claim. And I also recall the request of the Royal Canonie of Premonstratensians for payment of lost rent - and it will probably not be unique. Nor must we forget that the church has been fully funded by the state, so it has not missed anything according to this. Since the amendment of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies is subject, according to its Section 1, to mitigate property injustices, we must not allow new injustices to be created under the same law, but now the injustices are irreparable, colleagues and colleagues! Moreover, the law provides for an unequal position between churches and religious societies on the one hand and entitled persons under other restitution laws on the other. Compared to other entitled persons under restitution laws, churches and religious societies are preferred in a way that is quite extremely out of line with the concept of equality of law subjects in a democratic society. The high position of churches and religious societies among other authorized persons has no support in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I would like to conclude by recalling the Government's observations issued in defence of the law in addressing constitutional complaints against that law. The government quotes the founding of Constitutional Court No. Pl. ÚS 9/07 and, in particular, that in the settlement of "the legislator must respect the principles arising from Article 11 of the Charter and Article 1 of the Additional Protocol to the Convention, according to which the amount of compensation fixed may not be in proportion to the value of the assets compensated by the legislator's favour, but must reflect the principle of proportionality '. [[respectively. Fair balance]] Even this principle required by the Constitutional Court itself is violated in the case of the municipality of Hradištěko, but it is certainly also violated in the case of the provision of such a high flat-rate compensation for the volume of the assets not issued. Not to mention the determination of the value of the property based on current values. In so doing, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are enforceable in accordance with Article 89 (2) of the Constitutional Court. 2 Constitution of the Czech Republic binding on all institutions and all persons. It is an objective fact that, in so many conflicting decisions of the Constitutional Court, the failure of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to solve this problem for 20 years, the failure of the Government and the Parliament of the Czech Republic to deal with the signing of the property settlement agreement between the State and the churches, there has been fatal damage not only to this community, but also to several dozens of other municipalities in our country. It can be said that the state has once again clearly erred and, once again, its mistakes are clearly paid by citizens who have not only done nothing but live on their taxes. It's a shame. I think that this does not contribute to the credibility of this state and of this honourable House, and for this reason too, there needs to be constant control, as we demand in the motion for a resolution, as we have also talked about it in the interests of those citizens who have doubts and wish to exercise their control. I will now allow myself, and now very briefly, to ask for the approval of the programme, also because we propose a point on the proposal for amendments to the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, for one simple reason. So the basic reason is that the MP has the right to be on the committee, and that b) under this reason is that... Vice-President Babiš here said he had until September. According to our court, a number of things that are being discussed here at the 12th meeting had ample time until September or October, and yet they had to be discussed now. [[10.30 hours]] But by delaying this point by September, the government coalition in committees will have a significant advantage. All three new Members are from opposition parties, and there is also a need to balance the balance between the forces determined by the elections within not only the Chamber of Deputies but also within the various committees. That is why we insist that this point be discussed now, and not until September, because the committees are running now. Yesterday was the committee, the day before yesterday. There will certainly be one tomorrow or next week some committee will certainly run and three members from the opposition will not have the right to participate, and the opposition will therefore be weakened. Of course, this has to do with the last point, and these are changes in the seating order. Now, at this point, I would like to say once again that if we discuss this point today in the context of a proper meeting, we will allow other Members who do not have the right to express themselves, so we will also save a lot of work for the future and raise the credibility of this honourable assembly of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your patience and for the attention you have listened to me with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u19	Now please get to the microphone of Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u20	Good morning, Madam President, dear colleagues. Allow me to respond briefly to some of the things that have been said here. First of all, as Minister of Agriculture, I must say... [[The minister's silence is pointing to the right side of the hall with his hand.]] I must say that I regret that there has been no room if we really want to have a factual discussion on this issue. There is no room for any of you, gentlemen of the clubs who have asked to convene this meeting, or any of the Members of this Chamber of Deputies, so none of you, as Minister of Agriculture, will turn to me with any doubt in this case, and today you are asking for a meeting. Discussing these things - I can do it if I speak further - is very complicated in this plenary. If you don't know the facts in detail, we're not going to explain the whole process, so it's just not possible to have a real discussion here. I would very much like and offer it quite openly when you convene, gentlemen of the chairmen, perhaps a joint meeting of your clubs, I will personally come, invite the highest management of the State Land Office and the Forests of the Czech Republic and describe the whole process in detail so that you have no doubt that anything goes beyond the law. We will be happy to answer specific cases that you will have doubts about. I am also offering this to the other remaining members of this House, because this is how specific discussions are to be held. If we have a problem, we have some doubts, so please, first let us solve this at this level and then let us move it to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. There was an interesting thought that really caught my eye. If we are leaning on the fact that something has been approved here, which was contrary to the will of most Czech citizens or at odds, I will say, with opinion polls, I ask myself internally whether it is any new way that we want to apply to Czech politics, that anything that this Chamber of Deputies will approve will be subject to what citizens want in the poll. I wonder how the vote on the amount of taxes of natural and legal persons or, for example, how many weeks of leave citizens are supposed to have in the Czech Republic, we could find a lot of cases or, for example, the death penalty. On the contrary, I think that there are moments, and history has shown that a responsible quality politician should have such a vision that, in some cases, he will not succumb to the current opinion of most society, and, on the contrary, he will be able to enforce the opinion that he believes as a politician that he is long-term beneficial to society. Because if that were the case, there wouldn't be a World War II at least. As for the specific things that have been said here, if any of the members of the Úsvit movement feel that the law has been exceeded somewhere, that some methodology is contrary to the law, I will ask immediately if you feel that we are violating the law that something is ever unlawfully issued, so I think that if you know that, first of all, you should immediately take steps to file a criminal report, because this is an obligation for a proper citizen to do and address specific authorities. I didn't know that would happen. And if President Kováčik here was talking about the case in Hradištek, that is, of course, a very complicated case. But it is precisely that you have put this in the context of the so-called church restitution process, so he is the fundamental problem here that, in this particular case, the premonstrates' action was carried out before the effect of this law, and therefore this law and methodology currently being used and applied in issuing this property are simply not applicable to this case. These are the very things that I would like to explain to you at, say, the internal forum, at the meetings of the MPs, to find out and not to put and mix things together that aren't going well enough to mix, and not to manipulate public opinion, because I think it's misleading then. So I, too, think it would be a good idea to go to the parliamentary clubs first, so that we don't beat up empty straw here at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u21	Mr. Faltýnek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would react very briefly mainly to the performance of my colleague Tomio Okamura. When we were talking about calling this meeting recently, I asked him to put it on the table in the debate that is going on - and it shows that it doesn't really matter whether the program is approved or not, because those particular things are on the table with priority rights, and the issues of church restitution are definitely very important and interested in the public - so I asked him to put specific things on the table, specific cases documented, whether it be possible to talk about these specific things. We have heard the Prime Minister's speech, who has proposed a specific procedure on this matter, and I would like to ask Mr President and Mr Okamura, when he is present in the Chamber, to listen carefully to the performances of the various speakers, because in Mr Babiš's speech, it was clear that we wanted to discuss this subject, but at a proper meeting, ready, with concrete evidence from you. So I'm just asking you to listen to each other and, if possible, respect each other a little. I will not respond to the remarks, through Mr President, Mr Laudát, because most of the time I do not understand what he is actually saying, but it is probably my fault, so I am really sorry about this. [[Light laughter in the hall]] But allow me to conclude one technical point. We are talking here about the populist performances of some colleagues. We were not in the previous Chamber of Deputies, which agreed with the voice of one criminal, Mr Laudát, through Madam President, this law. And I would just like to remind you that the current President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Radim Fiala, then a member of the ODS, and specifically 14. 7. 2012 voted in favour of this law at third reading. On the other hand, it is true that we are objective that when the law returned to the Senate, my colleague Radim Fiala, my longtime friend from Prostějov, was no longer a member of the ODS and voted against 8 November 2012. So just enough to have accurate information when someone's talking about populism and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u23	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I think I'm transmitting on a similar frequency because my colleagues brought me a vote, so I'd say to Mr. Tomio Okamur, at least - how much? - for about five or six months, he had a criminal there because what President Faltýnek says is absolutely true. 41st meeting of the 158th vote on 14 July 2012 zero zero zero two, because they were duels. And I'll come back, I'll read the times. ODS - Radim Fiala - YES. 47th meeting of the 156th vote on 8 November 2012 - zero zero 32, 32 minutes after midnight, Mr Fiala was already among the unattached Members, similar to Kristýna Kočí, Karolína Peake, Jiří Paroubek and others, Pavel Bém surprisingly, because at that time he was partially excommunicated from the ODS - and there he already voted NO. So for a few months, he was also the criminal he had sent. [[10.40 hours]] As for the Prime Minister being attacked here, I have to defend him objectively. Because at the time as an MP, and I think that the club chairman, or was not the club chairman, however the party chairman, did everything possible and impossible to prevent the adoption of this law. Out of social democracy, in those two key votes, in addition to the absences, everyone voted against the restitution law. So when you accuse him of something in terms of parliamentary procedures, the Senate returned the law, so he did everything possible and impossible. On this point, on the contrary, I have to stand up for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u25	Mr Okamura is another Member of the Okamura who has applied for priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seemed to me that the previous speakers who mentioned what I said here a moment ago either did not listen or maybe they were on the phone. There's apples mixed with pears, there's goats, there's carts. All I'm saying is that most citizens don't know for sure about the issues of church restitution, and they want information to disprove doubt. I didn't ask for anything else here. I didn't question anything here or say anything else. The reasons for the Dawn movement are these, so I don't know why we're talking about any specific incentives, that's just as well said here, and very specific. Shall I read that speech again? That the Dawn movement is a movement of direct democracy and that most citizens are telling us that they would like complete information that is not here, I say again. For example, there's not a complete portal here to my surprise where everyone can track everything down. I repeated this reason again. Please do not push the Dawn movement for other reasons that you are making up here, and you are trying to degenerate us on this issue, because we have no other reason than to respond to the public's call, so that we have sufficient information so that we do not have to talk about this in the future, so that it is completely resolved. I'd like us to start by saying this to each other, and please forgive ourselves for some personal invectives that are completely made up. I know they're gonna cut it off on TV so it looks like Okamura might say it, but it's not like that. My speech is in the stew, and that's all I've ever said. But, of course, if I say what the citizens are also telling us... Then there was the fact that there were no specific questions. I do not want to read my speech again, but I have asked specific questions here, how can we resolve the matter in such a way that, as far as the Dawn movement is concerned, the whole thing is resolved. For us, the main topic we have prepared in the autumn is the direct election and recallability of the mayors, we are interested in the referendum law, the substantive criminal responsibility of politicians, etc. These are our bearing topics of change to a direct democracy. I was a little surprised by the Minister Jurečka, who spoke here about how it would turn out if politicians made decisions based on what most citizens wished for. So that's a very remarkable sentence that shouldn't fit in. I'm completely shocked. Perhaps this shows how the Minister thinks. On the contrary, we, the Dawn of Direct Democracy, would like to reflect the majority will of citizens. You named the taxes. So I can give you an example of where the majority decides to raise taxes, and it has to go through a referendum. It's Switzerland. If we are to choose Switzerland or, forgive me, the way in which the Czech Republic is managed, which has also been presented by governments with KDU-ČSL participation, I will certainly choose Switzerland, where citizens must agree to any tax increases in the referendum, for example. They also voted on it now that VAT has increased to 8 percent, you know that. It's different here. Here, governments will irresponsiblely raise taxes, ask no one, after 20 years of stolen land - and it's done! Next. You said they could vote on a few weeks' vacation. Yes, I'll give you a country where an extra week of vacation has been decided in the referendum. Yes, it was Switzerland, I think last year. What did the citizens decide? You think they approved an extra week's vacation? We haven't, Minister. You might know that. They did not approve this precisely because after the discussion they realized that it was not economically beneficial. Let us not make fools of citizens, we have examples from the world, virtually. from relatively close countries where I would like to move our Republic, such as Switzerland, Liechtenstein and other countries. It does not apply at all that citizens fall for populist topics and vote for something inadequate. It wouldn't hurt us to vote on tax increases either. I am not just talking about the current government, but about any government, in order to get politicians to assume budgetary responsibility. The death penalty you mentioned is humor. Because I think it even contradicts the Czech Constitution and the fundamental charter of rights and freedoms. So I don't know what you were talking about. You're giving examples here, like we're pulling rabbits out of a hat, but if I take all these examples one by one, we're talking about something else. On the contrary, in those highly democratic countries that are living standards in many ahead of us, these mechanisms work. I don't know if you want to drag us east or west. Now, about the arguments. The citizens wrote to me and I also looked into this as regards, for example, the State Land Office, why the number of employees was reduced in the last quarter of 2013. Yes, in terms of cutting spending, I know the argument is here, but it was at a time when the law on church restitution had already been applied and, on the contrary, it was known that there would be a considerable increase in labour at the State Land Office. On the contrary, at the beginning of the period when the issue was to be addressed, the number of employees was reduced. World, wonder, in May 2014, which is two months ago, it was decided, that is, after a few months, to recruit 130 new workers, on the contrary, to strengthen the agenda at the State Land Office. That's a very interesting procedure. At a time when the law already applies and we know that there will be pressure and that the Czech Republic can get into time distress, there will actually be a reduction, after a few months there will be an increase, but be careful! - in May 2014, it will decide to recruit 130 workers who need to be retrained. But we all know that the deadline for the calls to be made was July 2nd. Yes, now, this month. I mean, first the workers come down here, then they pick themselves up, and then in a month, he's supposed to make a decision. Or two. I consider this a highly unsystemic step and a highly unthinkable one. And the result is what? Time distress. Time distress begets, doesn't it? Of course, when you get into tens of billions of time distress, it can produce certain inaccuracies, but it only breeds delays. And there are delays. Because as we all know, 17. 7. which is a few days ago, it was decided only by 8 percent of the total number of calls submitted - I repeat: only 8% of the total number of calls submitted - and this concerned only 4.5 percent of the total number of real estates concerned. Now we're in a huge time crisis, and we're going to find some concrete clues. Therefore, the Úsvit movement - again I say, quite factually, let us not make it a policy, I speak for the Úsvit movement - would like this situation because it is tens of billions, so we think it was an emergency meeting and overall by up to 150 billion, but I repeat that this is a solution. [[10.50 hours]] To give a concrete example that the Dawn movement already knew about the issue - because not to fall from a speaker behind me the argument "what you did for it." We did, folks. Our Member Karel Fiedler, together with the other Members, submitted an amendment to Act No.428/2012 and we proposed to move forward - and to be fair, along with those ČSSD Members who want to follow their agenda, but we have our reasons - our Member Karel Fiedler co-submitted the amendment to the Act, which was discussed here the other day, when we proposed to postpone the deadline by which these requests should be decided for six months. This would create a comfortable state, we could get out of time distress and we could - I mean the Czech state or the competent authorities - decide on these requests and we could discuss it here. It would be time to make a portal or some more regular information for the public to dispel various doubts. Of course, how did this novel turn out? As we know, the accelerated discussion of this amendment, which we have proposed precisely because of the enormous time pressure and the large volume of assets, has been vetoed by ODS and TOP 09 MPs. That way, this amendment will be discussed in standard mode and we've actually gotten past the deadline. I'm just gonna say, and I'm stressing again, that this place is no longer underway at Dawn. We have the reasons for what I said in the opening speech. There are no other reasons. This means that we assure the public that we are overseeing this - and the Úsvit movement is to oversee the ambition to ensure that laws are respected in the Czech Republic. We see there are no more deadlines. The deadline's over. So that is our reason to appeal strongly to the House, because, after the amendment has not been approved to us, it is really serious to deal with this, so that we not only respect the terms, that the law should be followed, so that the public can believe it, so that the churches also know that it will not be questioned backwards - that is important to stress - so it is good for both sides. In this way, we will definitely resolve the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u27	I ask now for Mr Mihola's microphone and for Mr Kováčik to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. By your means, I wanted to respond first to President Kováčik, but now I would like to respond first to President Okamura, at least briefly. I think either he didn't understand what Minister Jurečka meant, or rather, he doesn't understand. Anyway, I think we all know very well that it matters very much in public opinion polling how the question is asked. According to this, the result may also be. And I am sure for Minister Jurečka that he is in very close contact with the citizens, he is discussing, no debate is resisting, even now with you, as he has already done. So I'm sure it's pretty outrageous to suspect that he wouldn't care what the citizens think. Otherwise, I am also convinced and add to the fact that there are things that really cannot be voted on just in the street's opinion, often momentary, or poorly asked questions, especially in such serious matters as the question of justice, truth, life and so on. Otherwise, I'm quite flattered by the comparison with Switzerland. I would really like to believe that the maturity of democracy in our country a quarter of a century after the revolution is such that we can fully compare ourselves with Switzerland, but I don't really believe it at all. It was during the referendums - I know how it was in Switzerland and it happens quite often - I always wondered how it would turn out with us, and I was a little worried.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u29	My colleague, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask the other colleagues to keep their voices down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u30	And I would like to ask President Kováčik, when we are dealing with such a sensitive one more time - through you, Madam President - issues such as the question of religious restitution, there really needs to be a very precise expression here. If I've heard it well, and I've tried to listen really well, so to speak for the others here - I don't know exactly who put you on your behalf for others - like that they're Social Democrats and others and others against restitutions, in general, I don't want to believe that for a moment. Just that some of the parties in the Chamber of Deputies here are opposed to correcting the injustices of the past. We simplify the word restitution as the complexity of the problem into one word, but when we do, we should be precise. And I was hoping that today the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia was a little further away and that it distanced itself from what had happened, and even she felt that the injustices of the past needed to be corrected. I guess that's not quite the case. And, you know, like so many other things, I think that a quarter of a century after the Velvet Revolution, it could have all been resolved a long time ago and it could have been solved by better models. This, in turn, is in the direction of critics of the model that was adopted here during the previous government and which KDU-ČSL was not, as one of the Dawn colleagues mistakenly remarked here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u31	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Kováčik's microphone. Please prepare Minister Jurečka and Mr Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. On Margo's comments from my colleague, the President of the KDU-ČSL, allow me a small bonmot, of course through you. The fact is that folks and communists have worked on many things in the long run. After all, there are still municipalities, and there are not enough of them where we rule together, in quotation marks, and where we have to deal with citizens' problems today and daily, and where we listen together to the problems where we listen together to the street, as it has been disrespectfully said, or rather disrespectfully said. It really is, and now the bonmot that we had a better way with each other a long time ago in the National Front, but even now there are things that we can agree on. If we listen well to each other, then it is not possible for us to misinterpret each other. So I would like to say once again the sentence in which, in the opinion of my colleague, I speak for the others. Parliamentary political parties of ČSSD, YES, Dawn, KSČM, which include more than the constitutional majority, and so on, voted against church restitutions. etc. They did. So now I will allow myself, if you will, the whole list, when and who has spoken out against church restitutions from individual political parties - we may have to be here for two more weeks, and I certainly couldn't speak for so long, so I will spare you this, but if you want specific situations, when and who party representatives have done so, they can certainly be found in publicly available sources, such as the Steno records of the Chamber of Deputies or in the media. If you want, I'll let you find them in particular throughout the list. That's one thing. Second thing. I want to say that the example with Hradištek, whose interpretation you somewhat simplified, I also said exactly where it was simply duplicate publishing, where the law did not think of such cases, and that is why it is wrong, I did not say that something had already started to happen before the effectiveness of this law, even though it is possible, because it was known in the long term that such a law was being prepared and that it would be followed in some similar way. But you asked for that particular example, so I took Hradištko as a specific example, where the law should simply be different, where the law falls hard, falls unjustly and unfairly hard. Mr Jurečka, Minister of Agriculture - again through you, Madam President. That's easy. If the answers to the written interpelations, or the answers to oral interpelations, are so vague, so nothing-speaking, so sweeping things under the carpet, so incomplete, just so unacceptable, then we'll have to look for other tools, how to get public discussion of one or the other. [[11.00 hours]] I said here again that it is not from clean water, or from one clear water, that it is after we have failed with one of the written interventions in this fundamental law or in this fundamental problem. I also said here at the beginning that there are laws going on without anyone noticing that far from all laws require this attention. If we take it from my field as well as the Minister, the Minister of Real and Shadow, he was adopted here several years ago, successfully amended several times and successfully runs with a significant contribution to the civil community, which concerns the law on winery and wine-growing. I didn't hear anyone complaining or there were any significant comments about the fact that someone was severely harmed or greatly improved, that they simply didn't treat citizens as equals. I'm talking about the community that's involved. But that's a fairly wide community. And the result for citizens is that they need not be afraid to buy Moravian and Czech wine and consume it. If that's the case, well, we're not gonna be bothering each other here by offering topics that, according to our court, are very topical in the civil public. And here's another question for Minister Jurečka: Why do the answers to these questions or problems have to be heard or seen, maybe I misunderstood it, but that's how I understood it, so he'll tell the club presidents anything we need to know. However, we want the citizens' public to be informed as fully as possible on this sensitive subject, which is truly sensitive to the public. Just the right to free access to information is most appropriate here. Or, I'm asking, so far it's just rhetorical: Is there something to hide? That we don't want to give it to the citizens. And finally, to the street. It may have upset me a bit, I dare say that I consider it to be stately, not populist, to listen to the legitimate and fair demands and views of citizens, the desires and wishes of citizens, and also to meet them. After all, that's why we're here, and we don't have to be blamed for going in populistly, whistling the streets. That's not true. A politician is a politician. It could be anyone, or almost anyone. There aren't enough statesmen. And a statesman can be seen, among other things, by how he can listen to and how he can, and now I underline legitimate and fair demands and desire to meet in the interests of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u33	Thank you and now please to the microphone of Minister Jurečka. And please prepare Mr Schwarzenberg. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u34	Thank you, Madam President. In order to be clearly understood and to ensure that the President of the Dawn Assembly, by your means, Madam President, understands exactly what I said, because he obviously did not understand it, he was not paying attention - and now he is also not paying attention. [[The President of the Úsvit movement, Mr Okamura, deals with something with a colleague in his desk and does not pay attention to the Minister's speech. A moment of silence and waiting before he turns his attention to the speaker at the microphone.]] Thank you. I was talking about there are some cases where politicians should be able to make a different decision than most people think at the time, for example, through opinion polls. That's exactly what I said, look at the tape screen, and don't twist those words into a different plane. I would ask very much that we keep the debate at a certain level. I have offered the possibility of a debate at the meetings of the MPs not because there is nothing to hide here, but to get information, background, arguments before we start debating it at the plenary of this Chamber of Deputies, because the debate is then very difficult. I showed this in a particular example of Hradištka, when you connected it here in relation to the process of religious restitution under Act 428, and that is precisely the case where this is not the case. That's why I tried to do this. I have no problem publishing anything transparently, anything to talk about and providing that information. So let's really understand each other exactly and clearly. And then I want to say no to the fact that perhaps officials in the SAO or in the Forests of the Czech Republic were under any pressure. On the contrary, I appeal to them and tell them, if there is any doubt that anything is not clear, legally unambiguous, then property cannot surrender and it will end in a court decision. He is entitled to make decisions on this matter. That's the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u35	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Schwarzenberg's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u36	Madam President, honourable Members, when you listen to this debate, it seems that many of the past have not been learned. An old Czech proverb says: The Keeper is a worse thief. And now we're having a big fight here about whether or not we have what was stolen 70 years ago, too. Therefore, the restitution law, or what we have stolen, is being questioned, we would like to keep it and exploit it for the benefit of our parties, our private business, etc. Like any human act, it is possible that there was a meadow or land that could not actually be included in that law. Yes, I can imagine, because no office works flawlessly. However, we could, on the other hand, convene a special House meeting here to stretch the restitution process, because of the leaking of the land that was sold and used cheerfully, although it was church. If we had a whole infinitely long process, where the authorities concerned were afraid that policies would be affected, this process would be long, if we had asked for a special meeting here, I would have imagined the roar that this would create. It's very sad. There have been several beautiful arguments here about the will of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, I grew up in the 20th century. And all the dictators, starting with Benit Mussolini through Adolf Hitler to our countrymen, appealed to the will of the people in the greatest injustice. If we had brought the term "will of the people" back into our right, we would have been executed again on the daily agenda. Most are still in favour of the introduction of the death penalty. To the great pleasure of all voters, we could, for sure, introduce no longer concentration camps for Žid, since they are no longer here, but we would probably introduce concentration centres for darker-skinned citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is something very sensitive and very holy. As long as we violate it under the supposed will of the people that each political party interprets in its own way, it is indeed on a straight path to hell. I warn against this notion. I remember, even the oldest among us will remember how the will of the people to execute Milada Horáková and others was signed. Please remember. Don't argue with the will of the people. And it's remarkable that two parties joined together today in the debate. I quite understand that the Communist Party is against restitution. She made the grand theft of the 20th century, introduced and enforced 70 years ago. But what's interesting is that she's been joined by a party that hates foreigners, ultranationalism, etc. According to traditional terms, but today nothing corresponds to the truth, it would rather correspond to fascist right-wing fantasies. But now, in the fight against the churches, in the fight against restitution, these parties have joined together, as in admiration for the statesman who has managed to occupy a piece of the neighboring country in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, our political culture is truly remarkable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u37	I ask now for Mr Kováčik's microphone and for Minister Herman to prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u38	The keeper is worse than the thief. What was stolen must be returned. I didn't mean to, I had to. Which keeper, my colleague through Madam President, do you have in mind? Which thief do you mean? Those fundamental property movements in the history of this space took place quite often. And so I'm asking if it's the 1919 or 1920 thief, Masaryk's name. If you mean this property movement too, or if you mean Josef II.? After all, those who acquired property after the White Mountain could also be seen today as harbors, and could also be pointed out to them, in the interest of historic settlement with fate, to those families who died in the Old Town Square by execution, that their offspring, or their relatives, might also be restituted. So it's all relative. And to that complete conclusion, the warning. You know, I've been talking here about legitimate and fair demands, wishes, citizens' desires, not the roar of the street or the voice of the street, which is processed in a certain way, which is created in a certain way medialally and which is then issued as a real voice of the people or vox populi. I'm talking about the fair demand for equality, the fair demand for a decent life within the 21st century, the fair demand that governance in this Republic be carried out correctly, right, without crooks, thieves, and so on and so forth. These are the demands that any good statesman, if he is, should also respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u39	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of Minister Herrman. And please prepare Mr Okamura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u40	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, many things have been said here that I will not repeat. However, I would like to try to return to the merit of this meeting, which was convened by representatives of two member clubs side by side, KSČM and Dawn. The title or point, whether or not we approve the programme, is: Information of the Government on the procedure of central government bodies in the implementation of Act No 428/2012 on property settlement with churches and religious societies. I think this is a really important topic and we need to be able to dispel any concerns, because there are simply no real problems in this matter. Let me give you some information. According to the data on the assets issued, which are sent once a year by the obliged entities of the Ministry of Culture - this list therefore exists - 121 real estate items were issued to beneficiaries in 2013 and no movable property was issued. For interested parties, these and more detailed data on issues published on the Ministry of Culture website. So it's just a comment on the challenge for which, of course, I thank you - things are accessible. A total of 300 calls were submitted to the Ministry of Culture for the release of property. Twelve of these calls concerned agricultural real estate, the rest other than agricultural real estate and movable property. Of the total 300 challenges, two challenges have so far been resolved positively. In particular, it is the issue of four non-agricultural parcels. Here it is necessary to realize the specifics of the resort of culture, because unlike other state organizations most of the calls were to issue movable items, especially the facilities of churches and monasteries. Given the way in which the property of churches and religious societies has been dealt with in the past, the individual items mostly have to be found in a very complicated way. Let me get a couple of basic numbers. According to Section 9, agricultural real estate, called calls - number 12. Denied five, seven pending. Things other than agricultural real estate, Section 10 of the Act, i.e. paintings, books, altars: calls of 288, 209, concluded agreements number two, as I said, rejected 35, are under discussion 78. As regards the examination of obstacles to the issue of matters under Section 8 of the Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies, there is no implementing regulation for this provision, as I said in the media. The National Monument Institute examines the possible existence of obstacles to the issue of the required items in any challenge received by it, whether it is an obstacle consisting, for example, of the so-called presidential decrees - we address the relevant archives, we cooperate with the State Land Office - or an obstacle consisting of the new construction of the land. I believe that at least what I have told you in brief shows how responsible and thorough we are to examine individual requests. The Ministry of Culture and its subordinate organisations respect the laws of this country and issue the matter only if the fulfilment of all legal conditions is sufficiently verified. Of course, as my colleague, Minister Jurečka, said, I am prepared to answer any questions on standard soil. So far, no one's turned on me either. This means, I am taking this opportunity to inform the public about the implementation of Act 428, and I can again guarantee that it is in perfect order and that there are no problems which would in any way prevent the implementation of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u41	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Okamura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to perform at all. But I'm really disappointed in both the factual debate, and we wanted the Dawn movement to have a factual, concrete outcome of this debate, and I would have repeated it here for the third time. I will not have any answers to my questions from either of the ministers, I have already noticed. So in order to make it comprehensively, clearly in one place, so that we may never have to hold an extraordinary meeting on this subject again, so that this item does not have to be opened, we just have to put the unified information in one place, and we have it resolved. So I'm not gonna get an answer, so it's probably not the point of giving information so that anyone can get a full update 24 hours a day. So that's one thing. But most of all, I'm disappointed in the meaningless arguments. Well, I thought we were going to stick to the subject, but I'm sorry, it's not about the subject, but I didn't start, Mr. Schwarzenberg started. We never said not to return what was stolen. We insist on returning what has been proven to be stolen. So I hope this argument doesn't come back to our address. Because it's populism. On the contrary, the Úsvit movement demands, and always by any law, and I said so in the opening speech, strict compliance with the law so that citizens do not have doubts. Nothing more, nothing less. [[11.20 hours]] We believe that ensuring strict compliance with the laws so that doubts are not raised is a good thing. And I'm surprised that it bothers anyone, or that someone doesn't think it's right in this particular case that we're talking about such a substantial volume here. The Dawn Movement never said we were against strangers as such. Never. We said we were against inadaptable foreigners, e.g. religious fanatics. Yes, I stand by it, we see it in Western Europe. Or we are opposed to the influx of foreigners taking jobs to Czech citizens in places that Czech citizens are interested in. It is the current problem of the Czech Republic. So we say this selectively, with the safety and jobs of Czech citizens in the first place. Once again, this is in line with the trend in the most advanced Western countries in Western Europe, where these trends have been confirmed even by a civil referendum. To conclude, Tomio Okamura has never said anything racist. I myself am a half-breed of two races, my ex-wife is Japonka, so my son is also a half-breed of two races, and I never say anything racist in my life. So I'm just saying in advance, in case there's another inexplicable, lying and populist argument to turn attention away from the subject of this meeting, so we're gonna have to say it at the very beginning. Because I would be against myself on this argument. So please don't push us around here with fictional, populist, meaningless arguments in order to divert attention from the subject of this meeting. Please, let's get back to the subject, and this is why we're all here and why the Dawn movement signed this. We have no other reason than the ones I said. So don't give us any other reasons. Maybe the Communists have other reasons, but we have these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u43	Thank you. Mr Filip, Vice-President of the House, is the last Member to sign up for priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u44	Thank you. Madam President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, if we had approved the agenda for the meeting, if we had the promise, it might have seemed that the report would have been given by the Minister of Culture, as he gave it, I would only ask if what 4. Last year, his predecessor Jiří Balvín announced if the paintings of Master Vyšebrodský monastery and Rubens were published, because he did not mention it here, he would certainly answer me, I would thank him and we could speak less ideologically and more factually. All I have to say is that I want the facts to be heard. And I would like to take the floor of both Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš that we will see this in September. We do not want anything illegitimate, because the Chamber of Deputies is not some kind of law factory, but of course, besides its legislative activity, it also has control of executives, so we could completely forgive the part of the debate. We want to know the facts, our voters want to know them too. I do not speak for all citizens of the Czech Republic, I speak for those whom I cannot answer, but I would like to answer them as they deserve the answer. As for some of the objections that have fallen here, and forgive me, I will repeat this once again: It was Mrs Nohavová's interpelation, the answer is in writing, because the interpellation was oral, we do not agree with the answer, because the answer did not guarantee that we would learn the facts. That is why we have reached the conclusion that the next step is the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The next step is not a criminal report. What do you want from us? You're asking us to go to the police and file criminal charges on some official? That's ridiculous! I don't want to arrest anyone. I want to have the same right to information that belongs to the citizens of the Czech Republic, and if it doesn't belong to us - because these people won't walk and write. They went to the polls, elected their MPs, and normally they come to my office on Monday and ask me questions that I can't answer. So I'm gonna interpel to that first, then I'm gonna try to find out in some way or find it in the documents and convey the information to the citizens. And you're telling me that based on certain information, I'm supposed to go to the police right now and make it a crime? You can't be serious, you who said that, including the Minister of Agriculture. Don't ask us to do that. And if we want to correct the injustices, it was not the intention of the legislature to correct the injustices by committing new injustices. I was clearly pointing this out here, and Pavel Kováčik reminded a colleague of Schwarzenberg here when he said we had to talk about when the property ceased to be the property of the particular church, the congregation, some monastery. Yes, Josef II. He stripped the church of property and was the emperor who built the most churches, among other things, because he said that no one should have to walk to the church for more than one hour. What's weird about that? But he didn't want the property to obscure the work of the priests. So darkened in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, there were Hussite wars, White Mountain, etc. What is weird is that Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk continued this in 1919 and then the government and Parliament of the Czechoslovak Republic, when he adopted the law on the first land reform and nothing that was over 150 hectares plus a hundred hectares of land, was no longer those who were subject to the first land reform and its revision in 1947. And in this respect, it's clear that the evidence of the property - we should at least do the historical memory here. That's another thing. And then, please, let's argue factually. If we argue by the Constitutional Court's decision that it was constitutional, remember that the Constitutional Court, although it did not declare the unconstitutionalness of the law, had cut the word "righteous." So it is not a fair settlement according to the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. And nobody here wants to talk about that! I believe that we will discuss this in September, and that is my request, my request. However, if you happen to approve the agenda of the meeting, of course I will have specific questions that I wanted to have here. The Prime Minister asked us to transfer them to the government committee. However, I would like to remind the Prime Minister that we are still a parliamentary republic, not a republic headed by an executive, and that is above Parliament. It's not here yet. I have not read any such constitutional law and will insist that we remain in the parliamentary Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u45	Thank you. The last enrollment is Minister Herman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I was trying a moment ago, my dear colleagues, here to stress that there are precise tables available, which, of course, can be looked at on the web pages, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the request to anyone I am able to bring them here to the Chamber of Deputies as regards the individual items. I think there was an important mention here a moment ago that we were actually coming out of some conjecture when we called this meeting. There was nothing concrete here that my colleague and I would be able to answer. These are indeed conjectures, or how recently, when we met on television, Mr Okamura presented some emails from the citizens. I'm sure these things need to be dealt with, but I really think that mere assumptions are not strong arguments. And for the President: I think it is worth pointing out that we are not really dealing with the history of the 17th century or the eighteenth century or the first land reform, but we are stumbling righting the injustices committed by the Communist regime, which enslaved this country on 25 February 1948 and to which, at least according to the contributions that are being made here, the KSČM is still reporting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-24-ps2013-013-01-000-999.u47	I do not see any prior rights, so we will now proceed to the agenda of the 13th meeting, the proposal of which is given on the invitation you have all received. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. So before we proceed to the vote, I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to re-registration with your cards. As the number has settled, we will proceed to the vote on the entire draft agenda of the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of approving the programme, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 2, to which 140 are registered, for 41, against 83. I note that the proposal has been rejected, therefore the programme has not been approved. I'm done with today's meeting. I'm just pointing out that we'll meet tomorrow at 9 a.m. to continue the meeting at the 12th meeting. Thank you.
