ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-006-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and on Amendments to Certain Acts (Authorisation Act), as amended, and Act No. 151/1997 Coll., on property valuation and amending certain laws (Act on property valuation), as amended /German press 70/3/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 70/4. I welcome Senator Jiří Šesták to see if he's here. [[Not present.]] I ask that the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-006-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal before us with somewhat unfortunate fate. Its purpose is to transpose two directives of the European Union into our legal order in the prescribed deadlines. The first concerns the extension of the period of protection to music recordings, the second modification so called. orphan works and special exceptions to enable them to be made available on the Internet. However, Parliament had to be submitted twice by the government, as the Chamber of Deputies was dissolved in the meantime. After adoption by the Chamber of Deputies without any changes, the Senate's proposal ruled out legislative technical deficiencies and at the same time supplemented the criteria for the occupancy of accommodation spaces. In the meantime, the European Commission has conducted proceedings against the Czech Republic for non-compliance with the transposition period due to all these delays. With regard to the Senate's amendments, these are, in general, irrelevant proposals for text editing, whose failure to implement would by no means call into question the interpretation of the law and prevent its proper application. As regards paragraph 22 of the proposal, I would like to reiterate here that this is a non-systemic adjustment. With the addition of the criteria of occupancy of accommodation spaces, simplified hotel rooms, the Ministry of Culture expects in the current amendment to the copyright law, however, that it will be linked to the other provisions of the law so that it does not unilaterally favour just one interest group. Regardless of these reservations, as a petitioner, I feel primarily responsible for the Czech Republic's failure to comply with its obligations. Therefore, in view of the difficult quorum necessary to confirm the original form of the proposal, it intends to agree to its adoption as agreed by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-006-001.u3	I thank Minister Daniel Herman and ask if the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Roman Procházka wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. Yes. I will ask the rapporteur to be patient. Minister Herman notes that he lost his voting card, which he brought to the rapporteur's desk. So I'm asking colleagues who used to use the Minister's card. The Minister may, of course, take a spare card before we find it, so that it is not shortened by the vote, but I assume that it will soon be found and there will be no problem. Of course, if it is to come to the vote, a replacement card may be delivered in the meantime. [[It's happening.]] I ask for peace now, the rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-006-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Minister's reasoning. I have to say that he said everything that matters. I would merely add that the transposition period for the first directive on the period of protection of the author's work expired in November last year. The deadline for the second directive on the use of orphan works ends in October this year. The amendment from the Senate contains 29 points, mostly minor adjustments outside point 22 concerning payment of hotel room charges. The same amendment was also tabled to this House, and it was rejected by the original vote. As far as the voting procedure itself is concerned, we will vote on the Senate amendment, for its approval we will need an absolute majority. Only if the House disagreed with the Senate's proposal would we vote on the law in its original wording. I'm alerting 101 votes here. For these reasons, as rapporteur, I recommend to the House to adopt the law as amended by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-006-001.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate and I'm asking if Senator Šesták wants to Malý first. [[Named Senators are not present.]] I'm picking up Ms. Putnová's application, but first I have to ask if the senators are interested. It's not like that. In that case, with the factual remark made by Mrs Anna Putnová in the debate which I have opened. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-006-001.u6	Good evening, Mr President, good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you of the brief history of this law, which has already been brought here by the Minister. It is indeed a pure transposition, which we have also seen in this way in the discussion of our school committee. We have not accepted any amendment. I would like to remind you that the amendment tabled by Mrs Zelienková actually contained paragraph 22 and the House agreed by voting that it would not support this option and that we would therefore respect it as purely transpositional, and that is why we have leaned forward and believed that a comprehensive amendment is being prepared, as Minister Herman promised. That is why I want to deliver the opinion of the TOP 09 and the starosta - we insist on the House version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-006-001.u7	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová, for her performance and for keeping up with the time. I'm asking who's next for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will take the vote. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution requires the approval of an absolute majority of Members present. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Copyright Rights and on Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, and Act No. 151/1997 Coll., on property valuation and amending certain laws, as amended, pursuant to House press 70/3, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 70/4." [[Copyright law]] [[Property valuation law]] I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration to determine the exact status of the person present. Once the number of entries has settled, we will vote in the vote number 113, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the resolution in the Senate variant. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 113, from 148 present for 123, versus 3. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. So we're not going to do this any differently. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 1. We'll continue with point 2. That's what it is.
