ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-006-006.u1	6. Government draft law amending certain laws in relation to the establishment of access to and supervision of banks, savings and credit cooperatives and securities traders (deed printing 108/ - second reading) The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government shall be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. I also ask Mr Jiří Dolejš's rapporteur to take the position at the rapporteur's table. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-006-006.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled amending certain laws in relation to the establishment of access to and supervision of the activities of banks, savings and credit cooperatives and securities traders has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the 2013 legislative work plan of the Government. The reason for submitting the draft law is the implementation of the European Directive on access to the business of credit institutions and on prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, referred to as CRM IV, and the Regulation on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms, referred to as the CRR. The aim of the adaptation contained in this Directive and the regulation is to strengthen the regulatory framework and to create conditions for ensuring stability, security and sufficient resilience of the banking sector and the entire financial system. The aim is also to strengthen consumer protection, to modernise prudential rules and to strengthen cooperation between supervisory authorities. Let me now briefly summarize some of the changes that the bill brings with it. The most important are the introduction of capital reserves, whose holdings may be required by the Czech National Bank in order to strengthen the capital amenities of banks, credit unions and securities traders. The competences for the application of remedies and sanctions are also strengthened, and there are also prerequisites for deeper cooperation between supervisory authorities. The draft law introduces requirements that must be met by members of the statutory body and supervisory body, respectively. the management board of the institution. There is also a restriction on the compatibility of a number of executive and non-executive functions in the bodies of other legal entities and new requirements are introduced for the institution's management and control system. The subject of administrative punishment will be newly also natural persons. I would also mention the anchoring of the possibility of declaring unethical and illegal practices so called. whistleblowing. The institution's staff are thus allowed to report the infringement internally through a special communication channel which the institution has an obligation to implement. Last but not least, those parts of the amended legislation which contain requirements that are newly regulated by the regulation, which is directly applicable by law, are being deleted and therefore these requirements cannot continue to be left to national legislation. Finally, let me state that the date from which the effective national legislation implementing the directive and the regulation was to be implemented was set at 1 January 2014. Therefore, the proposed law needs to take effect as soon as possible. The European Commission has already initiated with the Czech Republic the first phase of the infringement procedure of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for non-compliance with obligations arising from EU membership. Following the first stage of the formal notice procedure, the European Commission may, at the second stage of the procedure, bring an action before the Court of Justice of the EU and, at the same time, may propose the imposition of a fine already in a judgment declaring failure to fulfil the obligations of a Member State. In addition, the CRR is directly applicable to the EU Regulation, which will be effective from 1 January 2014, and it is therefore necessary that the Czech legislation be adapted to this Regulation as soon as possible. Mr President, honourable Members, in the light of the above, I ask you to give your consent to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-006-006.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš and I note that we ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 108/1. I call on the Committee rapporteur, Mr Jiří Dolejš, to present his intelligence report. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-006-006.u4	Thank you for the floor. As you have heard in the Minister's introductory words, we have discussed this press in proper reading because we have found that this material is to such an extent difficult that we should at least get to know it, on the other hand, if we stick only to the implementation base, then we should discuss it relatively quickly and not complicate our lives. I am saying this because, of course, there have been some considerations in the discussion of this material as to whether it should become a carrier of some of the problems that the financial sector, in particular, feels acute and in connection with the introduction of the banking union as well as current. But in the end, the agreement was won that the speed of discussion of this press was also in view of the fact that the deadline for implementation originally from 1 January and the effectiveness from 1 April were over, so I'm just basically stating that there is some willingness, consensual willingness, in the next term, to go back and deal with such things as the problem of the relationship between subsidiaries and branches of banking institutions, which, as I'm sure you can understand, can be a very significant problem in the Czech Republic, and to lay down relevant at least information obligations in case the banks concerned proceed to convert one form to another. [[Noise in the hall.]] And what is going to be a more difficult problem, to clarify the issues related to the Deposit Insurance Fund and banking supervision, because this is a matter which is different with regard to the branch and with regard to the subsidiary of the foreign mother concerned. So it's just to fill in this information. Since, in the original proposal, which was to be discussed before the third reading now in April, there were shorter deadlines, I assume that the proposals, which will probably be of a technical nature, will still be corrected by the final provisions relating to the effectiveness of this law. The Committee on Budgets itself has discussed this, and I must say that it has recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve this law without comment. The Committee on Budgets itself has not formulated any comments, nor has it formulated any amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-006-006.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I have no written application for the general debate. I'm asking who's reporting from place to general debate. No one's checking in. I am ending the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail, to which Mr Roman Kubíček is registered. I ask him to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-006-006.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for document number 685 to the press 108 in the framework of the amendment. And a very short justification: Due to the implementation deadline set at 1. 1. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 6. 2013 needed to prepare this bill in a very short time. In this situation, it was not possible to carry out a repeated review of the proposal submitted, so some minor shortcomings were identified by the petitioners to the Chamber of Deputies. These are mainly legislative technical adaptations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-006-006.u7	I thank my colleague Kubíček. I have the relevant amendment here - Parliamentary document 685. Anyone else for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Prime Minister? It's not. Mr. Rapporteur? Not either. There is therefore no motion for a vote. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. The Minister and Deputy Prime Minister will remain at the rapporteur's table, because the next item on our agenda is:
