ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure, as amended /German Press 182/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I would like to inform you that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at the first reading and, at the same time, warn you that I have received the veto against this procedure on behalf of ODS and TOP 09, therefore the law under Section 90 cannot be discussed and will be subject to standard procedure. I ask the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař to present this press as the plaintiffs. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me begin by thanking you for the whole process when the Chamber of Deputies, on a proposal from the Ministry of Transport, called an extraordinary meeting on this point, which I consider to be very important. During my short time in office, I participated in the interpelling of Members and Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and most of the interventions were based on continued or possible ongoing construction of transport infrastructure. Unfortunately, in all the answers I had to say that we have three basic problems today, how to build transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic at all. One of them is the purchase of land, which is covered by Law 416, the second issue is the areas of territorial planning, the principles of territorial development of individual agglomerations, regions, and the third state of unhappy state is in the field of public procurement, which has already been discussed here today, and a technical amendment should be prepared as soon as possible. The Ministry of Transport is aware of the state of affairs of today, we are aware of the state budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and are looking for all possible ways to reverse this negative process, to draw the European taxpayers' funds properly under operational programmes to transport and to invest reasonably the funds provided by the state budget. Your own amendment to the bill submitted. I would like to say that this is indeed a completely rational draft that deals only with agricultural land. I would like to point out that all line routes are not only conducted in agricultural land, but in the context of the discussion of the principles of the zoning plan or the territorial documentation, we will come across such land, which today is at a very low level with the price of individual agglomerations and areas. We're talking about CZK units per square metre. Just for comparison, one meter of guardrail or one bolt to the guardrail is now more expensive than one meter of agricultural land under line construction. Before the law was effective, these land were sold in the order of several hundred crowns per square metre. Law 416, which applies from 1. 2. 2013, he solved two things. He prevented the purchase of land, which is certainly the positive role of this law, and the land is now being bought out in the state as they are being led to the cadastral. Just for your sake, it used to be that agricultural land was bought and at the time of the zoning plan it became a construction plot and it came into the process of buying. This bill 416 has been resolved. On the other hand, it has set so low purchase prices that today it is demotivating for owners to accept the entire process of offered prices and contracts submitted by investor organisations. [[14.10 hours]] The proposed bill represents the partial and scope of the limited regulation of Act No 416. It concerns the setting of a purchase price other than construction land, i.e. agricultural and forestry land, for the purpose of obtaining it for the purposes of the State's construction of transport infrastructure. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The existing wording of the Act contains in Section 3b the possibility to increase the price of such land by 100 per cent, essentially to double, the purpose being to motivate landowners for their contractual sale compared to the official expropriation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u3	Minister, I'm very sorry, but I can't hear almost what you're saying because there's a very high noise coming from the left side this time, but sometimes it's from the right side again. I ask the left side of the House now to keep it down, and please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. Double the incentive of landowners for contractual sale compared to official expropriation is unacceptable from the point of view of owners. Given that the amount of the bonus is set at the maximum level, it does not imply an increase in the higher demands on the investor's budget, since the level of use of the bonus depends on the investor's financial possibilities. The above changes in the submitted material also propose a formal change in the method of determining the bonus, namely from the percentage increase of the expert of the price determined to multiply it by the statutory coefficient. This formal change also concerns the bonus for construction land and buildings, but there is no change in the amount of this bonus, which means we leave the law in the same wording as it was. Any increase in the purchase price of agricultural land will be offset by the acceleration of the property preparation of transport lines, saving time, administrative and financial costs associated with official expropriation. The specific use of the increased boundary of agricultural and forestry land bonuses will be determined by the internal act of the regulation by the Ministry of Transport, which was also submitted to Members in the submitted proposal. I've been accused that this law is pro-corruption. I would like to make a strong reference to such accusations, because we, by order of the Minister of Transport, clearly determine the scope of application of this bonification. This is set at eight times depending on the time when the owner of the land has the opportunity to enter into a purchase agreement with the investor. Of course, it is only up to the owner to decide whether to accept such an offer. If we don't, we can go into the expropriation process exactly as we do now. In cases of particularly good consideration, and here I would like to point out for example. on the section of the D11 motorway around Hradec, which has been dealt with for more than 20 years, we then set the possibility for the Minister of Transport to increase this bonus up to 16 times in cases of particularly worthy consideration. There is no way this is about any corruption. The contents of the command are mine. the setting of clear rules for determining the specific amount of the bonus for each type of land in individual cases and the aim is to harmonise the buy-in procedure and avoid possible discrimination with land owners of the same type in the same situation. Three basic principles. The legal maximum bonus for agricultural and forestry land will normally be used from one half, that is eight times the competence of the director of the investor organisation, and even after the increase the offered purchase price may not exceed 3/4 of the estimated price of the construction plot in the same location. We're still talking about the construction site in the real estate register being 100 percent and the agricultural land at a maximum of 3/4 with any bonification. The amount of bonus will decrease in time. This should speed up the purchase and then continue the standard construction process, i.e. the maximum amount of the bonus shall be applied to the quick acceptance of the land purchase offer. At a later acceptance, the price will decrease. The legal 90-day period for accepting the offer will be divided into three to four periods of time to which the specific amount of the bonus will be assigned. Exceptions to this procedure may be provided by the Minister of Transport in reasonable cases, in particular because of apparent injustice. The unused part of the bonus can thus in exceptional cases correct the unfair impact of the standard purchase price offered. I just want to draw up the situation we have today in a few numbers. As of 30. 3. In 2014 249 expropriation cases were reported in the Czech Republic. From 1. 1. 2013 to 30. 4. A further 135 cases were initiated in 2014. Of this, only 21 cases are decided. 96 cases are being prepared, suspended so far, 153 cases are being appealed and 32 cases are being dealt with by an action against a final decision. As regards specific sections, the section Olbramovice D3 - it is necessary to buy out 204 land, 100 land was bought out, 104 land is settled, of which 72 in the expropriation procedure. And one more statistical number. Road 1/38, bypass Cologne - 72 land had to be redeemed on this bypass, 39 was expropriated and the expropriation period lasted four years. As far as financial requirements are concerned, I would like to mention the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and the allocated amount of appropriations for preparatory work. These preparatory works include projects and land purchases. For 2014, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure allocates the amount of 3.8 billion. 2015 we expect 3.8 billion, 2016 4.1 billion. Of which about 50-60 percent should go primarily to land purchases. From this point of view, after these perhaps unhappy figures, I would like to ask that the Chamber of Deputies accept the proposal tabled quickly and allow for the efficiency and speed up of the property preparation of important line transport structures. It can also be assumed that, during the examination of a proposal which it will bring in certain situations, or where appropriate. it can lead to an increase in the purchase price, a virtually zero willingness to voluntarily sell agricultural land, as owners and investors will wait for the results of the legislative process. The rapid progress of the legislative process was therefore desirable. For this reason, we have taken the liberty of proposing a hearing pursuant to Section 90, and, as the President says, on the basis of two parliamentary clubs, such a procedure has been put forward. I must say that I am really sorry because I think that this law is not a big policy and that it should bring about a real correction of the situation and it should move the economy of this country and potentially reduce the unemployment that the Prime Minister has been talking about in his opening speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u6	From me a good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment not in the position of the electoral commission, but in the rapporteur of this law, 416/2009. My information will largely overlap with the information submitted by the biller, so I will try to be very brief. The submitted government proposal responds to the current unsatisfactory situation regarding the purchase of land for the construction of infrastructure, and, as mentioned, this applies mainly to transport structures, but the overlap is for example. and energy infrastructure. The brief recapitulation is such that the amendment proposed by the Government addresses a key part of the said Act No. 416/2009 Coll., the method of determining the maximum price for contractual negotiations between the State or its controlled organisation, such as: ŘSD, SŽDC or Directorate of Waterways, and landowners. It is also important to note that the point discussed today deals with the amount of land price or construction in the voluntary purchase of land or construction intended for the construction of infrastructure and does not solve compensation in the event of forced expropriation. The Minister mentioned that the expropriation process would not be affected or limited by today's negotiations and its outcome. I will also remind you that the last amendment to this law came into force more than a year ago, 1 February 2013. I'm sure some of you will remember the approval. It turned out that the current adjustment, the possibility of offering a bonus of 100 percent, was low. We come from a practice where the price of agricultural land is between 8 and 35 crowns per metre, and after an increase today we are talking about the price of 16, exceptionally 70 crowns per metre, which investors can offer to landowners. In that period before 1 February, the price was around 100 crowns on average. So the reduction is huge. It can be simply said that after last February 1st, people simply do not want to sell land to the State and the whole process is stopped, in some cases almost stopped. [[14.20 hours]] Here put forward, in my opinion, an ambitious plan by the Ministry of Transport wants to address the situation immediately. In particular, the amendment addresses § 3b para. 1 which newly states that the amount of the purchase price in the purchase contract, where the necessary rights are acquired pursuant to § 3a, can be negotiated up to a maximum of (a) the price determined by the expert opinion multiplied by a coefficient of 16 in the case of the land with the exception of the construction plot; and (b) the price determined by the expert opinion multiplied by a coefficient of 1,15 in the case of the construction plot or construction site. So in a simple calculation, we are talking about a possible increase in the price per square metre over the range of 120 to 525 crowns. It is also important to note that this is a kind of framework which to the Ministry of Transport, respectively. those organisations will enable effective graduation of the offered price depending on the time. It's one of our ideas, we're working on calling it a time bonification, and so it's a positive motivation and some kind of communication to landowners: the sooner you sell, the more you get. The minister mentioned that the amount of the bonus would fall in time, that is to say the maximum amount will apply when the offer is accepted quickly, at a later date the price will fall. And there's an important exception. Only the Minister of Transport may authorise the exemption from this procedure in reasonable cases, in writing. And the last important moment. It is precisely the specific use of the increased boundary of the framework that would be proposed in the amendment that will be determined and managed by the internal act of the proceedings by the Ministry of Transport. The internal act is in some kind of work version at the moment, and if in a detailed debate the request will talk about it, then either I or the Minister can certainly present it in a nutshell at the moment. And it's really just a suggestion. It is spoken of 750 %, i.e. 7,5 times, within one month, then four times in the second month and only an increase of 250 % between the 60th and 90th day following the date on which the owner received the draft contract. And now I will repeat myself: only the Minister of Transport can grant an exception to these rules. Latest information from me as rapporteur at the moment. Indeed, a hearing was requested within a shortened period pursuant to Section 90. I therefore note that this has already been rejected in writing, and then I will certainly be happy to sign up in the debate and we will discuss and ask at least to shorten the deadlines so that the Chamber of Deputies sends a clear signal to the landowners, but also to the professional public, and we would be very happy and grateful if this law could be prepared for approval and processing at the June meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So much for the rapporteur's report at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have one application for it, and I also have a de facto, virtually. a request for a factual remark from Mr Adamec. However, the factual point in the definition responds to the course of the debate. Since I have just opened the debate, there is nothing to respond to. If you don't mind, I would allow Mr Laudát to fill the letter of the Rules of Procedure, and then you can respond to the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. We gave together with the ODS veto club to discuss in § 90. I'll try to explain the reasons. Of course, we understand and we are clearly aware of the situation in the preparation of the construction of express roads, motorways and first-class roads. That's the amendment that concerns, that plus rail infrastructure, shipping. However, on the one hand, I think that it is so crucial that the economic committee, and here I would intercede so that there would be no proposals for discussion in any other committee, did not take it. And I really ask that the President warn me afterwards, I will propose and suggest that the time limit for committee discussions be reduced to 20 days, which is the convention for this to be at the June meeting. I confess that today I know that they are blocked because of the purchase of the building, which could succeed quite quickly to realize. I'm a big fan of R35, the expressway in the part between Opatovice and Mohelnice. The first two sections have completed the zoning decision, on the first was planted about 28 expropriation procedures, for the next hundreds are ready. I understand, of course, the total landowners who have neighbors from whom it was bought out at significantly higher prices, and now there has been, in fact, the last amendment to this law last year, which, by the way, I think, was inappropriately mentioned by the Minister of Finance Babiš, although he did not say the number, but it is about principle. We hindered speculation, and back then it was also supported across the political spectrum. Another thing, however, is that the rapporteur here also said that there will be some decision-making from certain levels of the Minister to certain levels of the investor and his regional branches. I fear that in the atmosphere of the Czech Republic, criminalization, suspicion and attack, the principle is really on the edge, and I fear that it can be pro-corruption, especially where large sums are involved. I say, it is, now I do not touch the Minister at all or simply those who worked it out, but even if it was not, questions may fall in the Czech environment, especially when it suits someone in person, why they let go, why they didn't let go. But what I consider to be a little bit more of a problem is that I have received some wording from the Minister here, and this completely convenes with what the rapporteur has said. That means there's going to be limits, there's talking about maximum ones - up to the top. That's how I understood he was copying the proposal. However, you have been given the official material adjusted and overworked and I would like to be wrong, but I also consulted the House's attorney there, and as it has been revised, so maybe, maybe, I really don't know, I'm not a lawyer and I only learned the information a short while ago, because I was warned by some colleagues that it can be seen as hard. So that means that there's not going to be any displacement, and it's basically like, I'd say a little bit of a business principle that somebody could, according to the urgency of the purchase on which the building decides, but that it's hard. That, too, is why we still have to deal with this in the Economic Committee. That means we support the need to deal with this situation quickly. We want it to be approved at the June session, but I am really sorry that we could have done one more in case of this urgency. Perhaps at least the principles and discussions could have started in advance in the Economic Committee. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, so now we're a little in the lift. So there's no obstruction from us, but we're worried that there might be a serious problem here, and that for one discussion, at least for one discussion, it is on the Economic Committee. On the other hand, whether it leaves the Economic Committee back here in a similar version, or rather modified, I believe that there will be a clear interpretation of lawyers, so that we do not really get, or are not accused of some legislative bastard who would then require a quick amendment, but rather cut off our shame, then I hope that in agreement some complex changeling in the Economic Committee will be accepted and it will return here at the June meeting so that we can approve it before the summer. Thank you for your attention, and please, Mr President, to draw my attention at the appropriate moment. I'm gonna propose a 20-day cut to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u9	Yes. Such a proposal must be heard in the debate. Now here was Mr Adamec's factual comment, of course. I hope that Mr Laudát has given you enough incentives to respond to. Please, you have your word and your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You, too, have given me several suggestions, even the Minister. I'd like to say one thing. Of course, we also wondered whether to allow the 90th regime or not. Finally, in initial consultations with the Ministry, I personally believed that this would be a return to a state that was before the last adjustment when the purchase price fell. But that did not happen. And I have one thing to say. It's really serious. We're all from somewhere, we all lobby for some roads, highways, railroads, waterways and other works. It's okay. Definitely slowing it down, virtually. standard mode doesn't mean we want to block it, but since it's a serious matter and these principles have been described here, I even think, as the Minister has said here, it's a classic example of a near-corruption environment, this. But it really needs to be discussed in committee, I think it is necessary to take a position on this, because as I always say, and I think that we all know it from our life's practice, the devil is always hidden in detail, and most of the laws that look like innocent modifications usually have the devil in them. So I would really recommend that we really talk about this on the committee. I think we all want to speed up the construction of important communications, important railways and other works, and I definitely think that since it's taking so long, now don't take me at my word, it's gonna last a month to do a job with a well-executed feeling that we've done our best to make it really work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u11	Yes, that was Mr Adamec's point of fact. And now here I have applications from the post. President of the ODS Club Stanjura, then President of the Úsvit Fiala Club and then with proper application by Mr Zemek. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I agree that the purchase price will increase, but now we have to tell each other. The law, which reduced them to an unacceptable low level in my opinion, has been in force since February last year. That means, that's what we're trying to get into before February 2013. None of us wants to say seriously that before February 2013, the rapid preparation of transport structures was. I just want to say that we don't expect any legislative act to make a miraculous change. If we say we're going back before February 2013, let's say it was fast then? Well, it wasn't. It wasn't. I think there are much more serious obstacles to why the slow preparation of buildings is, and I am not saying this against this law, which I will ultimately support after discussion in the Economic Committee. I would like to draw attention to the risks first of this law, some of the principles, and then I will comment on the fact that it delays the preparation and implementation of construction in a much longer way. Firstly, there is a 90-day deadline for that statement, it is suggested that an internal act should be set by when. The deadline is extremely short, and given that it is said that if you are very fast and from the investment plan to the implementation of the construction will expire 10 or 12 years, and this is without irony, it compares what is fast, what is slow and what is average, so 90 days does not matter. Let's just say that some of the land belongs to cities and municipalities, and where, of course, handling property is decided by the council, and the council doesn't sit every month and 90 days is short. I mean, we have companies here that have a foreign owner and their boards decide to sell property. Some have it that way, even if it's ten square meters, and it goes abroad, and until they have the approval of the majority owner, it just doesn't come and then 90 days can... Here I would recommend that the deadline be reasonably longer. I'm not saying endless, but let's consider the risks, if 120 isn't better than 90 with respect to the municipal... That they're not only natural persons, but they're legal persons. In his introductory words, I believe the Minister described exactly the emergence of a corrupt environment - and then he says: I am not planning any corruption. But that's two different things. When I say I see the risk of a corrupt environment, I don't blame anyone for corruption. I'm just saying, according to the bill, he's the only one who's going to decide prices across the Czech Republic and increase by up to 100 percent, because 8 and 16 are 100 percent, so if you get two hundred or four hundred, the only one in the whole territory will be the Minister of Transport, whoever it is. That's just not good. And let's have fun in those 20 days, what mechanism to give. And then the bill says, as the basis is eight times. Let's ask why it's eight times the base. We will have plenty of time to do this again, and maybe in this detailed debate we can explain why it is not seven times or ten times. Then I want us all to realize that the moment we approve it and when it passes, it starts to apply, so the usual price changes in those locations. She's like it says today, 8 to 35, but especially where the land prices are going to be bought out, and on those cadastral territories plus how the usual price is constructed, so the usual price changes. And at the moment you'll be working in the same cadastral in two, three years of similar action, the usual price may be five times higher than next year's next year than in 2014 could be 2017. To keep that in mind. I think the sympathetic step of the opposition is that we are in favour of shortening to 20 days, that is, under what we would be able to block. The reasons for the debate are absolutely material. I just find it a little tense when the Prime Minister here says that if we approve in the '90s, jobs will be created. I'm pointing out that we're going back to the state that was last year. And now let's talk about the real causes of the long construction work. In the Czech Republic, we have an incredible number of inputs of objectors to the management. You discuss the principles of territorial development of the region several times, all those who disagree with the construction for ideological or practical reasons can raise their objections. It takes years. I was talking this morning about South Moravia's bad luck about the court abolishing her principles of territorial development. And when they're approved in that county, they're taking up urban plans and municipalities. And there are enough mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors of the present or exes to know how long the zoning plan, assignment, concept, acceptance is being discussed. If it goes fast, about four years, it's already slowly six, then one clerk takes something off your official record instead of 30th day 29, or it's about which day it's 30th, when you put it up 1. And you take it off 31st, if it's 30 days or 29th, and the process is repeated and it takes years again. But, okay, we've been through the principles of territorial development, two or three years on the edge - I think South Moravia is planning it for 2016, that it will be - then the municipal planning will come, three or four years before you approve it, there will be a request for the investor's territorial management in this case when we talk about state constructions. Again, the same ideal opponents of buildings who protested in territorial development, who protested in the zoning plan, are again protesting in territorial proceedings. You don't have to be the landowners for the zoning process yet, you have to say. And it takes months to years, because it's standard for someone to appeal, it goes to the county, or it goes to the administrative court. Only then, when you have completed the principles of territorial development, the zoning plan, you have a final territorial decision, comes a request for a building permit, where the same ones are re-entering the process, for the fourth or fifth time. And they're stretching it again. And it's true that for a final building permit, you need owners. I think that - and it will not be easy to agree on this and it will be even harder to enforce it, because the resistance will be great - the opponents of the construction should have that chance once, and if they fail, it should not happen again in the next stages. And let's talk about what grade it's best at. It's not that we want to exclude the public from this discussion, but it can't be repeated. We're talking about expropriation. It should be an absolutely extraordinary act. It is totally unacceptable when we hear that we have 200 land on R35 and we want to expropriate 107 of it. I understand why these officials are doing this, I'm not criticizing them, but we can't do this. When, on the contrary, should we expropriate when some so-called. activists buy 20 square meters in co-ownership, there are 32 owners, they don't take over the mail. Well, to make the investor go crazy, to get a normal route... Those people don't care about the price, they don't even care about the particular land. They're just trying to stop the construction at any cost. And whoever ever went to Ústí to see the unfinished section, sees the result of winning activists over the state. And it's not the price of land. That's what you have to say. [[14.40 hours]] This novel is good. We'll support her. I think we'll discuss the weaknesses or the risks. I think we're able to find a solution that we will mostly support. We'll discuss this at the second and third readings at the June meeting, which means the law can be effective from August. However, I think that we must focus much more attention on the construction process as a whole. This must be prepared at the government level. There's no way to make it out of the opposition or any parliamentary proposal. Not to mention the EIA. I mean, I don't even want to talk about it. There is also a problem of alignment with the European Commission, and it is extremely difficult. Not just for a deal between us. I think we're going to be easier than the chance to push this through, because we're going to have activists before we enter the Chamber of Deputies, and we're going to be blamed for recording the concrete, the road lobby, the railroad lobby. But I think it's much better to speed things up. And I really don't want to downplay the meaning of this novel. Those are the things we wanted to point out, think about what it's gonna do with the usual price when it's in that cadastral. [[unintelligible]] Also, the question is whether the price will be for the entire construction or for the entire cadastral territory. I think we should focus on building, not on cadastral territory. Colleagues and colleagues from the Moravian-Silesian Region know very well the construction extended by Rudná, where the border of the cadastral territory of the regional town of Ostrava and the adjacent village is in the middle of the field. The paper prices, the basis from which it counts, are diametrically different, and the owners, and they're decent citizens, they're not any land speculators or any opponents of buildings, they don't understand why there's 80 and there's 8 when it's the same field. There's neither the city nor the industrial zone. Nothing, nothing like that. These are, in our opinion, things that we need to focus on. And I hope that the government will come up with a proposal for changes in the construction law. Then we can talk about whether or not public procurement can be influenced in any way. On the other hand, my experience from the chair in which the minister sits, and I have to say it, although it is not quite popular. Construction firms are complaining that there aren't enough orders from the state. That's right. On the other hand, each contract from the State ends up with the UOHS. They do it to each other. It's not his fault. Minister or head of the RSD, SŽDC is now completely different. That's where the complaints just fall one by one. And if we have to talk about, like, 12 billion of SFDI last year, let's see how many disputes there have been, what value of contracts in the UOHS. And then we have to ask those construction firms that are partially legitimately complaining not to do this. I said, if there's a foul, of course fight back. If there's anything in there that might be favoring one company, or you've been wrongfully expelled. But there can't be a dispute and then a negotiation against the background of a dispute that's dragging on for months and months. I think we're able to find a consensus that the UOHS might have some administrative time and should be making decisions about them. There is, however, a question when the deadline expires, whether the state that is being challenged or the original state applies. It's not exactly that simple. What would we, as citizens' democrats, definitely recommend? In a fundamental way, increase bail when applied to the UOHS. And in the event that the filing is not granted to fail on behalf of the state. In a really crucial way. Make it a percentage, don't let it be in the order of hundreds of thousands. If it's a billion crowns contract, even a $500,000 bond or $800,000 bond is nothing in that potential volume. These are, in our opinion, recipes that will help speed up the preparation and then the realization itself. But tonight we're talking about prep. We're not talking about the realization itself. At the same time, what I have been trying to do in that short time in the chair is what I wish the Minister lucky enough for those who propose routes to be able to estimate in advance where we will encounter legitimate citizens' concerns and say: This is not where the route will lead. If it looks best from an engineering point of view, it's not enough. We need to know if this route has a chance, not because somebody wants EIA, but if it doesn't hit the citizens who live there. From my point of view and from our point of view, they are the ones who are supposed to sell the building, not those who live at one end of the Republic and apply their ecological senses at the other end of the Republic. In conclusion, let me just give you an example that we call the protection of the mountains. We, who live in the Moravian-Silesian region, are surprised at what can be built in the Giant Mountains and not in our country. And then we found the answer. Those conservationists who thus defend our Jeseníky and Beskydy go skiing to the Giant Mountains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. That was Mr. Chairman of ODS Stanjura. Now I have two factual points. First Mr Kučera, then Mr Pilný. Two minutes first for Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to specify my question in the direction of the Ministry of Transport, after a comprehensive speech by my colleague Stanjura, and I would like to draw your attention to the table, an annex to the explanatory report on the bill, where the bonuses we are talking about are mentioned. And I would like to point out the prices shown here for one kilometer of the route, i.e. the purchase price. Current state of one kilometer of the route: the purchase price is 1.75 million, at bonus 2 - 3.5 million, at bonus 8 - 4 million. CZK and with a bonus of 16 - 28 mil. Kč. I'm not questioning the price. I'm just asking, who's gonna set the bonus? Who will set the amount of bonus 2, who will set the amount of bonus 8 and who will set the amount of bonus 16? Bonus 16, we learned that the Minister of Transport will be appointed. I agree. But who will be the responsible person who will set the amount of bonus 2, who will set the amount of bonus 8? Is he gonna be some kind of clerk? On what basis will he decide? Will solid rules be established, or will it be up to him to do so? I think it's a space for really great creativity when I say it very politely. And it will be a great opportunity for us to discuss this subject - especially this - on the Economic Committee. And I hope that the Economic Committee will take a very clear position on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u15	Mr. Pilný. Also with a factual point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to agree with what has been presented here by President Stanjura. Each approval stamp means the potential for corruption. Not only in the Czech Republic, but especially in the Czech Republic. But so far history, even recent, has not shown that there is a difference between one person or a collective body holding the stamp. I don't think that makes any difference. I would continue to agree that any constructions in the Czech Republic are blocked for the reasons mentioned here. It is perhaps a completely new law on line construction, it is a situation at the UOHS, we have newly added EIA, also public contracts. All these issues have been discussed and will be discussed by the Economic Committee, which means that we are intensively engaged in this. On the other hand, it is not possible to solve this in one way, one wave of a wand and raise a wide discussion here about all the problems that exist here. We're facing very specific problems, and there are two of them. First, we are pressed for time, which means that some constructions can really be completed by the end of the year, and if we do not adopt this law in time, it will not happen. And the second thing is that expropriation processes have been initiated under extremely hard conditions, and that is definitely wrong. That is why I would argue that we should not be spreading waves here, but we are focusing on the particular nature and all the other problems that are much more complex, that we are dealing with - and we are dealing with them on the Economic Committee - and we are moving on to the more complex things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u18	First of all, I would argue whether a larger corruption environment is one or an x. Then why do we have a council? Why isn't the mayor or mayor himself handling the property but a collective body? I said it's one zero in linear arithmetic, that when it's ten collective, it's zero at risk, and when it's a city itself - I just said it's a risk described. And let's not discover America. For the cases mentioned by the Minister, ten square meters - there's a lot of colleagues from the government again. Well, that buys off the city, we don't have to regulate the law. And maybe he'll sell it to the state with a loss of ten square feet. It'll come back to this town a hundred times if it's here bypassing the city. That's what I did at City Hall. The co-conspirators in the D.A. understood that. We were buying out homes with losses that were about to collapse, and the state wasn't able to give more than an estimate price. And for an old house, when those citizens are 50 years old and they're about to give way to construction, the estimate price won't give you money for a new house. Our council bought it to buy a new house. We sold it at a loss, in quotation marks, with a net accounting loss of the state, but the city and citizens lived to build a construction for 300 million. And it took two million to make that difference. That's the standard way to deal with it, these special cases. And believe that many mayors and many deputies are already doing this and are ready. And if they know the law will pass in a month, they'll be buying land from their citizens next week at the council. It doesn't really bother them there. The cash flow isn't that tense, but it needs to know. We have clearly declared and proposed the opposition to discuss 20 days. I think we should really forget about the '90s in a good way because we want to debate it. I think we'll see if there's any amendment. The amendments will be directed not against, we're not raging here that the proposal is wrong. And that time is really minimal. Just to tell you the truth. Exceptional cases can be solved by the council, and many of them are doing it today. They're not waiting for the Chamber of Deputies, the government, or the Senate to tell them. [[Time limit alert.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u19	I'm sorry, but I had to draw attention to the expiry of the time limit. Another factual point - the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u20	Colleagues, I'm going to try to ease it a little bit and speed it up in that factual remark. We are aware of the enormous number of problems involved in construction. We're aware of the problem of recalling, with the activists, with the HOUSE, we know all that. And now I'm actually just going to repeat what Ivan Pilný, Chairman of the Economic Committee, said a little while ago. These are fundamental topics that we are already dealing with, and we will continue to address them. I can also mention line transport constructions, a draft of this law. We've already opened it at such a zero stage. But please, today we're really dealing with the prep, here's the buyout. For my part, I'm from Pardubice County. It concerns the I/35 road, where we have some 1,200 landowners who are just waiting. This is the merit of today's debate - unblocking the buyout and the preparation. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Now the Minister has claimed priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just made a few quick comments here that I would dare to respond to. I'm gonna start from the end, how the councils help investor organizations get land. Yes, indeed, this is what is happening, and we are dealing with the regional authorities ourselves, and we are trying to convince them to actively help us in this process, because they are closer to the owners, they are in contact with them daily, and they can influence them in their own way. On the other hand, it has to be said that if the council of the municipality and the county does so, it is more of a desperation, not because it is enthusiastic. Out of desperation, the condition of the bypasses and the construction of the infrastructure will move on, because by law we have no mandate in our hands to force people to voluntarily sell our land for double the eight crowns of the purchase price. I'm afraid so. As regards the subsequent sale to the State, the investor organisation, if it is a loss, I would say that this should be more of an interest of the Police of the Czech Republic. Why does someone buy land and then sell it to the state with a loss? This is not the way a proper caretaker should behave. As regards the time limits, Mr Stanjura proposed a debate on whether 90 or 120 days is reasonable or not. This law should, as its name says, shorten the time for the construction of transport infrastructure. I would hate for us to talk about setting new deadlines that go beyond the edges of the existing ones. When it comes to multiples - if seven times, eight times is power or little. We actually did an analysis and it's in this table as prices of individual land move, and from that came the analysis that eight times, or sixteen times. I would not like the Chamber of Deputies - I think it is an undignified Chamber of Deputies - to discuss whether it will be four times or five times, so-called. We've been looking for a response from the public, whether we've hit it multiple times or not. With regard to the whole process of construction, as we have heard here from the President of the Civic Democratic Party Club, I think he has described very objectively the whole process that is, and this law in itself is not omnipotent and is not saving. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic has no law in its hands that could enforce the will of the state in the field of strategic buildings, as is the case in the Federal Republic of Germany, as is the case in Austria, and as has been the case in Slovakia for four years. So the Lining Construction Act, which should have two separate items, means declaring constructions in the state interest and adopting a law and then determining how we proceed to the building permit processively. This is what the Czech Republic deserves, and this is also what is in the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic. With regard to the setting of boundaries, when anyone can decide, this small amendment is accompanied by the order of the Minister of Transport, let it be called a methodical instruction, let it be called an implementing decree, it is just a question of nomenclature. It clearly declares in the time of competence of the Road and Motorway Directorate, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, what boundaries, what bonuses they can use. It concerns agricultural land, it also concerns bonuses, it also concerns construction and other parcels. As for the 16 times discussed. At the moment we talk about the price of CZK 8 per metre and the exception of the Minister of Transport is 16 times, we are at the price of 128. When we talk about the price of 16 crowns, there is no need to apply the bonus of the Minister of Transport, we only need seven times to get to the price comparable. Perhaps just the last thing I would like to say, as to whether this principle will be applied to the entire length of the building, or if it will be broken down by the land register. I think we need to be based on a record in the real estate register, not on the route. Therefore, the bonuses seem to straighten the situation so that one neighbor in one real estate register would not be worth CZK 20 and possibly multiple CZK eight and the other would not be worth CZK eight and it could be applied to the exemption of the Minister of Transport that was discussed seventeen times, thus making up for the obvious injustice. This is the principle that we want to propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u24	Hello again. I thank the Minister for his answers to the questions that have fallen. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to my question. I would repeat it once again, and if the Minister doesn't know from his head, I will, of course, be glad if he answers me in writing or otherwise. The question is: Who will set the amount of bonus 2? Who will determine the amount of bonus 8? He's gonna be an officer at the ŘSD? Will it be the director of ŘSD? Is it gonna be another person? I would really like to know the answer to that question. I think it exists. I don't suspect you have it all figured out, but I think it's a good idea for us to know not only in the House but also in the public as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u25	The Minister intends to respond immediately. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u26	Dear Member, I will, of course, give you a written answer, but I would like to answer that question now. Of course, it is in the competence of the director of the investor organization, that is, the multiple of one or two to eight, respectively, is in the competence of the general director of the investor organisation. Directorate of Waterways, Railway Infrastructure Administration and Road and Motorways Directorate. It is above this limit on the basis of a request for an exemption from the Minister of Transport. The amount of bonding is distributed over time. This prevents any possibility of speculation - we will give it and we will not give it. This is conditional on the time when the purchase contract is submitted. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u27	One more de facto Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for your answer. I just wanted to make sure, because, of course, there's some information running. This means, I understand well that by increasing the price from CZK 1,759,000 to CZK 14 million. CZK, which means eightfold, will be decided by the director of ŘSD, for example. If I understand correctly. This means 1,750 000 on the one hand, the determined price, the decision of the director of ŘSD 14 million crowns. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Zemek, followed by Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll be quite brief. I will not deal with the EIA Act, I will not deal with the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act or the Administrative Code, but only with this amendment, which has one purpose: to make small-scale landowners more comfortable, affected by line constructions. I fully respect my colleagues' objections on the right side of the spectrum, their concern that there may be some speculation or abuse. But I'm not lobbying here today for some speculators, but it's for petty owners and honest owners who have owned land there for generations and who have been harmed there. I will give one particular example of practice from my region, where the construction of the railway corridor to České Budějovice is blocked by the fact that very low purchase prices were offered to owners there. Let me be specific, it was seven crowns per square metre, ladies and gentlemen. Seven crowns! So there are hundreds and millions falling, so here the investor offered them seven crowns per square metre. And these people just deserved us to support and approve this amendment because they're affected by the construction there, they agreed to it, they're not speculators. Then let's talk about the environmental impact assessment here when there are other amendments, like the 100th, the EIA Act, but today we're talking about the purchase prices. I'd like to ask you to support this. If it's not in the 90's anymore, at least in the speedy one, as I've noticed from my colleagues on the right side of the spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u31	Mr Kalousek is now registered, which I do not see, so I will give the floor to Mr Birke. Here he comes. Excuse me, Mr Kalousek has the floor. Mr. Birke will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u32	I am very sorry, Mr President, colleagues, I have not been able to unsubscribe. In my speech, I wanted to ask a question about a certain methodology for setting the bonus. I understand from the Minister's speech that a principle is prepared, so we will leave the debate on the Economic Committee and not delay the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u33	Yes, thank you. Mr. Birke, who is still the last logged in... is not the last logged in. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly, because I think my colleague Stanjura has described this very well, the whole course from the zoning plan to the building permit. True, it's for a book, and sometimes for a very sad book, maybe a novel. I very much welcomed the short version in the '90s, because here it is necessary to distinguish - speculation and speculators. Speculation with the land may be because, as my previous speaker said, I think the Minister, and I think the entire House is not talking about the people that, as my previous speaker said, were offered seven crowns. We're not talking about them at all. We're talking about various civil associations that buy one-tenth of a meter, 20th of a meter, and they're throwing you, forgive me for the expression, pitchfork into the whole process, but in such a way that you get... Maybe you don't have a zoning decision on the Náchod bypass after 17 years. So you're dealing with land because you have 15 civic associations there. And God forbid, if you publish them, those people! And if you publish them, the press still want you to apologize publicly. I have to say, in general, it is a full bag of problems. I want to very much appreciate the Minister's fact that we actually started this segment because it stopped talking and something started to happen, which is fine. On the other hand, I have to say that the truth is that if we talk about the situation of land purchase, let's say that's the next step that actually... Before that, we still have a few serious problems. And that is self-government, government in relation to the zoning plan, and especially the territorial decision. That's a huge problem. And I don't want to be detailed because I'm limited in time. And last but not least, of course, it is already mentioned by Mr. colleague of the Public Procurement Act and Linen Buildings Act. That's all, thank you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would therefore recommend, if the veto is 90, at least keep the short version to committee and only economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Šidlo.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few comments from another part of the opposition in the Chamber of Deputies. I must say that I was very sorry that we were not invited to prepare, virtually. at least for information on the preparation of this amendment of the law. I have been in the Chamber of Deputies for quite a long time, and we actively participated in Act 416/2009 because we had an interest in building transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic in real time, as is customary in other states of the European Union. We were also at the novel, which was mentioned as valid since January 2013. It was such a habit that, in fact, even in opposition, we had quite enough space to make our comments and maybe in a way replace inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, so that the legislation leaving the Chamber of Deputies would be of good quality. I am very sorry that today we are talking about an amendment to Act 416 and I am basically not sure if I am holding the right press from what the Minister and the rapporteur have said. Because I'm printing 182 when I read it carefully, and the only thing I'm going to use: it was delivered to Members on April 25 at 8.38 hours. Unfortunately, I don't have another source of press on this amendment. The Minister here speaks of the draft decree as an internal regulation. Of course I can trust him, but I didn't see any. Basically, it's hard to have a discussion. And when the Minister, through the Government, comes before the Chamber of Deputies and asks for a hearing pursuant to Section 90, it is very difficult to deal with the text. The text is very simple, it's really so naive, I'd say it turns percentages into multiples. But on the other hand, it has already been said from one of my colleagues that the devil and the devil are in it. It really is full of problems, including the effects that Mr Stanjura also mentioned, about how this might affect future prices. And I feel exactly the same fear. On the one hand, I would not support the veto, but on the other hand, I am pleased that it has been accepted, we will support the shortening of the discussion, and I am very pleased that it will go to the Economic Committee, because it will be the only chance for us in opposition to actually familiarise ourselves with what the Minister is presenting before the Chamber of Deputies, including a sub-legal standard that will explain the details. I have already had discussions in the galleys about what specific comments we have on this. Most of them have already been heard, I'm not going back to that. So I welcome this discussion on the Economic Committee, even in a short time, and I will certainly be very actively discussing it. Because if these things don't clear up and we don't make clear the rules there, it's really gonna be an instrument that doesn't keep up with the explanatory statement that the petitioners have presented. Neither in terms of speeding up nor in terms of the costs mentioned there. And I feel like eventually there's going to be 16 times as much speculation all over this place, regardless of the bonita. And it's going to be a completely natural reaction from landowners, whether it's a state buyout or another buyout. And I fear that it will be very serious for agricultural and forestry land, just as it has always been, when we have discussed any form of law on speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u37	I thank Mr Šidl. This is the Minister, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. By trying to respond to all the comments and suggestions, it is probably obvious how much I am trying to fight for this law, which I think can really help and the public will see it very positively. I cannot influence how the press has been presented to you. I tried to go through the instructions of the Minister of Transport and the financial table in detail last week, and I'm sorry you couldn't get acquainted with it through your clubs, but I don't want to comment here. [[15.10 hours]] As regards Mr Kučera's speech to the ODS Member. He used one beautiful tablet. He used a table where the price of agricultural land is 35 and used a maximum multiple, 16 times, which is an example case. I would just like to point out that transport routes do not lead in 99 percent on agricultural land. And this is where we're really talking about petty property in private ownership. With regard to any speculation that landowners will automatically wait 16 times. Of course they can. We offer them a limited multiple and in time, and if they don't accept it, we still have an expropriation institute, and we're not afraid to use such an institute at all. All we care about is not using it in hundreds of cases, but perhaps uniquely or in tens at most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u39	Yes. Mr Kučera, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u40	I'm just very briefly for the Minister of Transport. I'm a TOP 09 MP, and I'm very proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for the information. Furthermore, I do not have an application for a general debate. I troufnout say that the proposal for a shortening fell in it if Mr Laudát does not want to repeat it again, but he said so. We have all noted that Mr Laudát has proposed a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions to 20 days. That concludes the general debate. Since the veto was submitted for discussion under Section 90, we will proceed as standard. So we will discuss this on the assumption that neither the Minister nor the rapporteur wants the final word... [[He does.]] So I will give the rapporteur the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u42	I'm in the final word now... In fact, it will not be the word of the rapporteur, but a member of Martin Kolovratník. Already fell here from my colleague Laudát's proposal to shorten -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u43	I'm afraid we can't do this. You can only speak as the rapporteur with the final word. As an MP, Martin Kolovratník, you should have joined the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u44	Okay. I expected there to be a more detailed debate. Never mind, I'm fixing myself and I'm ending the sentence. I'll just recap. A reduction of the deadline to 20 days has been requested. As rapporteur of this law, I am intercede for voting this time limit and, at the same time, I dare ask that this matter be not directed to other than the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u46	I would also like to add a shorter period of 20 days to the amendment as the bring forwarder of that law, and this law has been discussed by the Parliament's Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. So the Minister as the plaintiff agrees to shorten the deadline to 20 days. So we will consider the draft of the commandment. There is a motion for a commandment to the Economic Committee. I didn't notice any other suggestion. I have merely noted the requests to be merely an economic committee. So if no one else is suggesting anything else, we will vote on the Commandment of the Economic Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 3, registered 170, for 145, against no one. This proposal was adopted. So we have ordered this press to the Committee of Economics. We will now vote on a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 20 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 4, registered is 171, for 148, versus 2. This proposal has also been adopted and the deadline has been shortened. I thank both the Minister and the rapporteur. I note that this has exhausted the programme set out for the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so the 9th meeting is over. Please note that in ten minutes plus minus... [[with a smile]] No, the 8:00 meeting will continue in ten minutes. And I'm asking the club presidents, please, the club presidents, to come up here, and we'll talk about what to do. [[repeats with regard to noise and Members rising from benches]]
