ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-003-086.u1	86. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the rámcový Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Mongolia, on the other, signed in Ulánbatar on 30 April 2013 /German press 227/ - first reading I ask the Minister for his opening word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-003-086.u2	Thank you, too. So here is the third and last draft of the Treaty in this series, which also concerns the partnership and cooperation of the European Union. This time, Mongolia is the country. You know that between the Czech Republic and Mongolia there is a fairly significant tradition of past relationships. I would remind you that we were still building a rather significant part of the Mongolian industrial base back then. Also after 1990, when Mongolia began to build a democratic society with a market economy compared to Vietnam, Mongolia was and is still among the five main priorities of the Czech Republic's development aid, so the relatively significant engagement of the Czech Republic in Mongolia continued as Mongolia became a priority country of development aid. And if I take this quite large Czech investment in the past in the construction of industry and in the area of development, unfortunately I have to say that we have not been able to establish a normal trade. There I think trade doesn't match the level of relations between the two countries or the tradition, the past. We haven't been able to do that for reasons we don't have time to debate here right now. So if I were to recommend this contract, I would also recommend it because it could be a step towards doing something about the situation. Because the European Union is an important partner for Mongolia. For Mongolia, he is the third largest business partner ever. At present, however, the activity of various companies in Mongolia is high. There is a very significant activity of the USA, Japan, Canada, so there is relatively strong competition. I think it is important that the European Union is trying to create the best conditions for relations in various areas, and that this Treaty here could give rise to this. I think it is clear to the Czech Republic that we should support this treaty and use their base to perhaps catch up on what we have not managed so far in Mongolia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-003-086.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please the rapporteur, Robin Böhnisch, to take up his intelligence report. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-003-086.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The minister spoke mostly of the past. I'm gonna touch the contract here and the current state of affairs. There is still no legal framework between the Union and Mongolia for the conduct of political dialogue, and it wants to intensify the Union and this agreement. At the same time, Mongolia continues to show interest in greater attention from the Union. This agreement supports bilateral, regional and international cooperation and forms the basis for more effective cooperation between the European Union, its Member States and Mongolia in the area of trade and investment, justice, freedom and security, and includes a number of other areas. The position of the Czech Republic, as the Minister said, was positive from the beginning due to the historical ties of Czechoslovakia, the Czech Republic and Mongolia. Czech companies in Mongolia traditionally operate in the field of transport, mining industry, health, energy and exploration of mineral resources, but certainly not to a sufficient or desirable extent. Research and extraction of raw materials, energy, development of agriculture, transport infrastructure, ecology, tourism and regional development are among the main forward-looking areas of future cooperation. The content of the agreement is in accordance with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic. I therefore recommend that the press be forwarded to the second reading and discussion in the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-003-086.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed in the Foreign Committee, the rapporteur proposes the same. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. We will therefore only vote on this proposal. I've initiated a 90-order vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 90, from 153 in favour of 141, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you, and I'm done with point 86. Before we go any further, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Roman Procházka apologizes for today's work. We'll continue with point number
