ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-026-007.u1	7. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Polčák, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 82/1998 Coll., on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration and on amendment of the law of the Czech National Council No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities (notary order), as amended /house print 23/ - second reading I ask that Mr Stanislav Polčák, who is not present, take the position at the rapporteur's table as the appellant. I ask that Mr. František Laudát take his place instead. And the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Chvojka. We have suspended this item on Tuesday, 29 April, until Tuesday, 6 May, pending the submission of a resolution by the Supervisory Committee. The resolution of the Supervisory Committee was delivered as a House press 23/4. I therefore now ask the rapporteur of Mr Štěpán Stupčuk's Supervisory Committee to inform us about the committee's deliberations. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-026-007.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Supervisory Committee of its 6th meeting of 30 April 2014. To this end, I would like to inform you that the inspection committee approved the bill in question, in other words, recommended the House plenary to approve it in the proposed text. At the same time, I would like to explain the delay as to why the inspection committee was meeting until 30 April. As part of the current bill, we asked the representative of the Ministry of Justice to provide us with numerical statistics on how much compensation is paid each year only in the Gesture of the Ministry of Justice on compensation and how much is the regression payment, which then represents a remuneration for the State. The information is quite serious because the Ministry of Justice statistics show that only four percent represents a regression compensation, which then returns to the state budget. So this is undoubtedly a rather serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-026-007.u3	Thank you, Mr Stupčuk. The debate was not held on Tuesday 29. 4. open, so I am opening a general debate to which Mr Hovorka is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-026-007.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I just want to briefly comment on what has been said about the Justice Department. We have been informed that the law gives the State the opportunity to request from official persons involved in the issuance of an illegal decision or in maladministration, in connection with which it paid compensation for damages, so-called. regression compensation, share of the damage caused. During 2013, the Ministry of Justice made this claim in 13 cases. In total, it is now seeking a regression compensation in 27 cases, of which 2 after the person judge, 12 after the court officials, 1 after the police officer, 2 after the notaries and 10 after the person executor. The total value of the recovery refunds now recovered is 3.5 million. Crowns. The ratio of the regression compensation applied could appear to be low compared to the total amount of compensation claims satisfied. This is, however, due to the difference between the objective nature of the State's liability - the liability for the outcome, regardless of the fault of the State's authorities - and the subjective nature of the liability of the official persons who are required to pay a regression compensation only if they can be shown a specific and guilty breach of the obligation. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, if the title of responsibility in respect of which the State has paid compensation for the activities of the judge lies, it is possible to apply for a regression compensation only if the judge is found to be the judge responsible. But in the case of judges, there is a problem, because in the relevant section of the Law on Judges and Judges, in Section 89, it is said that the loss of disciplinary liability is as follows: liability of the judge and the President of the Court, Vice-President of the Court, President of the College of the Supreme Court or Supreme Administrative Court for disciplinary misconduct is no more, unless, within three years of their commission, an application has been made for the initiation of disciplinary proceedings. Most of the time, this time limit makes replacements unenforceable, because they are limited. So if this proposal, which is submitted, would have a greater impact in the Ministry of Justice, then it would probably have to be deleted in the law on courts and judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-026-007.u5	I thank Mr Hovorka. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. Initiating a detailed debate, in which also... [[The rapporteur Chvojka makes something clear from the news table outside the microphone with the President.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee to inform us of the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee when he demands it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-026-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We've been having a bit of a long-distance argument here with the fact that I feel that, as rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I should get to know plenary with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Constitutional Committee discussed this press at its meeting on 9 April, stating that it did not give a resolution on this press. The debate was very lively, but the vote was seven to seven, so the constitutional committee did not recommend or recommend, so there is no resolution of the constitutional committee. However, as rapporteur, if I may say so, I support this press. As I said at first reading, the official should be responsible for the misconduct he makes within his official post. The judge should also be responsible. Of course, the D.A. should be responsible, too. It's a matter of broader debate. However, my previous speaker was right. Of the 100 percent of the cases, according to the statistics, some 5-6 percent are recovered, which I think is a trieste number, and it should definitely be larger. So hopefully this law will help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-026-007.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the constitutional committee. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. They're not. I therefore end second reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the representatives of the appellants. Now the very last point of today's negotiations is
