ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u1	18. Members of František Adámek, Štěpán Stupčuk, Jiří Koskuba, Jaroslav Zavadil and others for the issue of the law amending Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital of Prague, as amended, Act No. 130/2000 Coll., on elections to regional councils and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 491/2001 Coll., on elections to municipal councils and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 124/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. [[14.40 hours]] We received the Government's position as House Press 124/1. I now ask that Mr František Adámek present the proposal as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u2	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, on behalf of a large group of Members representing most of the parties to this House, I present to you a proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Capital City of Prague and other related laws on regional elections and the Municipal Elections Act. The legislative and factual analysis, as well as the main reasons, is in the explanatory memorandum. Here, let me mention only the most important thing. The main purpose of the proposed, basically very simple amendments is to bring order and order into the electoral system in Prague. I must stress, however, that the February unanimous resolution of the Prague City Representative supports this change. The Prague Council itself established the number of members of the Board of Directors 65 for the next parliamentary term, which is a number which is consistent with the number of members of regional councils. It also decided that Prague would form one constituency. The situation in Prague has so far been very chaotic and has mainly increased the inequality of competition between political parties. If I do not count the first free elections in 1990, Prague's elections were accompanied by magical lines, manipulations involving in sophisticated mathematical samples election preferences and party strength in individual electoral districts, the number of members of the council and tactics in the territorial definition of electoral districts and the number of mandates per circuit. And so the party election crews were born decisions always according to the current strength and the greatest electoral advantages of the strongest player. The number of members in the above-floor elections ranged from 55 to 63 to 70 representatives. Number of electoral circuits from one to ten. Circuits were sometimes five-mandates, sometimes six- or nine-mandates. There were even different numbers of mandates for the circuit in one election. Circuit boundaries were designed and always differently - depending on the chances of the lead party to succeed. Every housing estate was counted, almost every street. The poor were voters in some border districts: once they voted in one constituency, sometimes for incomprehensible reasons in another. The constitutionalization of electoral circuits had logic - the logic of electoral numbers, the calculus of various past elections and pre-election surveys. And so in one electoral district was historical Prague 1 and marginal Nebušice with Prevní Kopanina, sometimes they met again in one electoral district Žižkovský Pepík with a peasant from Nedvěz. Election calculations have also become an instrument for shutting down small political parties. The five percent closing clause in this system actually rose to nine, sometimes eleven percent in real life. According to the opinions of the Constitutional Court, these figures used to be even higher. Yes, such were the elections in Prague. Our proposal wants to stabilise the electoral situation in Prague. From the current will to determine the number of members of the council in the range of 55 to 70 members, we propose the number of 65, as the other regions have. As far as one constituency is concerned, it concerns exactly the same thing. I would just like to remind you that elections have so far been held in Prague under the Act on elections to municipal councils, where it is established that the municipality is one constituency. Prague, like some other statutory cities, had the opportunity to determine the electoral districts. I also recall that according to constitutional law No. 347/1997 Coll., on the creation of higher local authorities, the Czech Republic has 14 regions. According to this constitutional law, the capital city of Prague is one of these 14 regions. Therefore, in the draft law on elections to regional councils in 1999, on the basis of a proposal from the President of the then Legislative Council of the Government and today's President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Pavel Rychetský, a draft law was submitted, according to which the Act on elections to regional councils would be elected in Prague at the same time as in other regions of the Republic. At this time in Prague, the council was elected in 1998 according to municipal elections, and so the newly established opposition coalition government ODS and ČSSD assessed that it could lose Prague in the regional elections in 2000 and was approved by a special law on Prague, where it was said that the council elected in municipal elections two years ago was considered a regional council. However, on the other hand, Prague was paid 250 000 to the representative, which applies to the regions, not to the municipalities. As you can see, Prague has always been a handy choice. When it came in handy, she was a county, sometimes a community. In the number of members of the council of 65 and in one constituency we unite Prague elections with regional elections. In this we are one with current Prague representatives. We have to unify the term of the election. That will, by the way, be the subject of the following press 125. This may put an end to the end to the end of arguing with disgruntled voters and confronting the efforts of citizens' initiatives and criticism from small parties. They are all right to challenge the opaque and manipulativeness of the Prague elections. We'll give all the election parties an equal opportunity. We will also stop the avalanche of lawsuits and lawsuits for elections in Prague. We will prevent future possible undignified electoral alchemy worthy of only a charlatan and cheater, the famous master Kelly. The proposal by a large group of Members is a thoughtful and long-term intention. It was first filed in 2011. But he was rejected at first reading by the votes of the then government coalition ODS, TOP 09, Public Affairs with the words that they have nothing against this law, but they will do a comprehensive adjustment of electoral systems throughout the Czech Republic and submit a comprehensive electoral code. Unfortunately, this adjustment did not take place. The second time, when the proposal was submitted, it happened in 2013, that the term of office of the last Chamber of Deputies had been terminated prematurely, so the law was not discussed. I hope he doesn't have that bad luck today. Our proposal is not contrary to the government's position. It is related to our second proposal, the draft constitutional law for a one-time reduction in the electoral term in the capital city of Prague. I think it's obvious and it's not confusing how future elections would be held this year. They would be held at the time the municipal authorities are planning to run for this year, at a time for which all the political actors who intend to run for office are preparing themselves at the moment. And the term is clear to the voters. For the next parliamentary term, the term of the elections will be linked to whether we will also approve the Constitutional Act on the reduction of the parliamentary term. If so, the election will be two years from now, because that would be a clear law. Then the electoral cycle will be the same as the regionals. If not, four years from now. That too is understandable, and it's not confusing. As regards the change in the compatibility of a member of the Prague Council with other positions or the possibility of submitting candidates only to registered political parties, then the Government's comment is correct and our proposal addresses this. It unites these conditions with the conditions of other regions. There is no reason for Prague to have an exception. Not entirely can we identify with a single reminder from the government that the proposed effectiveness is not justified by an urgent general interest. Dear colleagues, I can hardly imagine more general interest than elections. It is this law that highlights this urgency. There is no mechanism other than a legal mechanism that could anchor the urgency of the general interest. [[14.50 hours]] With regard to the compatibility of the right of EU citizens to be elected following the duration of their permanent stay, I merely recall once again that this amendment unites the regulation with the analogy of the Regional Elections Act. We do not reduce Prague to just a region by our decision, as my colleague Svoboda and others said during the meeting in the Prague Council. Prague remains all the conveniences and peculiarities that result from Prague being the capital and our precious metropolis and that its specific functions are different from other cities. Our proposal does not call into question that Prague is a unique homogeneous whole. We're just gonna end the possible election scams. Politics and elections in Prague will be defined by a clear playground, a playground always the same as my colleague Svoboda said, and clearly deflected. Prague's representatives will be able to be closer to their constituents. There is no distinction between Prague and other regions. Prague will continue to fulfil both inseparable roles, the role of the region and the community. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a simple change ahead of us, which will prevent universal electoral manipulation in Prague. It's a type-of-fall change. It may even be disadvantageous for someone, for some parties, but it is necessary to change. Our proposal is in line with constitutional order and international obligations. This change will not disappear Prague as a term, as a representative of this country. It will not disappear in the fall of history, as my colleague Svoboda expressed his concerns. On the contrary, Prague will figuratively become a town cleaner, clearer, more upright and stronger. Finally, as the Vice-President has said, I would like to ask you pursuant to Paragraph 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u3	I thank the appellant and I now ask that the rapporteur of this press, Mr Klán, approach the microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to my news report on the House of Press 124, the amendment to the Act on the capital city of Prague, the elections to regional councils and the elections to municipal councils. As the petitioner has already said, the reason for submitting this amendment is to change the way in which members are elected The representative of the capital city of Prague to be elected under Act No.130/2000 Coll., on elections to regional councils and on the amendment of certain laws. Elections to The representative offices of the capital city of Prague are held according to the Act on Elections to Municipalities, although from the effectiveness of constitutional law number 347 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u5	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt you like this, but I'm asking all my colleagues to keep their voices down so we don't have to shout. If you have any urgent negotiations, please act outside this O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u6	Thank you. I'll say it again. Elections to the representativeship of the capital city of Prague are held according to the Act on Elections to Municipal Representatives, although since the effectiveness of the Constitutional Act No. 347/1997 Coll., on the creation of higher local authorities, the capital city of Prague is also a higher local authority. Goodbye. It shows that the political parties receive a contribution for the mandate of the elected representative, although this contribution does not exist in municipal councils. The draft amendment of three laws wants to change this practice so that the representativeship of the capital city of Prague is elected under the Act on elections to regional councils. This would mean the end of the speculative distribution of Prague into multiple circuits and the calculation of the advantage of determining the number of members of the council according to the ruling party or parties. The designers recommend setting the number of members of the Prague City Representation to 65. The number of members of the council is determined by the members of the councils. large regions. By unifying the term of the elections to the regions and to the Prague City Representation, the House Press 125 will then be dealt with as follows. The draft constitutional law proposes a shortening of the term of office of members of the Prague City of Prague elected in this year's 2014 election for a period of two years. At its meeting on 17 March 2014, the Government took a neutral position on this bill, considering that the main problem of the proposal was not a clear timetable for the proposed changes in the election regime for the Prague City Council. According to the government, it is not clear according to which election rules - municipal or regional - will be held by elections to the Representation of the capital city of Prague, which should take place in the autumn of this year. However, this bill may have a positive effect on the absence of manipulation of Prague's division into more electoral districts and weakening the representation of parties with lower electoral results. In the past elections, only four political parties entered the Prague City Representation. The representatives did not have parties that crossed the overall 5% threshold, but did not reach the terms of reference when recounting in individual territories. Since this bill has found agreement across the political spectrum, I suggest that the bill be referred to further discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u7	I thank the rapporteur and here I have an application with factual - or with priority rights? With priority rights, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u8	Thank you for the floor. When I was in primary school, I learned that the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic has a capital called Prague. And the proponents of this law tell us it's a county. I am surprised by the little confidence in Prague's representative democracy. Any other municipality under the Municipalities Act can determine the number of representatives according to the size. Even according to the Municipalities Act, another city or other municipality can divide its constituency into several parts and it is happening. If I have the right information, at this point, the representative of the capital city of Prague has decided that there will be one constituency. I don't know what we're dealing with. I think the debate might be, or I'll speak to the next law, I don't know what the real motives of the petitioners are. I think it's political. That he's excited if things don't work out now, in two years it's gonna turn around and they're gonna get to it. What is the logic that a citizen like Prague 1, when we are in Prague 1, will choose the composition of the city council in a certain year and in two years will choose the composition of the Prague City Representation? I'm totally missing the logic. The fact that Prague and the region are at this moment is due to some political decision. The decision may not be valid, it may be shorter than we think. The regions were introduced, disturbed, introduced, etc., while Prague was a city, it is and will remain. All the arguments that have been made seem pointless to me, and someone wants to solve their political problem from the communal level by law. I really don't understand. I think also the next point, i.e. shortening the term is at least on the verge of constitutionality, and I would recommend that the representatives do not do so to withdraw their proposal. What is the difference between Prague and Ostrava? I'm from Moravian-Silesian County. That Ostrava can determine the number of representatives and Prague can't? What is the difference between Prague and Opava, where I was the mayor of two parliamentary periods, where we have the right to divide our statutory city into electoral districts, and in Prague it is not possible by law? If you took it normally, at the same time, there was an amendment to the Municipalities Act, and the same prohibition, for example, to establish the number of members of the council, you would also propose in all other municipalities. If you were serious about this for everyone, you would set the number of members of the council by law taxatively for all municipalities. You're dealing with one single city here, even if it's a capital city. And I don't know what that's gonna lead to. Very often here from the microphone many of us - notice that I am not saying from you, but from among us - say how shocked citizens' confidence in politics, how unstable the political system is, how we have a lot of types of elections, how they are actually elected. Then the government complains: there is nothing we can do now, because now this election, this election, and in the meantime, the term of office will expire. [[15.00 hours]] You want to completely illogically break the system of self-government in the capital city of Prague. And you didn't make a proper argument except that somebody ever used the applicable legislation, maybe unfortunately, I don't live here, maybe accidentally divided the city into seven circuits. I think it is very impractical for the candidate parties to look for seven leaders than one leader, etc. Moreover, you solved the problem at the Prague level, so please do not burden us with it and do not make Prague any other case of self-government than elsewhere. Or do you think the government can do it elsewhere, divide the city into circuits, set up a number of representatives, and not here, this is where the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate have to do it to determine it by law? I really don't think so. The idea that we have municipal elections, we turn to citizens: come, choose your mayor or mayor, you have municipal elections, and it applies throughout the state, only in Prague, it seems really unbelievable to me. And try to tell me how you're going to explain this to the voters, that they can choose the mayor of Prague 1 and they can't choose the mayor of Prague or the potential mayor of Prague 1 and the potential mayor of Prague at the same time. So I formally propose to reject this law at first reading and expect a rather rich discussion. And from those who think that's a good thing, I'd like to hear the answer to those questions about why we should vote in Prague 1, when we're in the Lesser Town, in a different year than the Representation of the Czech Republic. m. Prague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u9	Ambassador, please stay with the speaker's counter, because I have not yet formally opened a general debate. Then you'll read it, yes, okay. So I hereby open a general debate in which I have Mrs Fischerová, Mr Svoboda, Mr Koubek, Mr Benda and Mr Laudát. Please, to the speaker's counter, Mrs Fischerová. You don't have to run, we wait. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u10	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous speaker, Mr Stanjura, said many things from the heart, which I have in a slightly different sense, but we will meet in the end as well. So let me put this quite briefly, I suppose. Although I'm not from Prague, I'm from Vysočina and I'm proud of it, so I have to say that Prague like Praga caput regni, although the Latin name is different now, I'm very fond of it. Since 1874 it was called the capital, it was the royal capital, and since 1920 it has been the capital of Prague. He's been wearing that name ever since. And I confess that I really talked to people from the authorities of Prague, from individual parts, and that was beneficial for me, that I had some opinion about it and I have a view of this. Prague has already agreed, as discussed at the Prague City Council in February, because it is entitled under the law that it can say how many representatives it will have. This has been approved since the February meeting of the council, i.e. the 65 members of the Representation hl. m. Prague. That said, there's going to be one constituency, so that's what's going on. Isn't that right? And that is why I think that the other context of this, especially with the following point, is the House press 125, it is a constitutional law, so there is the question of how long it will apply. This has also already been said that the following elections would have to be in two years' time, and it is very complicated when, after two years, citizens would have gone back to the elections. It's a two-way street, a question of subsidies, redistribution. So that's what I wanted to express this personal view of myself. I also discussed this with colleagues from Slovakia. I know that just today, yesterday, there is a delegation from Slovakia, and we in the Public Administration Committee have discussed various aspects, because we have history in common, and sometimes those laws can be similar. In Slovakia they also choose the capital of Slovakia Bratislava according to the Act on elections to municipal councils. There it is, so also the dorm that is in Slovakia, I think in this case I would not go about changing it. I say, as long as the wheel spins, I don't put my hands in it. And the wheel is really spinning. It's for the capital city of Prague, I think, now after the resolution of the Embassies hl. m. Prague thing, which is already approved. Ladies and gentlemen, as we sit here, even though there aren't many of us, I think we should really consider this very well before we change anything. On behalf of the two ODS and TOP 09 MPs, I object to the procedure under Section 90 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you and really - please think wisely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u11	Thank you, Madame. We're recording the veto of two clubs and we're going to continue according to the standard scenario. Now, I ask you to approach the microphone another logged in, and this is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u12	Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, the law on the capital city of Prague is a law that is functional and works. At this point, we have a resolution from the council that we have decided that 65 representatives will be elected and that there will be one constituency. There's nothing this House has to deal with. At this point, the House is about to address the fact that the capital city of Prague is not a capital city, but is a region. There is certainly a lot of sentiment, but I am convinced that each country should respect its capital and must perceive it as something extremely symbolic. This is also the reason why, by law, the capital city of Prague is a city and at the same time received some kind of regional status. If we change that law, we're gonna have to change a whole bunch of things. Among other things, I ask how it will be if Prague becomes a region, whether it will have a regional governor as well as Ústí and if we will also vote for the mayor, because Ústí nad Labem also has a mayor in addition to the regional governor, as well as Plzeň. Just as I wonder if Prague will receive regional money like other regions, if it will be remembered in the budget whether the budget allocation will count on Prague being entitled to regional money, which, I warn you, is not receiving at the moment. I also ask if the capital of Prague will cope with the fact that it will vote every two years. From the status of the capital city of Prague, money to individual parts of the city follows the path of the capital city of Prague, the path of the council. This means that every two years we change the relationship between the capital city of Prague and the council, every two years we decide what the next economic development of the urban areas will be. Can anyone imagine such management, such planning? Every two years, change it and do it all over again? I do not want to talk at all about the fact that, of course, elections mean an enormous economic burden for the city and that, of course, they mean that everything positive in that city will stop for at least six months. We know that when there is a four-year cycle, that in that first year, the newly elected ones are getting acquainted with something, in the second and possibly a part of the third year, they do something positive, and in the last year, they're just fighting in the election competition. [[15.10 hours]] We will never work in Prague. We're gonna have a permanent election, we're not gonna know what we're looking at for four years, not two years - we're not gonna know what we're looking at for one year. Do you think the city can manage like this? Do you think that the capital of Prague, which has a number of other obligations, can manage like this? All the authorities are here, all the prosecutors are here, all the state visits. It is a matter that needs truly long-term uniform systematic management and leadership. And now, based on some political order, we're gonna change the law that works, we're gonna change something that says we're just like other European and world countries, we're countries, we've got a name and we've got a capital. Believe me, it's not easy for me to say this, but if we made that decision, I'd be ashamed to be an MP!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. Before I invite Mr Koubek to the microphone, please, Mr Stanjura, with a factual view. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u14	I would only ask the petitioners one question through you. It was started by my previous speaker, Mr. fellow Member of the Parliament of Svoboda. After all, it is not possible to leave the budgetary determination of taxes as it is at the moment if the proposed amendment passes through you. Because the main source of income for Prague is as a city according to the budgetary determination of taxes, and not as a region. We, who have been very difficult here in the last parliamentary term to discuss the change in the budgetary determination of taxes, know how difficult these debates have been, how each municipality or city of a certain size has, of course, arguments as to why, in this size of the municipality, the single pie of shared taxes is to be added. Obviously, somebody's just messing with the electoral system. So is Prague a city or a county? You want it to be voted by the county, but you want it to be taken as a city. There's no logic to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u15	Thank you. Now, please, to the mike of the MP... Okay. Mr Stupčuk, the real Mr. Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u16	I will try to respond to Mr Stanjura's words through you. Of course Prague isn't a county and no one ever said so. Prague has a statute from the Constitution and according to the constitutional law of higher local authorities of a higher local authority. And it's different from all the cities you've named, for example, the Ostrava. And the analogy with the region, it is given only by the fact that Prague, through its magistrate, simultaneously exercises the jurisdiction of the regional office as other regions. And that's the match with the county. But no one claims that Prague is a county. It is a higher territorially self-governing whole. And what we are trying to do here by this law is unify the electoral cycle with the other higher local authorities, which is Prague plus the listed regions. So please, let's distinguish this and not have this. And, of course, the argument about achieving transparency by eliminating in the future the kind of electoral arithmetic that one side is slipping to, the other day, it's fitting. We want a transparent, clear electoral system in the future, as is true in other regions. Everything for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u17	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Stanjura, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u18	I want to thank you for the unsolicited training. I didn't hear anything new. I know, of course, that Prague performs certain functions of the region. However, in your submission, Prague is more a region than a city, because you want it to vote during the regional elections, which means that the citizens of Prague choose the governor and not the mayor. That's just the way it is. You didn't answer the question about money at all, because you know very well that if you were to see that Prague is more of a region, and therefore you want to unite elections for the citizens of the regions, Prague is more of a city for me, and I want the citizens to have one term when they elect their representatives of the city or urban areas. That means I won't fight you. All I'm saying is that Prague is much more a city than a county, that being a county is a transitional matter. I think it would be a good idea if we shut down the county altogether. First, we would lighten the debate about the capital city of Prague and save ourselves an incredible number of officials, buildings and everything else. Who was at the formation of the regions in 2000 or at the end of 2000 and will look at the number of officials today, who will look at the reason reports when the regions were created, where the estimates were on the number of officials and the number of buildings, and compare it with today, and I want to say that all the political parties in the leadership of the region took turns there, so it's not... I'm talking about my collegiates and your political ones. From the logic of things, those regions swelled up. What a smiling story. I was wondering why we had three seats in the county council. I know how many cities there were. [[unintelligible]] But it turns out it's three more than it needs to be. Because it's rarely the county itself is discussing something that a particular citizen is interested in. On the other hand, the City of Prague's representative is attending because it is a specific matter that is being discussed there. Compare the number of points you are discussing at the Prague City Council in the competence of the city and in the competence of the region. Compare the scope of self-government in the competence of the city and in the competence of the region and you will clearly answer whether Prague is more of a city or a region. But we can answer that the capital of the Czech Republic is the Region of Prague. Sure, if you want. I'm not gonna say it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u19	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit. I now have Mrs Semel with the actual Mrs Semelová, then Mr Stupčuk with the de facto. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u20	Thank you, Madam President. There is no way I would want to put other cities against Prague. I think it is not in the interest of Prague or the whole Czech Republic. However, it has been said here by colleague Stanjura that he is surprised by the distrust that the Pražák people have or that the Members who submit this law have. I would like to say that if he lived in the capital of Prague, he wouldn't be surprised by the mistrust, because we just have the experience of manipulating and special-purpose distribution into electoral circuits, depending on who it suits. And if I'm hearing opinions from the ODS officials here about how we would save or about managing in Prague, about wasting money, then don't be mad at me, but from this very side, when I take the government in Prague over the last few years, it sounds a little smiling, if we remember different tunnels, and I don't just think of Blanka. I would like to say that the division into the electoral districts that are taking place here in Prague harms small political parties, among other things, that it is simply on a political order, and remember, my fellow Members, that in the future it can also damage a party that was still big until recently, or thought it was. Otherwise, I admit that there are some questions here that have their logic. Let us go through this law for second reading and discuss these matters in committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u21	Thank you, ma'am. And now with Mr Stupčuk in fact, then with Mr Adámek in fact and then Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u22	I would like to assure President Stanjura that this law does not in principle change the position of Prague. Only the voting mechanism for the capital city of Prague is changing here. This has nothing to do with the question of whether Prague will remain a capital city or be a region or be a higher local authority. Its position remains preserved. So much changes only the way to choose. Yes, we can stay in the existing system, or we can vote according to the regional system. And we just think the county system is better. I think the argument is quite logical, that it is quite comprehensive. And again, Prague is in its own way different from other cities. It is not only because it is the capital, as you rightly argue, but also because there is an analogy with the regions where Prague exercises competence in a number of cases, or in all cases, the regional authority, whether it is in the delegated administration, or whether it is directly the performance of the state administration. And in that sense, I think that the argument that we are making is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u23	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the limit, and I am now asking Mr Adámek to do so. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u24	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Stupčuk. I have noted here on the basis of a few, three, four colleagues, from ODS mostly, a few notes. I'd take the liberty of characterizing it. Sorry about the cart, you guys, about the goat. Don't be mad at me. You're emotional here, and that's what my colleague Stupčuk said. After all, we do not touch the law on the capital city of Prague. Nothing changes there. You can tell me, after all, the TOP 09, which, I understand, is going to support you in these opinions, has co-signed under a constitutional complaint in 2010, when small parties complained about seven electoral districts. I'm just gonna remind you of the 2010 Constitutional Court find. There was a rumor at the time, and the Constitutional Court stated that although there was no breach of the law, there was an obvious manipulation of the law on municipal elections. And we don't want to change anything. We just want the elections not to be decided - and for our colleague Fischerová through the Vice-President, sorry that the council has now decided, it is okay that this is what it has decided. But the next council can make a completely different decision. And he'll need five constituencies and 70 deputies, so he'll do it. And that's not what it's about. So here we have some 374 law on higher territorial administrative units, which says that Prague is a region, and we just want to vote and obey the laws. And allow the party that gets 11 percent to get into the council. And it is not that the mathematical formula that has prepared and calculated, and after all, you all know it very well, as it happened before, I have been a representative of the capital of Prague since 2004, so please do not lecture me, through the Vice-President, how it goes in Prague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u25	I thank the Member for his time, and now I am asking Mr Svoboda, Mr Stanjura and Mr Laudát. Please note that a written or electronic application, with a factual priority, takes precedence. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u26	Thank you. Let me tell the translator through you: Yes, we are talking about the goat and you are talking about the cart. At this point, I don't care how many deputies there are and how many deputies there are. I am interested in the fact that the amendment to the electoral law on Prague is part of this proposal and that Prague will vote every two years. Once in a county, once in a general way. That's what I'm interested in. And I ask, when I hear it, all the opinions that are, so I ask: cui prodest? Who's it good for? Which of these will be Prague, which will this Republic receive from it, that it will vote for regional elections in Prague and that Prague will be a region? Prague doesn't get anything because it doesn't get a regional governor, it doesn't get regional money - it only gets other costs, which it will pay from its own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u27	I thank the honourable Member for respecting the time limit, and I am now asking Mr Stanjura's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u28	I would like to agree with what Mr Adámek said. This council will decide otherwise and maybe the next one will decide otherwise. This is called self-government and democratic decision-making. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u29	Thank you. Please contact Mr Laudát's microphone with a factual view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u30	děkovat you, Mr. Vice-President. I just wanted to say technically that TOP 09 didn't join the constitutional complaint. We liked the Constitutional Court to discuss the matter, so it had our support, but we did not join it, because the law, in my opinion, was quite clear. Another thing was, and there were Social Democrats, we weren't at the town hall at the time, when decisions were made about the incredible shapeshifters that were in Prague. I would, however, give a basic proposal, waiting here in the hall of the Mayor of Prague, to allow him to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u31	Once again, I ask - do you want to vote on the proposal so that the mayor can attend the meeting? [[Member of the Laudat: so he can get off.]] Get out. In that case, we must vote on this proposal in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Before we do so, if you will allow me, I would like to draw up factual remarks and then we would vote on this proposal and then we would continue the general debate if this is the case. So, please, with Mr Adámek's actual facts. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u32	I apologize to all the outsiders and all those who do not participate in this debate that I often perform and so often I will perform. Because I just, I'm sorry, I hate demagogy. And what's being shown here is just, whether he's mad at me or not, the demagogy of the roughest grain. Again, perhaps for some of us everything is absolutely clear. So I ask why some people were wearing candidates at the time of the regional elections. The former mayor, through the Vice-President, will surely give me a real hand, even though he wasn't there at the time, and want to vote for the regional elections? Why do we burden people with these sails? Why are we complaining that people are slowly refusing to vote? Why don't we clear it up for them? Why can't they vote so, and the law assumes that, apart from the fact that in 2002, the council declared itself a regional council in 2002 to be elected by the law on the capital city of Prague, as I have said, according to municipal elections. And a little more point. Here it was said: The wheel is spinning. Yes, the wheel is spinning. And so I have different ideas than what has been said here that this is the democracy that is going to decide. I just don't think it's right to make decisions the way I want them to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u33	Thank you, Mr Koubek, and another Mr Koubek, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak to this point, but now to these large sails that Mr Adámek has put here, I will also speak to that point. But when he said why we don't make this election more friendly, or what kind of expression he used, towards the voters, let me just make a simple comparison. I looked at the participation in the regional elections and the participation in the Prague Magistrate elections. Of course, in today's municipal elections to the Prague City Embassies, it is on average much higher in the last four elections. In particular, from 1998 to 2010, the average voter participation was 40 per cent, whereas in the regional elections from 2000 to 2012, it was 35 per cent. So if, Mr Adámek through Madam President, you say you don't like demagogy, then please read the numbers first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u35	I thank the honourable Member and I have one more factual one here, a written one which takes precedence, and this is Mr Novotný with a factual one. And then I will ask Mr Stupčuk's colleague. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u36	Madam President, colleagues, I think it is quite well known that I cannot be suspected of being a Pražák. So I'm going to try a point of view very far away, and I think that no matter what political party I am. For the past few years, I have often wondered how citizens' confidence in our political system is weakened by the fact that we have elections almost every year. People put unwarranted confidence in the fact that when they vote for regional councils, they expect these regions to solve national problems. The moment they vote for city councils, they often want revenge on current political representation at national level. And the system is becoming increasingly complex, more obscure, and gradually distrusts the various levels of political power and self-government in our country. If we make Prague a hybrid again and in her quotes, the regional elections will be expected, because that is how citizens think that the problems that they are experiencing in urban areas will be solved, and vice versa, we will only deepen the chaos. And I think we should all think about how to simplify the political system in our country and make it clear again. If people go to elections every 14 days and expect solutions from institutions that can never solve them, then one day they will lose complete confidence in democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u37	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit. And now I beg you, Mr Stupčuk, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u38	By your means, Madam President, I would like to respond to Mr Koubek's argument. I respect that you do not have to agree with this proposal, fellow Members. That's your sacred right. But please, let's not use a demagogic argument. After all, everyone knows that in Prague there is always a higher electoral turnout for any type of election. It's not just in this case. So I think that's a false argument if you pull out the comparison like that. And why this is so in Prague... Yes, it is because in Prague there is simply a significantly different social stratification of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u39	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Since I no longer have any factual points, we should proceed to the vote on the proposal under Paragraph 52 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 Rules of Procedure on the presence of other persons at the House meeting, in this case Mr Mayor of the capital city of Prague. I am opening the vote on this proposal and asking who is in favour. Against? The vote ends with the adoption of the proposal. (Vote number 49, registered 150, for 90, against 3.) The Chamber of Deputies therefore agrees with the participation of the mayor of the capital city of Prague in discussing this point and I am asking him to enter the hall. I think we can give him the space because he was waiting for me to settle the actual notes. [[Mr Koubek is going for the mayor's hl. m. Prague and after a while it comes to the hall.]] Hello, Mr. Mayor. Allow me to welcome you to the House of Deputies. If you don't mind, there is a general debate. I have Members here - Mr Koubek, then Mr Benda, Mr Laudát. Then we'll give the mayor some room. [[Mr Koubek is reporting for the floor.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u40	Madam Vice-President, I have understood our vote even if the Mayor takes precedence, which I would personally do to any mayor of the capital of Prague from any political party. Now I just don't know how to technically solve this, if we still have to vote on this matter. But I suppose by agreeing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u41	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'm following the Rules of Procedure that doesn't regulate this. And I prefer Members who are duly enrolled. I think the mayor will forgive us, and he'll let the people in the debate speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u42	There. I respect your kind management of our meeting today. [[Laughs especially from the right.]] I'm sure the mayor will forgive me if I don't prefer him. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we're discussing here today. He's got two crucial things. The first thing is that Prague will become one constituency. And I believe that there will be more or less a consensus across here, at least majority. The purpose changes in the previous years culminated in 2010, when Prague was divided into six districts, and this also meant a subsequent constitutional complaint. Just for your understanding, in 1998 Prague was divided into ten circuits, in 2002 into five circuits and thus in 2010 into seven electoral districts. Now, then, the Representation has come to an end. m. Prague has agreed to be one constituency with 65 Members. For myself and for Club TOP 09 I say that if such an adjustment were made, we have no problem with that. We would respect this proposal, and I would like to draw your kind attention to the system with which we all work, and that under the House press 164 -164 - we already have the proposal hl. m. Prague, which would just limit the choice in Prague to one single constituency. It's a press that we don't have submitted on the agenda for this meeting, and it's currently in the commentary on the government. This proposal of the capital city of Prague preserves the nature of Prague as a community - that is what we are talking about here - and at the same time does not shorten the term. It only provides for the amendment of Act No.491/2001 Coll., on elections to municipal councils and on the amendment of certain laws, one constituency for the whole of Prague. The second thing, which is very much here, I would say, controversial and on which I suppose there will be no consensus, at least not majority, is the distribution of the terms of the municipal and regional elections in Prague and the shortening of the electoral term. I am convinced that this division, when Prague would vote every two years, once in the municipal elections and two years later in the so-called. for Prague's Magistrate Elections, as they call it, i.e. to the Representation hl. m. Prague, and the next two years again to municipal, brings a whole range of negatives. And one thing at all is not recorded in this press. What will be the economic benefit? The authors of this press - and allow me to quote: The bill does not place claims on the state budget or on other public budgets. So if we start voting now every two years in Prague, I would like to see the calculation that it has no effect on the other public budgets. I apologize to all the submitters, but I have misunderstood this matter. I would like you to explain to me when the elections take place every four years today and they will now be in full-grown Prague every two years, as it is possible that this will not affect the budget hl. m. Prague. Yes, there are Senate elections every two years, i.e. In some districts of Prague, these Senate elections are linked either to the Magistrates, or thus to the municipal ones, depending on how it would work according to this proposal, but this is how we would vote in the whole of Prague. After all, the Government's position on this matter is quite obvious: it is possible to successfully doubt the possibility of saving personnel, in-kind and financial costs, as well as the fact that the proposed proposal will not create any claims on the state budget or on the budget hl. m. Prague. Thus, however much Members, above all, present a proposal where they say that this will not affect the general budgets, the government's position is quite opposite. The election will be as many as two years, and they will be more expensive. That's what the petitioners kept from us. Let me also mention - and I apologize, if necessary, to Mr. Mayor Hudeček, because I don't know if he will talk about it either. But the system of elections to municipal councils and regional councils is quite different and, in the event of this change, there would be restrictions on both active and passive electoral rights. Let me give you four examples. Today for the election of the Embassy hl. m. Prague can also be voted by citizens of the European Union with permanent residence in Prague. The regional councils do not have this option. So I'm asking myself a question -- while today, for example. Slovák with permanent residence in Prague can vote for the Representation hl. m. Prague, will they not be able to now? I note that this amendment, which will be brought forward by this proposal, is neither a comma nor a letter mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. And I'm asking why. First of all, do we want it? Is it good or is it bad? And why don't the petitioners tell us there's gonna be a change like this? Is it because they don't want to tell us, or because the translators themselves don't know? [[15.40 hours]] Second thing. They will no longer be able to run for election as in other municipalities. Only parties, movements or coalitions will be able to submit candidacy. Again. There is no mention of this in this presentation of the press 124 in the explanatory memorandum. While independent associations, unregistered parties, can run today, they will now not be able to. Do we want it? Don't we want it? Is that a good thing or a bad thing? Why did the petitioners suggest shortening and approving the first reading? Why should we not debate this relatively fundamental matter on, for example, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development? Is it because the petitioners don't know, or are they deliberately keeping it from us? Third thing. It will not be possible to vote across the candidates - that is the sail, because, of course, 65 representatives times the number of running associations, and if you have the right to cross, the ballot is of course large, but as we have heard here, participation is not small, but higher than anywhere in the Republic, whatever the reasons, it means that the Pražans will deal with it. It will no longer be possible to scramble, because the only way to vote in the regional elections is to select one candidate. You can't cross. You're voting for one candidate with a choice, if I'm not mistaken, of four priority votes. Whereas now that we have a large tarp and we have x associations, movements, coalitions, parties, you can choose up to 65 candidates, i.e. the maximum possible number that is set. It is, in turn, a considerable restriction on this right. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? Do we want it? Don't we want it? But why aren't the petitioners talking about it at all? Why did they keep this from us? And why do they not want us to discuss this matter on the committees? And finally the fourth thing, perhaps the least popular, but still worth mentioning, and that is the incompatibility of functions. While the function of a member of the Regional Council is incompatible with, for example, the function of a statutory representative of a legal person established by the Region, this is possible in the case of a municipality. I'll put it into a practical plane. If Prague has an organization - Prague Teplárenská, Pražské vodody and sewerage and so on - then representatives of the capital city of Prague can now sit in the statutory bodies of this company, but the change that this proposal would bring would no longer be possible. Why didn't the petitioners tell us? Why don't you have it in the press? Why didn't they tell us? I don't know if it's a good thing or a bad thing right now, we can have a debate about it. But why is there no mention of it in the press? Why is it all based on the fact that the cycle of choice changes and doesn't have any other influence? As you can see in these four examples - the right to vote for the citizens of the European Union with permanent residence in Prague, the possibility of restricting or narrowing the possibility of running for various associations and independent movements, the limitation of the possibility of procreating and the impossibility of continuating functions are not mentioned at all in this proposal, and therefore I personally consider this bill to be very unprepared. I personally propose rejecting it precisely for these reasons already at first reading. To the nature of Prague. If Prague became a region, what will it mean for the city parts? So will they become communities? Will they have the character of municipalities if Prague no longer has the character of the municipality, but will it be a region? Will this mean that the urban areas will take over the responsibilities that individual communities have? Maybe in the issue of decrees? If we take this, let me set an example for the Central Bohemia Region. If the municipality of Nymburk decides to change the collection of waste in any way, it will not have the slightest effect on the municipality of Beroun within one region. But if Prague is one region and one part of the city decides to behave differently, it will, of course, affect the other part of the city in these related matters, such as transport, waste, lighting and other things will have an impact. So what is it, I ask, the practical contribution of this change besides the fact that the elections will be every two years, the voters will be more and more poisoned and the elections will be more expensive? I think it is basically about the possibility of a permanent election campaign in Prague. As we witnessed during this parliamentary term, when the coalition changed three times in fact in Prague's council, and we saw that even some of the city's parts gradually regrouped their people in the leadership of their urban parts, and the coalitions changed, among other things, to have the best negotiating position in relation to the current governing formation at the City Council. This means that there will be some municipal elections and two years from now, when the elections will be held for the hl council. m. Prague, i.e. these regional elections, and there will be a different outcome, so there will be regrouping within the city council and council. And we get to the fact that Prague will really be much less functional than it is today. Let me conclude, because I'm also trying to find something positive on the examples, so, of course, I've been thinking a lot about what positive I see here in person. And since I have good relationships with Mr. Adámek's translator because his wife is my deputy mayor, my deputy, so, of course, although we are great archenemies, we not only treat each other politely, but I wondered what a dear neighbor wants to say to me. I think I might have figured it out. I would say that social democracy - because this proposal is a social democracy, however it was signed by two or three members of the ANO movement, one member of the Úsvit movement, two of the people's groups, has joined some communists, so it is a social democracy proposal and so I perceive it - I believe that social democracy is proceeding here in the spirit of the best political traditions, when my main enemy is not the opposition, but a coalition partner. I am deeply convinced that this proposal is against you - and this is against the YES movement. For one simple reason. The term of office will be reduced to two years. The current increase in preferences, I will not evaluate it, but surely gives the ANO movement hope for a very good result in the nearby municipal elections. But no tree grows into heaven, and this trend either stops or probably turns back. Just to give you an idea. I let the government's political parties with an electoral result of more than 20 percent since 1998, two years after the election. Social democracy, which won the elections with a result of 32 percent in 1998, was two years later, according to preferences, about 25 percent less - in proportion. Social democracy, which won the 2002 elections, lost up to 50 percent of its vote two years later. The Civil Democratic Party, which, even close but won the 2006 elections, was already a 17 percent drop against the outcome two years later. The same was true of the Civil Democratic Party in 2012. There was as much balance, but in the case of TOP 09 compared to the 2010 elections. Or, my dear colleagues and colleagues from the YES movement, they won't miss you any of those scandals either. Now I'm not saying whether it's a good thing or not, it's just reality. Which one of you would bet on the fact that Professor Válková, honored by our colleague, maybe in two years she'll be Minister of Justice? [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] Thank you. I wouldn't bet on it. I don't even appreciate it. It just kind of comes along. That would be weird if there weren't any changes in two years in government. It just comes along, and among other things, you lose some support in your voices, at least the protesters. Because after two years of losing the novelty, the protest votes will go somewhere else, because you will also be part of this establishment. It's just a done deal. [[Voice from the O.R.]] Of course we'll leave it up to you, colleague, thank you. However, I personally believe that although I do not wish any harm to anybody, the whole proposal for social democracy leads to the fact that anyone who does nothing will not do anything wrong. And if the YES movement makes a solid result in autumn and the term of office is reduced to two years, you will not be able to do anything. [[15.50 hours]] No one who will be there will be able to do anything, and social democracy is counting on your election outcome to be significantly worse by two years. In two years, you will do nothing, half a year after the election, and before you know it, before you really start working, your colleague knows it, he was also the mayor as well as, he knows it takes a while, so the election campaign - the 2014 election campaign - will begin. In this respect, I would like to thank social democracy. I see it as such a nice gallows that she built, and those representatives of the ANO movement who signed it are sticking their heads in this gallows and smiling at it. Congratulations to social democracy, I condone the ANO movement in Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u43	In fact, please Mr Adámek and then Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u44	I've already apologized, my fellow colleagues, once, but I can't be unresponsive to this. I'm sorry. As Mr Koubek said, we are not strangers when I put it this way, we know each other, but I would simply like to express my admiration for representatives of social democracy. m. Prague, because already in 2011 they knew that our opponent would be YES. That is why we presented this in 2011, Mr Koubka. You played political and interpreter here today, so we did it in 2011, when we first passed this law. You're the one who attacked us here that we deliberately withheld something. Let me read my performances for you in particular here again. I quote only part of it: As regards the change in the compatibility of a member of the Prague Council with other positions - that is what you have been talking about, through the Vice-President - to submit candidates only to registered political parties, then the Government's comment is correct and this is what our proposal addresses. It unites these conditions with the conditions of other regions. In other words, the petitioners think that this is the way they think it should be, and I answer another question through the President, I do not see the problem that if our proposal is accepted, they will not be able to be representatives of the Supervisory and Administrative Boards. You have a problem with that? Not me! You should have said that sooner! And the last two notes. I hope I can fit the limit. Please, I'm surprised the rest of the Republic works! I mean, there's been elections every two years, and I'm surprised we didn't turn around at all, and we just want it to be the same... [[From the diaper: They've broken up!]] Who messed it up, Mr Benda, through Madam Vice-President? Who's been in charge here for ten years? Who messed it up? Who got us there? And we just want the voters to be perfectly clear, so they know when they're voting for the Embassies. m. Prague, because of the law on hl. m. Prague works. We, Mr Koubka, are not going to reduce the constitutional law on this point -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u45	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up. With another factual request, please, Mr Komárek, then rapporteur Klán, de facto and then Mr Koubek, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I just have a really technical thing to do, and really, don't think I want to interfere with anyone's right to speak in order at any time, but I very much acknowledged my colleague Koubek's efforts to give priority to the mayor, regardless of what he claimed in the debate, but he didn't invent a way to do it. Maybe I'm the one who got the hang of it. In my opinion, the possibility is that they will say one sentence or give up a word rather than give a very long speech, and then, after the Mayor, they will rejoin the debate. Of course, I suppose none of us can outrun them. So, in all absolute modesty, I dare to put this idea at the disposal of other speakers if they share Mr Koubek's efforts to give priority to the mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u47	Thank you and with another factual request from the rapporteur, Mr Klán. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u48	It is a very interesting idea, but I have a factual one, and I have a priority right, so the priority right, Mr Komárek, through the President, has been forgotten. So I can outrun Mr. Mayor's priority right. I'm here to calm the mood a little, because here some people confuse these two prints: 124 solves one constituency, and 125 solves two-year shortening, so don't confuse it! You'll have to figure that out by the hundred and twenty-five, if that's the case. And then there's the problem, like the Embassy here. m. Prague submitted the same proposal that the constituency should be one in Prague, so it is solved by 140. It's exactly the same, because I'll probably be the rapporteur for the press, too, so I don't know what we're dealing with here. Then let us go through this until the next reading, we may as well discuss it with the committees and make various amendments. I know and understand, of course, the Embassies of hl. m. Prague, because it is as if it is a higher territorially self-governing whole and they also have the opportunity to submit draft laws, so here is the connection in a certain way with the regions, because regional councils have the same possibility, so I understand that this proposal from the council is being submitted here. It makes it seem more noble, so it seems to me, because the council itself seems to have decided. We do not decide as Members. And I'm leaning towards the plaintiff here that if it works everywhere in the Republic that there are elections every two years - you have regional elections and then they're municipal, it just unifies. I don't see any problem with that personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u49	I thank the honourable Member for his time, and I am now asking Mr Koubek to take action. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u50	Thank you. Through you to your honored colleague, Adámek. I would never dare say you didn't say anything when you said it. I have given the four examples that are missing in the proposal that they are withheld in the explanatory report, in the press, and that they are absolutely essential and that they should be said. I also didn't say that I was in favour of having a conspiracy with statutory bodies, but that was said from here to here. I think it would be polite to say that this change, which would have occurred, would have had the opportunity to discuss this change in advance in the written proposal, and that was not there, my colleague! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u51	Thank you for your time, and I am now asking for the debate entered by Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u52	Madam Vice-President, I'm talking to you because I want to tell you all about it. The opposition also takes good proposals from the government coalition. We agree with what Mr. Komárek here said. I am announcing that Franta Laudát and I are withdrawing our application and reporting again at the moment of the Mayor's speech to give him priority at the moment, because I think it is reasonable for him to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u53	Okay, well, thank you for your helpfulness, and so please the mayor to the speaker's desk. Please, Mr. Mayor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u54	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a lot of noise here, but I'd like to start by saying one thing. Whenever this is about anything Prague needs, it turns out that Prague doesn't comply, and when such nonsense comes here, it really threatens to approve. However, there is one more thing I would like to say here. I kind of already know from the Embassies. m. Prague, how it all works. He usually comes up with one, says it to the other two, who nod to it, then the next club gets through within one party, and then, as part of the coalition's creation, it gets through as one of the points that somebody wants there. And because the vote is then an absolute majority, that means 101, so out of 101, 95 doesn't know much about it, and the six understand it a little bit. So let me describe a little bit of why I am convinced and why colleagues who have spoken here before me, including the former mayor, who has the most to say from the logic of the matter, why we think that this is nonsense. It fell here that nothing changes, and at the same time it was said not to confuse it with some principle of confusion of the city for the county. And the arguments put forward by Mr Koubek were absolutely correct, as the voting mechanism is fundamentally changing in this proposal. It is changing in a fundamental way what is the difference between regional elections and municipal elections. So, following the approval of the bill, Prague will vote in a completely different way than it has voted four or five times in Prague so far. Apart from the fact that citizens don't get the chance to do so. Panaching, apart from voting according to candidates, means throwing in one side directly, will not be able to circle from other parties, which is common in all the cities that are in the Czech Republic, except that we take the right to vote for citizens of other nationalities who have a permanent residence in Prague. I remind you that there are 6 percent people in Prague today who have a nationality other than Czech. We were also formed by a committee within the capital city of Prague. [[16.00 hours]] All of these people here, with this amendment of the law, want to send away from the ballot box. I remind you that the number of these people will certainly rise in the future, because Prague is the magnet of foreign immigrants and permanent residents in Prague. I remind you that they are mostly people that Prague may also want. There has also been a change, and I am going to repeat it, because it is a fundamental change again, and that only registered political parties, not for example associations of independent candidates etc., can submit candidates in regional elections. But in Prague it is crucial that these associations are running! This is a terrible difference against the elections in the regions and elections in the capital city of Prague. It said here several times "but it's just a change" - no, it's a fundamental change! This is a fundamental change, and therefore the debate whether the city of Prague is a city or a region is also absolutely crucial. So if anyone here is going to vote for this bill, of course, they have the right to do so, but please do so knowing that they are essentially changing the system of elections in Prague, not just making a slight adjustment so that there is no repetition of the matter where the electoral circuits are divided so that fewer entities will get into the council. And that this has happened several times in history, and everyone is particularly upset about the situation of 2010, is obvious. However, if you agree with me that what I have just said is crucial, that Prague should be elected in one district in the future - and I think that after 2010, when the pendulum has reached a significant turning point, because it was really a brilliant manipulation of the electoral circuits, a bravado manipulation! - so I think that most people in Prague now, I think most of you here think: yes, that was wrong, we will try to secure one single constituency in the future. And I suppose, and maybe naively, that was the main reason why this bill came into existence - so I'm telling you, frankly, it can be done in a much lighter way, in a much more ordinary way, and the bill is already going to the Chamber of Deputies here, and it's the law that was mentioned, that is, it's a law coming from the City of Prague's representativeship, which, very simply, in the municipal election law, says "We will stop the possibility of dividing the electoral districts in Prague." So one single sentence appears in another law, and the law is already passed by the council, and here in the Chamber of Deputies, which in the future is the only substantial reason for which we all spend our time here today, solves one single sentence, and never, ever again, will Prague be divided into more electoral districts in the course of elections. I think that even if you had time to read it in detail, I think that even if you're in the 80's - which is my guess - who take the law as being agreed by someone in our club, or even from another side etc., I think we all need to understand this. I will deliver one last thing, and this is - please, Prague has one disadvantage against all statutory cities in the Czech Republic. Prague has the law given its urban parts. Whoever here has ever worked in the council of one of the statutory cities that has decided to divide their own community, their statutory city into smaller units, so knows what I'm talking about, because the struggle between the main, i.e. some central body, and the body that is in these small urban areas is mostly against the benefits of the cause. The capital city of Prague has city parts by law and cannot change their number. In the capital of Prague there are 57 city parts, central Prague 31 thousand. inhabitants, Prague 1, Prague 4 - 140 thousand. inhabitants and then some Prague Benice, Prague Kralovice - 150 inhabitants. These city parts breathe with the city. If Prague has more money, the city parts have more money. If Prague has less money, the city parts have less money. When a major infrastructure construction is decided, it is discussed with all the urban parts. It is absolutely unimaginable - it is absolutely unimaginable! - that elections will take place separately in the law given by the city parts, which we cannot limit, cancel, simply there and always will be, and into an entity so connected to these urban parts, such as the City Council and the City of Prague. I ask anyone who has any contact with a friend in Prague, someone who has worked whether it's the Magistrate, the city section, whether in politics or as an official, so ask him that this division is so against common sense that I can't imagine how the capital city of Prague will function after the election is divided into Prague's representativeship from election to representativeship into city parts. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much that, despite how little time you have, and I am aware of that, I completely understand you, so we do not want to get into it too much to consider common sense and put it into this decision, because here under the sentences of "František is not a big change" it is a fundamental change for the capital city of Prague, which in the future can have a huge impact on the functioning of the capital of Prague as a whole. And I would like to remind you, in general, that whatever happens wrong in Prague, and I think that the 2006 to 2010 parliamentary term speaks well enough about this, has terrible consequences throughout the Czech Republic. So I ask all of you to get to know the proposal that is being made here in more detail and consider these arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u55	Thank you to the Mayor of the capital city of Prague. Before we move on to the other applicants, the first is Mr Marek Benda, so I have an apology from Minister Babiš today at 16 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Robin Böhnisch also has an apology for work reasons. I'll ask Mr. Marek Benda. pardon, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u56	Mr President, I would like to ask for a ten-minute recess for a KDU-ČSL meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am interrupting the meeting due to the break of the KDU-ČSL. I'll meet you here at 4:20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u58	Dear colleagues, it is 16.20 hours, a pause for the KDU-ČSL meeting has passed and we will continue the debate on the draft law on the capital city of Prague. First of all, I have Mr Berkovec's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a nice day. Just to vote number 46. I am not questioning him, only on the screen record - I voted with some of my colleagues against rejection, not on how high he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u60	I thank the honourable Member, this will be stated in the tapestry. Mr Marek Benda is also registered with the proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u61	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that I have allowed myself -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u62	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I'm gonna cut you off, and I'm gonna ask you to calm down, and we'll continue when it's really quiet here. Really quiet please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u63	- that the mayor of the capital city of Prague was allowed to perform, because much of what I would say was also said in his performance. I just can't forgive myself for a little nudge at his address. We are such democrats in Prague that not only are people other than Czech nationalities allowed to vote here, but even may be mayors. The current mayor is a Moravian national and nobody in Prague cares. That's just a little point. Otherwise, I would like to repeat the motion for rejection officially in the debate and try to justify it in a brief way. It is pointless if we are first discussing this bill, the amendment to the Act on the capital city of Prague, and only then the constitutional amendment. It would have been much more correct and meaningful if it had first decided whether or not there was any will in this House, which, moreover, would have had to be more significantly majority, to shorten the term of office of Prague's capital for two years, and only then would it make sense to address this draft law. If we do it backwards, the bill is completely meaningless. And I say this with complete knowledge that my colleague Adámek will be mad at me, but he is completely senseless. The bill deals with three things: 1. It prohibits the municipal council from deciding how many representatives it should have. All 6 300, or 6 299 municipalities can make this decision, one municipal council, and the capital city of Prague, cannot make it because it will be dictated to him. 2. It forbids one council across the country to divide the community, or the city, into electoral districts. Again - we can accept this as a general principle, just as we can accept as a general principle a fixed number of members of the council. But it doesn't make sense for us to do so for one single community, just by chance for the capital city of Prague. That doesn't make any sense. Then the proposal should have been much more general and should have said as a general rule in the municipal law that it must not be shared and something similar. 3. So to speak, it brings an alleged cancellation of the sails. But why just for the capital city of Prague? Either the sails on which they are chosen are difficult, but then I assure you that in Prague 4, where I live and live and which has 120,000 inhabitants and 130,000 voters, the sail is approximately as complicated as in the capital city of Prague. In a number of statutory cities, it is about the same complexity. So either say you want to cancel the sails in general and ban smashing. But why just for the capital city of Prague? How does that make sense? What's the point? Why don't we like it here? We like it everywhere else. Unless there are other reasons yet, and I believe that there are other reasons, in accordance with my colleague Koubek. And one last thing. If we were to make this change without at the same time approving that constitutional law to shorten the term, then we are really making Prague's voters crazy. Because at that point, they're going to vote in one election, unless there's a shortening, in one election according to two electoral systems, and that's dramatically different. One - you will have the so-called regional candidate, the opportunity to vote only for the party, no scramble, no preferential votes. The second, at the same time the elected candidate, who will be in the city or the local council, will vote for the system that we all know from the local elections. That doesn't make any sense either. Can you imagine the degree of error of those electoral candidates, the degree of confusion of how many preferential votes I have, where to cross, where to circle, which will arise if I allow this in one election room in one election act? The whole thing only makes sense if the second law is passed. I therefore argue that it should have been discussed earlier and that it should have been decided earlier. And only if the term of office is shortened can we play at whether Prague is a region or is not a region. If that is not the case, and I do not think there will be a shortening of the term, that this is really just a game of part of the Prague cafe that was terrified that the autumn elections might turn out differently. And maybe some of them were scared already in 2011, because the indications that new subjects were coming, and it wasn't yes at the time, but in Prague it was some other entities that were appearing, the indications were already in 2011, and that we need to stabilize our positions, we have been hearing in Prague for about three years. We've been hearing them repeatedly, and I've been wondering if this could be cut short in the next term. But if it doesn't have that meaning, that means restricting the next election winner, it doesn't make any sense at all. There's no logic at all. The Mayor has tried to explain here why he thinks he is terribly wrong, and I agree with him on this to break up the elections to the Prague Capital and the City Circuit elections, because it is just good to have those representatives - in this regard the capital of Prague is too tight an organism that is not similar to the region or the village from the outside, but is really a very tight organism that cooperates a hundred times a day. Most of the property that has urban parts is not theirs, but is only entrusted, and so on and so on and so forth. That's a lot of stuff. So it's good that the council is elected at one point to communicate with each other and to move things forward with each other. For all these reasons, I claim that this law in this form is complete nonsense. There is a possible change in the electoral law, which may prohibit some things in general, please do not want to do this, but shorten the term in Prague and make changes that... [[A voice from the diaper.]] This concerns the other law, which, of course, we will come to. Performing the things that are mentioned in this law, without shortening the term, will only mean incredible chaos in elections, and with its shortening, I consider it a big political mistake. I therefore propose a rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u64	I thank Mr Benda. With another proper application, Mr Laudát is registered, please, Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u65	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really shocked that people who know Prague, in the person of the petitioner, will come here with such a proposal. Any unimaginable disintegration of a large city with agglomeration, with such a complicated structure of the urban areas, as has been said here, are not full-fledged municipalities where property transactions, trusts, clearances, etc. must take place, where part is uniform, part is not uniform infrastructure. You know, I'd compare it a little bit to London. In London for a long time, and I say it's about something else, but the consequences can be completely comparable. In London during the Margaret Thatcherová era, historically, the conservative party did not stand a chance. She didn't know how to do it any other way, they figured out the city districts where the conservatives had a chance, and they actually cut London apart into a number of separate cities. The consequences, today, have been merging for many years, the consequences have been completely fatal, because indeed, particularly in terms of infrastructure, property, property sharing, planning, etc. They really need to be covered. It would even be appropriate for it to be an even wider area. I would point out here that politicians were in vain trying to unite under one territorial unit of Berlin and its surroundings, where it did not pass in the referendum, which bears its enormous costs and economic, financial and other to date, but it is simply given. But cutting directly into the urban organism in this way only because of political play - and this is political play. If citizens choose representatives who will be under the YES banner, I can regret it, but I must respect that. But that is not the price, for this price I am not willing to cause destabilization in Prague. I don't think that's really what this is, and of course it's already been done here, so it's probably going to be repeated in a detailed debate, a motion for rejection, and I would urge you to reject this. What I would support, however, in my time for my great pleasant surprise, was the Prime Minister of this country, Bohuslav Sobotka, and he said the sentence: With a distance of time I must admit that the setting up of the regions was a mistake. I think that if we want to save our citizens from elections, unnecessary dating, one corrupt floor of distribution and management of public finances, then let's argue that, for the sake of the Castle and for other reasons, we are also going to amend the Constitution, to consider whether we will not limit, in my opinion, the necessary costs for some long transitional period. When the Budget Committee was on a business trip in Italy at the end of the previous period, you know that the situation of the public budget of Italy or public budgets is very trivial, even more trivial than the Czech Republic, and they were looking for various savings options and they also said one of those proposals is one floor of territorial breakdown to cancel. They said it's completely unrealistic to achieve it. Recently, the new prime minister said that he would try to re-enforce the cancellation, I don't know which counties or, I'm sorry, which floor of the government and self-government it was. Despite political institutions and parties who, of course, want there to be more of them everywhere. So if the petitioner comes up with something like that, unlike this experiment, he'll have my support. And I'm really calling you all to account, because the consequences of that, and it hasn't quite said everything in here yet, but the main points, yes, are going to be absolutely trivial. And I really think it's a red-orange attack on Prague, that's all. But if we want to pay this price, I think this country has quite different problems and more pressing problems than destabilizing the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u66	I thank Mr Laudát. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u67	I couldn't resist the little gloss of what you heard a moment ago, although I understand that the first May is coming, we will be celebrating Schumannův's day and other important holidays, including today's witches. But when I hear that this proposal is a red-orange attack on Prague, that Prague will be fundamentally disintegrated and shattered, I think it's stupid. I, of course, have been sitting at Prague City Hall for eight years, I understand the subtle pretext of relations between the big town hall and the small town hall, but if the big town hall has one political jersey and a small town hall has another political jersey, I think it's more the responsibility of those politicians to communicate with each other, and that's all we're talking about. I understand that there has been a leading role of a right-wing block for 20 years in Prague and that they are not sure if this leadership role will be preserved and maybe they will have to argue with somebody more. But arguing is part of politics, and I don't think that looking at it is legal, but yet, I would say, the unwanted electoral engineering that this proposal brings is wrong. Of course, it's two things. We're always mixing the rattles and the land together. It's two prints, and I understand that comparing a step with other higher territorial units may be a problem, but let's just do this in the next reading, and let's not pretend that we're stopping a kind of terrible disaster here. All the technical things that we've been talking about here can be solved in second reading, possibly. in the final vote on one of those prints, because he can be accepted by one and the other doesn't have to. That can happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u68	I thank Mr Dolejš and ask who else is reporting to the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. And since the veto of two parliamentary clubs was applied pursuant to § 90 para. 2 and I have noted the motion to reject the proposal, so we will vote on rejection. But before that, the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to take the liberty, given what you have described, of actually proposing that two members of parliament refuse approval at first reading, so I would like to propose that the deadline be reduced to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u70	For 30 days, yes. The rapporteur is also reporting. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u71	Thank you for the floor. I won't hold up. I'm just gonna give you a sip that I'm personally curious about if it doesn't go through the next reading, so I'm wondering what we're gonna do with that hundred and sixty-four in June, when there's also one constituency that's being dealt with. How the Civil Democratic Party will stand up to this in June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u72	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will address the vote on Mr Benda and Mr Laudát's motion to reject this proposal. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote to dismiss this bill. Whoever is in favour of rejecting this bill, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 50, registered 153, for 73, against 64, the motion for rejection has been rejected. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? Mr. Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u73	I propose that this press should also be dealt with by the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-016-018.u74	The Constitutional Committee. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? There's no such proposition. We will therefore vote on the commandment of this bill to discuss first the Committee on Public Administration. I'm opening the vote on this. Whoever is in favor of the Public Administration Committee's commandment, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 51, with 154 Members present, for 148, against none. [[16.40 hours]] Furthermore, we will address the motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 52, registered 154 Members of Parliament, for 147, against 2. This proposal has also been adopted. I also report a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion to 30 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal for shortening. Whoever is to shorten the deadline to 30 days, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 53, registered 154 Members and Members, for 51, against 71. This proposal has not been adopted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Constitutional Legal Committee and that the deadline has been left. I thank both the rapporteur and the appellant and end the first reading of this bill. Now, let's look at point 24. It's...
