ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-001-078.u1	78. Government Bill on Cyber Security and Amendment to Related Acts (Department Act on Cyber Security) /Departmental Press 81/ - Third Reading I remind you, because it's Wednesday morning, we're at third reading. The position at the rapporteur's table will be taken by both Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and rapporteur of the Committee on Security and Defence, Mr Václav Klučka. So they're both in place. I still note that the amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 81/9. [[Noise in the hall.]] The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-001-078.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to express my great joy at the fact that this point has succeeded. It was placed as a fixed position at the beginning of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which was launched at 9 o'clock. Let me briefly comment on the draft law under discussion. I would like to thank you for its discussion on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I firmly believe that today we will be able to complete the discussion of this standard on the floor of the House, and the Czech Republic will thus be able to rank among the few countries that have a modern regulation in the field of cyber security. I presented the Government's bill in detail at the first reading which took place on 14 February of this year. The proposal was ordered for further discussion by the Security Committee, the Defence Committee, the Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Budgets, with a deadline for discussion in committees extended by 30 days. The draft law subsequently went through a general and detailed debate on 10 June 2014 and the amendments tabled were circulated to you on 11 June. In this context, I would like to thank you for the constructive approach in the present discussion of the proposal in question. Amendments were made to the bill by the Committee on Defence and by Members Valenta, Birk and Fichtner. Allow me to make a very brief statement as the petitioner on individual amendments. As regards the amendment contained in the Resolution of the Defence Committee No 22 of the Sixth Meeting of this Committee, I have no reservations about these amendments as a petitioner. These amendments are precise and do not constitute a negative impact on the substantive solution to the issue in question. With regard to Mr Jiří Valenta's amendment, I cannot agree with this amendment as a petitioner, for the following reasons: limiting the range of suppliers to public communication networks only would mean a significant narrowing of the range of potential suppliers of communication services for information and communication systems of critical information infrastructure and significant information systems, and there is no relevant reason for such narrowing. The proposed narrowing of the range of potential suppliers for critical information infrastructure and significant information systems would mean unjustified restrictions on competition and the creation of legal barriers to business in this area, which could lead to an undesirable increase in prices for relevant electronic communications services. Thirdly, even for the critical infrastructure of the State, restrictions such as those proposed by the amendment in question to the information and communication systems of critical information infrastructure and important information systems are currently not formulated. As regards Mr Birke's amendment, I also have no reservations about this amendment as a petitioner. As regards Mr Matěj Fichtner's amendment, I cannot agree with this amendment as a petitioner, for the following reasons: The proposed restriction on the activities of the national CERT is too broad and significantly interferes with the established system of cooperation between the private and public sectors, which, of course, is essential in the real world to ensure cyber security. Individuals of private law are currently used to turning to a private entity in dealing with cyber attacks. The amendments tabled completely exclude this established practice, which works in the real world. A change in the process of selecting the operator of the national CERT and removing the Institute of Public Contracts would render the process of selecting the operator of the national CERT and its tasks and position in cyber security in a transparent and unclear manner. These are the reasons why I will not be able to agree as a petitioner with Mr Matěj Fichtner's amendment. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for your attention. I shall repeat my position in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-001-078.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his opening words and open a debate in which I have no written application. I repeat that there is a debate at the third reading, which can only propose legislative technical adaptations, to remove grammatical errors, written and press changes which logically result from the amendments tabled. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The Prime Minister is not, but the rapporteurs - Mr Klučka is not interested in two committees, Mr Beznoska for the Committee is not budgetary, Mr Schwarz for the Constitutional Committee is also not interested. We will proceed to the vote. I will therefore ask the rapporteur, Václav Klučka, to announce the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to comment on them before the vote. I will also ask the President to comment on the various amendments, even if he has said them in his introductory words. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-001-078.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, let me introduce you to the draft voting procedure at third reading, press approval 81, government bill on cyber security. First of all, I recommend voting on amendments in the resolution of the Committee on Defence referred to in press 81/9 under letter A. I would like to vote on all these amendments together with one vote, as Amendments A1 to A10 form a clear and logical whole. If A1 to A10 is adopted, Mr Matěj Fichtner's amendments referred to under D will become unvoting. Furthermore, I recommend voting by one vote on amendments B1 and B2 to Mr Valenta. Both amendments are closely related. Thirdly, we are voting on the amendment under letter C of Mr Birke. In the absence of approval of the amendments under letter A from the resolution of the Defence Committee, we would then vote on Mr Fichtner's amendments mentioned in press 81/9 under letter D.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-001-078.u5	Thank you. Does anyone have a reservation, a reminder of the voting agenda? Are you interested in approving the procedure? I think it is simple and understandable, so we can do without voting separately. So shall we proceed to the vote on the amendments under A. Opinion? [[Both the rapporteur and the appellant have a positive opinion.]] We will decide in the vote the order number 102 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 102 from 165 for 156. The motion was accepted. So now we're going to vote on point B. Opinion? [[Both the rapporteur and the appellant have a negative opinion.]] We will decide in the vote order number 103. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 103 of the 166 present for 30, against 127. The motion was not accepted. Now the proposal under letter C. [[Both the rapporteur and the appellant have a positive opinion.]] I've started the vote with order number 104. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 104 of 166 present for 134, against 21. The motion was accepted. The letter D is unvoted according to the way the vote was voted under letter A. This has exhausted all amendments. We can therefore vote on the law as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on cyber security and on the amendment of related laws, according to House press 81, as amended by approved amendments.' [[Cyber Security Act]] I've started the vote with order number 105. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 105 of 166 for 161. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Prime Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done with this point. Let's continue with the point.
