ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u1	72. Current situation in Ukraine and the attitude of the Government of the Czech Republic First, I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Lubomír Zaorálek, to present the opening word for this report, the Government's position. [[There was a proposal in the hall to change the order of the speakers.]] Yes, but - I know who was the author of this point, but we agreed on the proposal that this is the position of the Czech Government, and we will therefore hear it, then another will speak. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am now speaking to Mrs Němcová, who believes that she, as the appellant of the point, could state the reasons why she asked for the proposal. I have absolutely nothing against it, so I'm happy to allow it and get off after it. I don't see any controversy in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u3	Because it was the government's position, I first have the government's position in the documents, and then I will call on the draftsman to point. But nothing happens if this is the agreement, please, Mrs Miroslava Němcová as the plaintiff of this point. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do - now I'm sorry about the teddy bear here. [[There's still a chewed rubber teddy bear on the speaker counter.]] Doesn't anyone want to take him out? I'm asking the office to clear this place up! I do not take the right to speak first, only those of you who are the new members of the Chamber of Deputies, I want to refer to the fact that it has always been a custom, if it has been - and it has also resulted from the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - if anyone has been the proponent of a point, the House has decided by voting that this item will be placed on its agenda, so it will always put it on its agenda, as with the laws, as with other reports, always speaking first, and then there are other speeches. For this reason, I was just curious that the House's organizational department has now chosen some other procedure in drawing up the president's seat to the Vice-President. Now, get to the point. I thank all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies who, in their vote, have allowed today's debate on the subject of Ukraine. I believe that we cannot remain indifferent to what is already happening in Ukraine within a few months. Dramatic footage of street fighting, reports of torture and imprisonment of opposition politicians and protesters, reports of dead and injured or the threat of the country's disintegration indicate that Ukraine, with which we should share a similar or the same civilization space, is in a critical situation. Ukraine is a country that has experienced many tragedies. As part of the Soviet Union, she was subjected to hard trials. To this day, millions of victims of famine have been brought to mind by Stalinův's violent collectiveization of agriculture. In the memory of many citizens is its orange revolution, which at that time meant a victory in the direction towards the West. But these expectations brought disillusionment and ended in a political crisis. Today, Ukraine is once again in the crosshairs not only of our thinking but also of the world media. Although the Orange Revolution is not repeated, the situation is much more complex. This European country is threatened with destabilization with 46 million inhabitants. Ukraine finds itself at a historic crossroads, and it also affects us, our security area. Today, the situation in Ukraine gives rise to a lot of emotions. It is becoming the subject of a political struggle between the West, East and Moscow, and since we have supported Ukraine's convergence with the European Union, we cannot remain silent on this explosive situation. The Ukrainian drama began to take place after President Viktor Janukovyč refused to sign the association agreements with the European Union by the end of November. So he turned his back on the European Union and leaned towards Russia. He did so without much discussion with the opposition, and even with his own party, so he surprised many players on the political scene, not only in Europe but also at home. He also surprised his influence groups, which have their economic interests in Europe. This exchange rate change has been widely commented as the victory of Vladimir Putin's policy and the loss of the European Union. Russia offered financial assistance and other economic advantages to Ukraine and decided to buy the Ukrajinec' favor. President Janukovyč could thus justify his pirouette in the eastern direction because he called Europe's offer a disadvantage. At the same time, however, he proved to be an untrustworthy politician who left the negotiating table. It should be recalled, however, that massive protests in Kiev did not only call for the will of the people after European integration or its opposition to this integration, but this drama escalated following the brutal repression of demonstrations by the Ukrainian security forces and the repression of the opposition. Ukraine rose only after the government ordered the peaceful protest of the students in Majdan Square to break down hard at the end of November by several thousand members of the elite units of the Ukrainian police Berkut. The footage of policemen beating defenseless students could not remind us of a similar intervention of security forces during Palach's week on National Class during the communist totalitarian era. [[11.10 hours]] In this context, we cannot leave out the role of the European Union, which, while offering association benefits to Ukraine, the Eastern Partnership, for example, is a question of how much it herself has been active and credible in this matter. If she meant her willingness to Ukraine seriously and if what she offered was sufficient and fulfilling the expectations of many tens of millions of Ukrainian people. We may ask whether the European Union has underestimated Russia's efforts to maintain its sphere of influence in Ukraine, as Moscow has never accepted Ukraine's inclination to the West. President Putin reaction, who warned the West not to interfere with Ukrainian affairs, also demonstrates this. President Janukovyč has shown himself to be a politician who has decided to give priority to asserting a personal power policy by using repression over democratic debate. This separates the Ukrainian head of state from European democratic standards. If he had doubts about the advantages of the European offer, he should have dealt with them openly, not backstage policy with the Russian party. The situation in Ukraine, and we all know that, is not black and white. The opposition does not form a homogeneous whole and the excesses on both sides can be condemned. Nevertheless, there are particularly disturbing reports on Ukraine's government's action against the opposition. To this day, the fate of 36 missing opponents is unknown. People are killed, tortured and imprisoned. It's not nearly just one media-based case of tortured activist Bulatov. It turns out that only international pressure can stop the impending much greater repression, even at the cost of economic sanctions. What can Czech foreign policy do? It can certainly not just hide behind the European Union's policy and repeat its views. She should express her own distinctive view of what is taking place. There is no doubt that our country's foreign policy will express itself positively on Ukraine's integration into European structures. It will undoubtedly continue the policy of previous governments, and I also expect it to call on both sides of the Ukrainian dispute to dialogue. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek has already announced this. He's made it clear enough. But I think that the government should make a clear statement on how it views the promotion of Russia's power interests at the expense of the European Union's interests. They were quite clear in the example of Ukraine. We should know how the government will stand up to the fact that Europe's negative policy in Ukraine has freed up other geopolitical interests. In the case of Ukraine, it is impossible to sit on two chairs, and so much less to continue in a Union policy acting in a way that does not show serious interest in Ukraine's integration. I also believe that the Government should comment on the person of Ukrainian President Janukovyč and his role in suppressing the rights of citizens, the rights of the opposition in Ukraine, in connection, of course, with his planned visit to the Czech Republic. If the government declares itself pro-European, what can the visit of President Viktor Janukovyč at the highest level of the Czech Republic now bring? Thus, a visit to a policy that is in serious dispute with the European Union and is a man who is still idly looking at how the fundamental rights of its citizens are being trampled on. I could present here a brief development of events as they took place on individual days in Ukraine. However, I expect those of you who are interested in this subject to think about it, so that the calendar of events is undoubtedly in your head, so you know what triggered and caused today's demonstrations and who played the role in them. But it is probably worth mentioning some of the observations of foreign not only commentators, but rather foreign political representatives and perhaps some opinions from the press. Protests abroad took place in various places, such as Germany, France, Sweden, Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. That is, protests against the government's progress against its citizens in Ukraine. It is also worth mentioning in this context how our closest neighbours view the matter. That is why I will mention the words of Polish President Bronislaw Komorowský, who says: "The problem is the policy of coercion and extortion applied by the eastern neighbour against Ukraine. Nothing like the Western world can agree with. That is not the way the questions of strategic importance are decided. The choice of Ukraine between the East and the West should be its sovereign choice," he stressed. According to Komorowský, there was a time when the West had to determine its strategy not only for Ukraine but also for other countries between East and West. German Chancellor Angela Merkelová also reminded Russia that the Cold War had ended and that it would therefore be worth overcoming the Cold War mentality. There is also a response from Slovakia that directly affects what is happening in Ukraine. For example, the Slovak press SME presents these contexts. To dump Brussels, I quote, "is to accept the iron embrace of Moscow, from which Ukraine will no longer wriggle. This will happen in the Eurasian country, and it is true that hundreds of thousands of barricades in Kiev came out, but with all due respect to reality, it will not change anything. Vilnius," that is, the rejection of the agreement with the European Union, "has decided on Ukraine for decades. Vilnius is the third great Putinův win in strategic battles to maintain influence in former holdings. The first was Georgia's event, the second Bucharest NATO summit, where Russia's lobby kicked the membership action plans out of play for Georgia and Ukraine, and this time it wasn't a lobby, but it rather resembles an auction that offers more. In Slovakia," says the diary, "we should mourn Ukraine as a lost opportunity. The direct result resulting from Vilnius is a common border with Russia. Neighborhood with a bear no longer without a thousand-mile bumper can get Slovakia into geopolitical mess, especially if it happens in Europe," meant in the European Union, "something unpleasant will happen. In addition to all other foreign responses, it is also worth mentioning what President Putin mentioned. Because there is talk of him, so his words need to be mentioned in this context. Russian President Vladimír Putin, according to the Czech News Agency of 19 December, denied that Moscow was against the agreement on Ukraine's association with the European Union, but also pointed out that Russia must protect its economy. The main motive for the agreements with Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovyč, according to Putin, was to provide brotherly assistance to a brotherly neighboring country. I quote: "We see that Ukraine is in a difficult situation. When we say it's a brotherly nation, a brotherly people, we have to act accordingly. That is the main reason why we decided to help them," Putin said at a large balance sheet press conference. Then there is another mention that I do not want to ignore, the position of the Polish Sejma, who gave a very clear opinion on what he thinks is happening in Ukraine. And they even talk about possible sanctions in one passage. In this introductory word, I would like to mention one more question that maybe the media employs more than the true fates of people who have been standing on Ukrainian square for several months or in Kiev Square, and expect their government, their parliament and their authorities to start a normal dialogue with them. The media is interested, and I understand the invitation of President Miloš Zeman to Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovyč. I was talking about it a little bit. It's probably right for me to say my point of view on this thing. As I am aware that the protocol issue of the invitation always has its own time consistency, that it takes place in some context, that it responds, for example, to our President's invitation to this country, these are common protocol issues, so I am convinced that if, for example, the situation in the country itself, when the president is one of the main actors in the fight against its own citizens, it is appropriate to consider whether the Czech Republic will benefit from the adoption of the Ukrainian President on our soil and to address these issues. And why I think we should think about it. The fates of the very people I'm talking about need to be recalled. [[11.20 hours]] So I will begin by saying that the Ukrainian opposition is now missing 36 people. Ukrainian opposition activist Dmytro Bulatov has arrived in Vilnius, Lithuania, which you have seen, is being treated for serious injuries caused by the kidnappers. He's been tortured for two weeks. He's been missing. He told the Ukrainian media that the kidnappers, allegedly speaking with a Russian accent, among other things, tried to crucify him and cut off his ear. As a result of his participation in the protests of Bulatov, there were eight years in prison. In the meantime, the authorities have withdrawn the accusations related to his participation in anti-government demonstrations. In Lithuania, three other activists are being treated, according to the Ukrainian opposition, as victims of police violence. Kidnapping and torture, often documented by video recordings and photos on social networks, are, according to opposition leaders, responsible members of Berkut's strike command. The opposition has published statistics on detainees and missing persons. There are now 119 people in police detention cells, another 36 people disappeared without a trace. According to the opposition, they are in serious danger, threatened by the same fate that met Bulatov or murdered activist Jurij Verbický. Data on the number of deaths vary, according to the police three people died, opposition data are at least double. Bulatovův's kidnapping has provoked strong protests in European countries. European Foreign Minister Catherine Ashtonová said that she was appalled by the signs of torture committed on Bulatov, and she called the treatment of government critics unacceptable. Bulatov received an offer for treatment from the German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier. Ladies and gentlemen, this is roughly a description of what is happening in Ukraine. Just a very brief overview of how some personalities reacted, as I said, not only from the world of politics, but also from the world of the media. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very well aware of how fragile it is to enter into the internal affairs of another country, and I do not intend to try to do such a thing. To tell Ukraine what it must do, whether to lean towards the solution offered by the European Union or whether to find another solution for itself. But what we have to do, I believe, as a democratic parliament that honors the rights of citizens to express their views freely without being subjected to persecution, torture, closure and murder, so I think we have an unconditional standing to do so. I will therefore propose two motions for resolutions to the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Vice-President, when I have to do this in a detailed debate, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u5	Yes, Madame, in a detailed debate, I suppose there will be proposals. If you want to introduce them now, of course, but then we will repeat them in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u6	Maybe just so the House has time to think about them, so I'll say them, then I'll just refer to them in a detailed debate. Those who may wish to add a motion for a resolution will be familiar with what I propose. The motion for a resolution would therefore sound as follows: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. declines the procedure of the Government of Ukraine against demonstrators. We reject their intimidation, beating, imprisonment and torture. 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the competent authorities of Ukraine to release the detained citizens who have committed nothing more than protesting the decision of the Government, Parliament and President of Ukraine. These are my motions for resolutions. Thank you for the opening words at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u7	I thank Mrs Miroslava Němcová and ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek to present the position of the Government of the Czech Republic. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u8	Thank you. I wish you a good morning, too. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I present my position, to also say my word on the proposal that has been put forward here and the House will address it. I am merely transmitting that I spoke in the Senate yesterday on this subject and, of course, I am very pleased that the House expressed an interest in discussing the situation in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that I attended the meeting of the Council on Monday, the Foreign Council of the European Union, which consists of foreign ministers of the Member States of the European Union. I am saying this because before I start talking about Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the topic of the day-to-day foreign council was the situation in Syria, the situation in Libya, the situation in Egypt, the situation in the Central African Republic, the situation in the military contingent, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where you may have noticed that there was a relatively large and very serious disturbance, that we were dealing with them for an hour and a half. So when I went over there and I saw the program, I was wondering what kind of space we could even get for Ukraine. Because you understand that the situation in Libya is extremely serious, it is actually a broken state, and you understand that the southern states of the European Union feel, for example. the problems of the Central African Republic as more serious when I simplify this than the situation in Ukraine. That is why I was glad that the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Member States finally decided to engage in a closed negotiations that lasted more than three hours, concluded negotiations in the presence of only foreign ministers, and which specifically dealt with the situation in Ukraine, which, given what we are surrounded by, friends - and it is good to realize that this is something that may already have to be obvious, that we have such serious problems all around, in the south and east, that there is at all a question of how to approach the whole situation of North Africa, Eastern Europe - and Ukraine is, in fact, only one of those problems today, which is of course of particular importance, and I hope that I can at least indicate that the problems in these countries are very serious and that it has not been so obvious in this wreath of countries that are often reflected in fires today, and allow me to point out that in Syria there are 130 thousand dead as a balance of the Syrian conflict, so you probably understand that the problems in these countries are very serious and that it has not been so obvious for Ukraine. And I am glad that it has succeeded and that we have spent several hours focusing on the situation in Ukraine in order to create a position and a strategy. Of course, part of the meeting was the opening report by Cathy Ashton as the High Representative of the European Union on negotiations, for example. Russia. But the report on the negotiations with those involved in this conflict was also submitted by other ministers. I would like to tell you that this morning I contacted not only the Ambassador in Ukraine, but also the Special Envoy for the Eastern Partnership, Mr Mareš, who has been negotiating with politicians in Ukraine since this morning, and he has informed me of the content of the talks and the overall situation and atmosphere in Kiev today. So let me just say, as far as information is concerned, I've gathered to appear before you as someone who has a fresh idea of what the situation looks like at this point. So if I am to begin with what the situation looks like at the moment, I can more or less confirm what was said here from the mouth of Mrs Němcová. Today we live in a media world where it often looks like a fire is going to start somewhere, and it's spent two or three days on TV, and then it starts to deal with another one, especially when we have so many of them all around. And that makes it feel like it's covered by the Olympics. Some may feel that the situation in Ukraine has calmed down. I want to assure you that this is not the case. The situation in Ukraine is not approaching any solution at this time, nor is it that the calls that are taking place lead to some fundamental change in the situation. If I had to sum it up very briefly, according to the numbers available to us, it's really eight dead, over 30 missing, 1,300 injured, and that's just what we're able to estimate. [[11.30 hours]] The numbers are actually the result of violence, persecution. These numbers are the result of the fact that we have actually proven that the police and the state administration were actually using intimidation, using torture and taking people out of the picture as the way in which they tried to contain the protests. Of course, one should say at the beginning that it is unacceptable for us to say that at the borders of Europe, at a state with which we have recently wanted to sign an association agreement, we are suddenly seeing the complete opposite. The fact that fundamental rights are actually being denied, which, by the way, happened on 16 January, when Parliament actually adopted laws by which it substantially reduced freedom of expression, assembly and association. It is true that, on 28 January, the Government's resignation was handed down, and Parliament called off the validity of these laws. However, you probably who are watching this, you know that the amnesty law and the commitment to investigate what has happened are unfortunately bound in a special way by the 15-day deadline, which expires on 17 February of this year, and the law, which, of course, is a rather special idea for us legislator, is bound by the fact that until the 17th time the opposition leaders will clear out the town hall of Kiev, Hruševská Street and the whole set of buildings that are occupied at the moment. The 17th of February is actually dangerous because this date may thus be linked to a new outbreak of violence, and it is even possible that the government can decide after that date to continue the violent repression of demonstrations if those buildings are not cleared out. So, unfortunately, that's a term to which there are also some concerns. But, you know, it's not about these individual facts. This is about the general significance of what is happening in Ukraine today. And of all the information that we have at our disposal, I regret to tell you that, in Ukraine, de facto, the activities of state institutions are falling apart, that the functioning of the elementary rule of law is falling apart, that institutions such as police, justice and the like are falling apart, and that there is actually a de facto lawless state. What seems to me, summarizingly, the most dangerous thing about this development is that Ukraine can de facto become what it is called in the terminology of the failed state, that is, a fallen state that does not control the situation on its territory. That, my friends, is basically the most serious threat. That very close to the borders of Europe our neighbour, the country that we thought was moving forward, even going through the association agreement to proceed and enter, or to approach with its rules, regulations, the lifestyle of the European Union and Europe, so this country can become the fallen state over a very short period of time, that is, a state that is falling apart and in which basic functions do not work. States that we used to find more in Africa and other countries. And I'm telling you, I'm not overreacting. Unfortunately, the situation is so serious. And now the question is, why do we bother? I think, and in that I appreciate the Sněmovna wanting to talk about it, because, of course, we must be very concerned. I would like to remind you that a similar type of situation - I do not want to compare it completely, but take, for example, what the situation in the Balkans looked like a few years ago. In a slow way, the situation escalated and what it turned out to be. Colleagues, there was a situation that Europe did not know how to deal with, where we stood over what was going on there, as a surgeon in the operating room above the cut-up body, but a surgeon who did not know what to do and what to do with the body. This was a situation in which Europe really found itself a few years ago, and it was a memory that we wanted to forget, because we know that it was dealt with even by joining the United States, and it was handled militarily. Many Evropan have criticized this. And when you were talking to the Američan, they said to you, "It's nice that you don't like it, but what did you guys do?" Where was your solution to the situation? And that's why it feels so important to talk about it. If for us absolutely, I would say, in an almost shocking way, Ukraine is falling apart, so it affects us immensely, because not only events in the Balkans, but throughout the history of the 20th century, we know that similar types of situations and conflicts can have inconspicuous consequences, which, of course, can then affect the entire continent. Unfortunately, we don't need much imagination to realize the huge risks that are hidden in what is happening in Ukraine. And that is why you may understand that I think it is absolutely right that we are talking about this, because we would be blind if we refused to realize how immediately we are concerned. Of course, what is happening in Ukraine concerns Europe. It relates to its future development, and it may have consequences that we cannot even conceive. I would just like to say for the sake of order that the Czech Republic and the Czech Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are really engaged in Ukraine for a long time, permanently. We have a whole series of activities there. Members of the relevant committees certainly know how much education programmes we have there to strengthen self-government. You know well that the Czech Republic has long been offering experts, advisors for the transformation of Ukraine. And I would like to remind you that, on the one hand, the Visegrad Prime Minister's meeting, which was a few days ago - and I myself should be heading again at the V4 Foreign Ministers' meeting on Monday 24, where we should once again discuss releasing additional funds from the Visegrad Fund for Ukraine. These are mainly scholarships, these are a number of programmes that we are trying to help Ukraine. Certainly no one can say that the Czech Republic did not have Ukraine on its radar, it did not pay very strong attention to it. However, the situation is now that it is all, of course, as if little in something, because the problems that Ukraine has gotten into are now crossing the borders and the types of assistance that we have voted for up until now and which we have used. Even to tell you the truth, I am not sure whether the methods used by the European Union towards the countries in its neighbourhood, such as the countries that wanted to enter, those that were used against the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, the association agreements and all the instruments that we used and which worked in our case, I am not sure that similar types of instruments work against Ukraine today, the countries of North Africa, Syria and others. Do you understand? It seems to me that these companies are Diametrically at a different stage of economic, political development than Hungary, the Czech Republic, than Poland. We think it worked for us. We've been through these interviews, we've finally been able to enter, but today it seems to me that our idea may be simplified that a similar approach can work with those countries I've been talking about, which are being torn apart by fires today, where we ask ourselves how to stop them, because we feel that these fires are extremely dangerous. And if I were to report to you on what was going on with the closed foreign ministers' debate on Monday in Brussels, it was essentially about this: how to treat Ukraine, how to behave Europe, so that we can help the situation. [[11.40 hours]] He's completely undisputed, and when you look at that statement, it's clear that he starts with a conviction of violence, that he starts with a refusal to use intimidation and torture. These are all things that are essential in terms of the fundamental values of Europe. This position is clear. There's no debate about that. That's something we can't allow, we can't suffer because the moment we start to tolerate it, we're losing ourselves civilized. Then it means that we will endure such violations of values in the immediate neighborhood. Let me say one thing. I think it is not easy to come to distant countries in the developing world, somewhere in Asia, other continents and tell them how democracy is supposed to work, how to respect certain values, because other civilization circuits have followed specific developments. And I imagine we can tell them that nowhere in any civilized culture is allowed to torture people. And those are the things that we can agree on maybe with anyone, whatever the story of civilization is behind it. But it is not so easy to tell them what political regimes are supposed to be. But something else is when it happens right in our cultural environment. And Ukraine is de facto almost our cultural environment. This means that refusing violence, refusing to respect human rights there, is of particular importance to me when it happens almost here between us. It's just like our civilization. That's our culture. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary to make it clear that we do not suffer from this, that we cannot accept this, and we must make every effort to change this situation. Another thing, my fellow Members, is when we start talking about where the mistake is and whether we have done everything we can to prevent such a situation. I'm sorry, but it's something weird when I repeat what I've already said. You have a country with which we almost signed an association agreement, and within a few days there is even talk that we should restrict visas for those we know were involved in sanctions, that we should freeze accounts for those we know are linked to the leaders of the political regime. Shortly after we talked about entry, during a moment of history, there's a complete opposite of what we're supposed to be punishing at once, or acting with such bans against someone who violates the elementary principles of humanity. It's like something's not working here. And that, again, comes to what was the topic of the debate of foreign ministers. It is difficult, colleagues, if on the one hand we say that we will not simply give up the fight for Ukraine and we will not be pushed out of it, and at the same time we will say that we want to end the Cold War. That's the conflicting moment. In this we have to choose, and that was by chance the performance of the British Foreign Minister, which said something in the sense that the question is whether we should approach the fact that we are simply fighting over Ukraine. Understand that in this world, the battle of power has already divided Korea, divided Vietnam, and I can tell you examples of how the Cold War has torn the earth into two pieces. So that it doesn't happen to us that we will tear Ukraine apart simply by fighting for it the same way we were used to it in the past during the Cold War. One position is -- no, we're not going to back out of here, we're going to be tough, Ukraine has to choose. I myself have dealt with the situation in Asia in the past sufficiently thoroughly and I just have to say, my friends, that the korejec did not split themselves up. If it weren't for the Cold War then, the countries wouldn't have been divided, I hope you agree. It wasn't some peculiar Korean or Vietnamese thinking that we had North and South Vietnam. This was simply a conflict that caused these countries to be torn apart. And do we have to repeat this in Ukraine today? That's a terrible idea. We're going back to where we were. Should we treat Ukraine as a place to serve and prove that we are better than others? Or do we do what Frank-Walter Steinmeier did, who called the Russian Foreign Minister and said to him, "What good is it for you Rus that's going on there?" You're really gonna lead this to the bitter ends of it, aren't you? Is a broken Ukraine in Russia's interest? Is Russia interested in escalating the situation so that Ukraine will eventually become the failed state, the fallen state? Will that be protecting Russia's economic interests? When I tell you here that we have some responsibility for Ukraine and that Ukraine has, of course, taken advantage of this situation - I dare say here that Ukraine has taken advantage of this situation, that we have not been able to reach Russia with Europe, that we will not play this game. She used it and used every side to raise her price. And unfortunately, we said that we were attracting Ukraine to Europe, offering it a partnership, offering it an association agreement. When you take the legal situation in Ukraine, I often wondered: Do the Ukrainian oligarchs really think that they will implement all the harmonisation of legislation and accept the creation of rules that Ukraine did not actually dream of? Yes, I spoke to some who told me: Yes, we are interested in keeping our children out of the streets where they will be guarded with machine guns. We want to create a life like you do in Europe. So it's like there really are forces that want it. Why the signature hasn't been revoked, I don't want to talk much about it here, because you all know that the background is complicated and that the Russian party has played an important role in it above all doubt. I'll tell you one thing as an example. The Armenian President and Arménec were visiting here recently. I had a chance to talk to the Armenian Foreign Minister. And I asked him why Armenia didn't finally accept the signing of the association agreement. And the Armenian minister told me quite frankly: we as Armenia need to maintain relations with Russia for strategic reasons. And I may not have to explain to you that Armenia, in its position, cannot afford to cut ties with Russia. And if Europe confronted us with a question either or, we were unable to cut off Russia, sign an association agreement. This simply could not be done strategically in our country. And we're sorry, we wanted to have relationships on both sides. The situation either caused Armenia's talks about the association agreement to fail. And so it is in Ukraine. Of course, the Russian project of the Eurasian Customs Union is a project that, if it were to be created as a competitive project for Europe, would be like a continent that emerges as a kind of competition for the European Community. With other rules, with other regulations. Here, it's as if the rivalry was created in a new form. If states stand in a situation where they are to choose, that is the situation that creates the conflicts Ukraine is getting into. You see, everyone here has their own fault. Ukraine has been trying to take advantage of this situation for a long time, and we may not even have realized the danger we are running into. I don't want to be some simple judge here right now. I am just pointing out that we cannot say at the same time 'we will proceed hard to defend Europe's interests in Ukraine and push them through' and at the same time say 'we do not want the Cold War back'. I think that the call I gave to the German Minister, the Russian Minister, the call to "end these races because the results can be tragic" suggests that I think that an agreement and negotiations between Europe and Russia should also be part of the solution. You know, it's kind of like Syria. Let me remind you that in this country, where we are, unfortunately, talking about an even more horrible number of victims than in the case of Ukraine, and God forbid Ukraine will not get into such a tragic situation and that the situation will not deteriorate there, but you know that in Syria some politicians have said: we will not deal with Asad. That's not a partner for us. Look what's going on in there. These crimes. And today you have a meeting in Montreux and Geneva and the foreign ministers of the same countries are handing out Asadův's foreign minister. Why? Because there is no way out of that blood but through the negotiating table, and in the end it is because it is the only way. And even here, Russia is trying to agree with Europe and try to move in one direction. I don't want to idealize it, the situation around Syria is complicated, but I'm telling you this as an example. I'm just worried that the moment we cut the comms, when we say we're just fighting... This isn't the Olympics. Here, the inability to act can be fatal. [[11.50 hours]] So I'm actually in my performance when I should have said position, and I'm saying my opinion here... I believe that we cannot help the return of the Cold War and that all those who have helped raise the situation must be included in the negotiations. There were just more of those who drove it so dangerously to the explosion that we finally witnessed. Of course we can't make that decision as Ukrainians. I'm never gonna talk about how we should be meditating on what's going on in there. No. The decision on Ukraine must be made by the Ukrajinec themselves. I will never recommend to Ukrajinec to make early elections in six months. That's what they have to say when they want to make the election. Ukrajinec have to make their own decisions. Neither Europe can do this, nor Russia can do it. This must be the decision of the citizens of Ukraine. As hard as it is today. And I believe that this cannot be a decision-making process between the political opposition on the one hand and the government officials on the other, because the Majdan personally is important to me. The Majdan Civic Association, which today represents a far wider spectrum than merely the political opposition, which often loses confidence at many moments. So I think there must be more of these dialogue participants. And this dialogue is crucial when we talk about Ukraine having to give some answers. She has to do it. No one can impose them on them. We can't take over for them. We shouldn't be pouring oil into the fire. Maybe our role is to say as if what I'm implying is the conversation of Minister Steinmeier. This isn't in our interest. Not ours, not yours. And there's no way we can escalate the situation by fighting together. In this I see a certain way. I am not here to talk about such things as humanitarian aid organised by the Czech Republic, because I consider it an obligation that we do here. I'm not talking about resources. If you'd like, we can deliver it with numbers. That means there's a whole bunch of things that are commonplace. I am talking here about the fact that what is happening in Ukraine is really part of a fairly fundamental struggle about whether Europe will maintain its values and its form of life, because it can happen that if we do not manage these processes, it can very much affect what is even happening in our country. You know very well that there are many Ukrainian citizens in our country who live and work here, and it is quite a large number. And if Ukraine were the fallen state, then, of course, it could have a number of consequences, even very specific ones. There may be an influx of people from Ukraine who will also hit the Czech Republic. So there's a whole bunch of things to be prepared for today. I would just like to inform you that we have already discussed this with the Home Secretary and that, unfortunately, we have to prepare ourselves for the possible bad scenarios that I do not want and which none of us want. But it's a good thing we're talking about this thing here today. And I'm not gonna tell you that I'm a wise man who knows a guaranteed solution. However, I believe that the position adopted by the European Council of Ministers, which stated that it is necessary to offer Ukraine a political perspective, and that even an association agreement is not the last step towards Ukraine, I think it is right that this has been adopted. Because, on the one hand, we call Ukraine a stop of violence!, we demand a political solution to the crisis, a constitutional solution, but at the same time we say that the way to dealing with Europe, the way of Ukraine to Europe, is still open. It is also said in this resolution of the Council of Ministers that no one should interfere in the decision-making of Ukrajinec that the decision of Ukraine must be left to them alone. However, I believe that this does not rule out exactly what I have been trying to explain here all the time, that I believe that part of the solution must also be that those who have contributed to the creation of this difficult and serious situation in Ukraine must speak together. And now there's no point in us yelling at each other about who has a greater share of guilt, because everyone knows what sounds on our side here, we also know that they read it differently in Moscow. And now there's no point in calculating each other's arguments. Mr Putin's statement has been reminiscing all over the place a few years ago. I think it was a Munich conference where he said that Ukraine was an artificial state, which was a formulation that was spoken publicly and which, of course, seems terrifying. It is not worth repeating these things here, but it must be said: No, we are responsible, and it is not acceptable for us to escalate this situation even more rather than helping it. So I'm actually in this co-operation, in which Russia must be part of the solution, just as it is part of the solution in Syria today, in this I see the way out of preventing disaster. I told you here that unfortunately this catastrophic development is a possible scenario, and we have to do everything we can to prevent it. I've been trying to say what I can say here in this performance at a public appearance, and I still feel like I've touched the edges of what can be said in such a public way in a microphone in the House. And, of course, maybe I could go further in the committee's meeting. So I would warn of the world's black and white vision, warn of the simple ideas that the East and the West of Ukraine are going in different directions. I think they're simplified opinions. I would warn of what unfortunately also came from a minister's mouth that Ukraine is divided. I think these are misguided opinions. And I think that Ukraine, its solution must be sought throughout the country and that all the elements of society must be involved. So all I can say is wish that these predictions of possible escalation and new waves of violence will not be fulfilled. I wish we all in Europe were trying to find effective steps to face this. Thank you for your attention. And I have the impression that in the resolution that Mrs Němcová also proposed here, if I had time to watch it, now I will read it, I have not seen any controversial elements. So I believe there will be other proposals, and I will comment on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-13-ps2013-006-07-006-072.u9	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his proposal for the positions of the Government of the Czech Republic and information from the meeting of the European Council. And I'm saying that I have six applications for the debate, two with priority rights. First, the President of the Chamber of Deputies Hamáček, then President Schwarzenberg, and then another duly entered into the debate. However, since we have decided that another point will begin at 12 o'clock, and this is a change in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies and we will deal with the Ombudsman's choice, I ask President Hamáček if he wants to express himself in such a short period of time to start the debate. [[Two minutes left until 12 o'clock. The head of PS doesn't want to get off now.]] Let's put it off, it'll be more advantageous, even President Schwarzenberg, so he can react afterwards. I think it'll be easier. At least I'll take care of some organizational matters. One. Another apology that has come is due to Mr Herbert Pavera's illness, who apologizes for today's and tomorrow's negotiations. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that when today's meeting is adjourned for the election, it will continue not at 14.30 when the interpelation begins, but will start at 14.20, with the announcement of the results of the elections and the words will then be taken up by the President of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. That's what's important about organizational matters. I'm interrupting point 72. I thank the appellant, thank you again to the Minister. We'll probably get back to him after the decision on Friday morning after the third reading. So I would now start with paragraph 55 and points 57 and 58 with the fact that we can start at 12 o'clock, but given resolution 38 I think I can start them now. So this is a point.
