ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u1	4. Members of Stanislav Polčák, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended /German press 44/ - first reading I therefore now ask the representatives of Mr Stanislav Polčák's plaintiffs to present this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Now, really, only in brief. I refer to a rather detailed debate, which also focused on the text of the implementing standard for the Constitution, which just went into the next reading in the previous vote. The implementing law must, of course, depend on the text of the approved constitutional amendment or the proposed approved constitutional amendment. The text, as I have already pointed out in the previous debate, is based on the discussions that have been conducted and a constitutional compromise has already been reached on the premises of this House in the past period. In principle, it also reflects, in my opinion, the debate that took place in the Senate at the level of the debate on the Constitution. I will not prolong this speech any longer, because everything that has been said should be heard, with one exception. In my view, it would be appropriate that the time limit for the negotiation of this law is reasonably longer than the time for the consideration of the constitutional amendment, so that the resulting agreement on both the constitutional text can be reached and that is why it is above the text of the law. I also give consideration to the fact that the implementing law is not approved in the House before the amendment of the Constitution at the level of the Senate is approved. In other words, in order to be absolutely certain that the amendment to the Constitution has passed through both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, and only then would the text of the law be discussed here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And then he'd be going through standard legislative reading. I would not like to put my fellow co-president, honourable Members, in fact, into a certain light, in which we found ourselves the last time, when the law was passed here. It was therefore very worked out according to my conviction and subsequently this law fell under the table because the amendment of the Constitution was not approved. For this reason, in my opinion, it is more correct than getting into the same position as last time in order to first approve the constitutional text and then approve the text of the law. I, too, initially considered it perhaps more appropriate for this law to be withdrawn from this meeting so that it would not be discussed. [[10.50 hours]] On the other hand, I have to conclude here on the complaints that have been directed by some of the ODS colleagues that we have tabled this bill at a time when it was possible for the first time, and none of us has sought that this bill be discussed at this extraordinary meeting. So if I was almost blamed for sharing in the fact that the so-called law of service is covered up by other laws, then I want to say that none of the petitioners had any part in it, and I was not consulted here either, but, of course, by the decision of most of this House, I had no choice but to accept it. In the future, it would probably be more appropriate to verify some facts at least. I consider it appropriate for this bill to be discussed at the nearest meeting after the text of the constitutional amendment has been approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u3	Thank you, counselors. Mr appellant, I would like you to then in the debate a motion for a adjournment pursuant to Paragraph 63 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) he has put forward one more time so that we can vote on him afterwards. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Petr Kořenko to present his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u4	We are discussing the Houses of the Press 44 and the Houses of the Press 44/1, the Government's position. This is an amendment to the Act on the Supreme Audit Office, Act No.166/1993 Coll. The aim of the amendment proposal is to create legal conditions for proper application of the changes contained in the Houses of the Press 43. The proposal further specifies the competences contained in this press. It is mainly the appointment of public institutions which the Supreme Audit Office may subject to control or the determination of the amount of the State's and local authorities' equity participation in legal entities to which the SAO has jurisdiction. That limit shall be at least 50 per cent. Furthermore, the SAO's competence in relation to local authorities is specified by examining only legality and not efficiency and economy. The proposal also contains legislative technical amendments that respond to the previous amendment of legislation. The press under discussion is also based on the press that was discussed in the previous parliamentary term. In this case, the prints are 352 and 970. In its opinion, the Government agreed with the draft law under discussion. However, it recommended that several comments be taken into account in the next legislative process. Firstly, the government considers it appropriate to apply the SAO's control to persons who are effectively controlled by the Czech Republic or the local authorities in the case of the management of legal entities with the ownership of the Czech Republic or local authorities, i.e. to replace the 50 per cent threshold of ownership by the criterion of controlability. Secondly, the Government considers it appropriate that the control of the management of the local government be extended to examine economic efficiency and efficiency. I propose that, if they pass on this press to second reading, order further to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on Control. The next conclusion will be in my final performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have two applications - Mr Vladimír Koníček's application and Mr Ludvík Hovorka's application. I ask Mr Vladimír Koníček to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few words on the draft law on the Supreme Audit Office. The arguments against this proposal have been raised here in sufficient numbers, and I am not going to repeat them all and I am not going to rename them. But I want to offer a solution, one of the possible solutions. The rapporteur will propose that the hearing be adjourned, and I suggest that we return the draft law to the applicants for completion, because we can really talk about this law when the new text of the Constitution is approved. It will be up to them to consider whether they will submit a new proposal after the comments made in the debate, or leave it to the government, because I believe that the proposal should be passed through a standard legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u7	Thank you, Mr Koníček. The words will be taken by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, the last one entered into the debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, I declare that I have signed the State Reconstruction Initiative and have also signed this bill, but I have been present at the meeting of the Audit Committee at the independent Audit Office and have heard serious reservations from the President of the SAO. I would just like to ask the main promoter, or author of this standard, why there have been changes that are in contrast to what was in the original version of the bill, especially why the control of the management of funds collected under the law for the benefit of legal persons has been released, or the competence of the control of taxes, or public funds, and public health insurance. Another thing, that restriction, actually the control of institutions to control legality, only compliance, compliance with legislation, and why the controlled activity was launched in terms of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the spending of funds. It is unclear to me why this restriction is being inserted into this proposal. In the same way, the competence of the management control in the field of the competence of the protection of funds from abroad has fallen. It falls out of competence, where the SAO will now not be able to control the funds for which the State has taken over the guarantees. This is what I think, even in the case of the control of the management of funds provided by the Czech Republic from abroad and with the funds for which the State has taken over guarantees, the control of funds collected under the law for the benefit of legal persons again falls. These are changes which were not even in the original proposal, to which Members applied, when they were given actually drafts of basic thesis, which presented reconstruction of the state. I would like to ask you what the motivation was for these quite fundamental things to fall out of the SAO's powers of control, and why this has changed. I would also beg, because in the last parliamentary term, a draft amendment to the Law on the Supreme Audit Office was discussed here and there was actually some agreement in the Chamber of Deputies, in the end it did not pass by the Senate, I would like to ask why only the control of the management of the property of legal persons, in which the Czech Republic or the local government has at least 50% ownership participation, whether the border was chosen on the basis of an analysis or only on the basis of a recommendation from the Ministry of Finance, or in terms of the number of controls that the independent supervisory authority would then have to carry out. Thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u9	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. A representative of the plaintiffs Stanislav Polčák has signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u10	Thank you. I would first like to talk about what my colleague, President koníček, said here. Under legislative rules or under the Rules of Procedure, if the amendment to the Constitution is accompanied by an implementing act, it is necessary to present both texts. For this reason, both texts were presented, both the amendment of the Constitution and the implementing law. [[11.00 hours]] This has, of course, happened in the past period, and it should be the rule. However, the simultaneous discussion of the two drafts, which would have reached the Senate at the same time, is probably not entirely happier because the Senate has no time limit to discuss the amendment to the Constitution, while it has a 30-day deadline to discuss the amendment to the Act. For this reason, so that the Senate should not be exposed, let us say, to some pressure from the legislative procedure, it would probably be more appropriate first to approve, as I have indicated, the amendment to the Constitution by the two chambers of Parliament and thus become valid and effective in the legal order, and only then would the amendment of the law be discussed. This would actually change the discussion of this repeated attempt to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office from the previous round. I would not welcome the proposal to return to the recasting of the petitioners, but I think it is entirely appropriate to adjourn the discussion of this bill until it is approved, or before the amendment to the Constitution under press 43 is assessed by the two chambers of Parliament, or if the legislative process would end here in the House, then here in the House. So much for the procedure proposed by Mr Koníček. I don't identify with him. With regard to the content of Mr Hovorka's speech, first to the limit which is set. It should be said that there are various adjustments abroad. The values of the shares held by, say, public bodies in private companies, which then depend on the possibility of control by the Supreme Audit Office, are different. There are states that apply the majority principle. There are states that even apply the principle that it is sufficient if a public body holds only one share or one share in such a trading company, and there is already a control of the Supreme Audit Office. I confess that I am rather in favour of the lowest possible limits of this control, when the Supreme Audit Office can enter these companies, but I respected the compromise reached, and as I have already indicated, nothing has changed about the text of the standard compared to the version submitted in May except that there has been a waiver for commercial companies listed on public markets. In other words, if I had the opportunity to consult this issue with, for example, the Austrian representatives of their supervisory authority, it is a little specific, Austria is a Greek country, so the border was set there, it was not fifty percent, and it is no longer the border that is set, because it should be even lower. Also, as far as I know, there are legislative considerations in Austria that the border will be reduced. As I say, I wanted to vote for the border in principle and lower, but there is also a reasonable argument that the state should control, or should control more, those companies in which it holds the majority. Not only the state of course, but also the local authorities. So for this reason, a compromise agreement has been reached in the past over the text that has been submitted. I just want to point out that, in the original version of the law, no control of such companies was stylized in this way, to that extent. At the same time, I want to make it clear that this control is really meant to be full, which means that it is not a restriction that is seen at the level of municipalities and cities, because here the exception, which, let's say, has also been made at the level of the Senate, cannot be applied. At the same time, in my view, it is absolutely clear that no public control can be applied in these companies. This is, however, the contrary, if the management is controlled, or the procedures applied at the level of local authorities, where, of course, citizens also have their rights laid down by law and this management is also controlled by regional authorities or auditors or financial control according to budgetary rules. This is therefore to explain why, within the scope of commercial companies, the exemption is not actually incorporated in the way it is now composed in the case of municipalities and cities in section 4. As regards the other objections raised, the health insurance companies are listed in Section 3 or public health insurance companies are listed as controlled entities. And to the objections that were then communicated here in this regard, I believe that the text of the law has not been changed compared to the version that was presented last time. Personally, I have not even met with these objections and parties to the impossibility of controlling some of these entities in this government opinion and have only been communicated by the President of the Supreme Audit Office. This, however, in my view, refutes the previous approach of the Supreme Audit Office, which advocated the same draft, in the same version. Therefore, we can, of course, talk about this, about the text of the law, whether it is quite correct, whether it actually corresponds to what is meant to be controlled, I am not at all opposed to this debate and, on the contrary, I think it is appropriate that those comments which are actually relevant and which should be heard in the legislative process should also be recorded in the text of the law. However, I insist that the law has not changed at all against the original design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u11	Thank you. I ask if the final word is because the debate is that I have no written application, I don't see anyone from the point of view, so I will end the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not. rapporteur - I therefore ask for a summary of the debate, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, there were basically three proposals in the debate, namely a proposal for a return to completion under the Rules of Procedure, a second proposal - adjourn the hearing and a third - to extend the time limit for the hearing. My position is essentially neutral on all these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u13	Thank you. Under the Rules of Procedure, first we will vote on the motion to adjourn. This is a proposal pursuant to § 63 para. 1 (1a) - the motion for adjournment is limited, Mr appellant, by the end of the meeting in the Senate on constitutional change. Yes? [[Newsletter: But also in the House.]] Now you have to specify, I can't do that for you. So if I understood your speech in the debate so that by the end of the meeting in the Senate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u14	I think the condition should be complete. Therefore, I also mentioned here that it should be until the end of the legislative process in the Senate, but it is possible that the press will not proceed there either, so there would be a conditional - until the end of the discussion of this press in the House, in the event of its rejection, it would actually be only a proposal to reject it at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u15	Okay. That is, until the end of the negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies - this press. Yes? That is, the first proposal to be put to the vote is a motion to adjourn pursuant to § 63 para. 1 (1a) and that we adjourn press discussion 44 until the conclusion of press negotiations 43 in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Member Polčák from the position: in the Senate or in the Chamber of Deputies.]] I can't do this, Mr. Speaker. Because the House cannot overrule the constitutional law, so we have to decide whether it will be the question of the House or the question of the completion of the legislative process. The way I see it is that we can continue, if we send it to the Senate, we can probably continue, that's possible, we only tie it to our own actions, or to the end of the law itself, that means that the amendment to the Constitution in the Senate will be adopted, and then we will continue, only the debate in the Senate will be a little adjourned. So in this respect, we need to be clear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u16	Vice-President, maybe I can make this a little easier. If this is not approved in the House, it is clear that the implementing law cannot be discussed. So basically, you're right. It is permissible to discuss this standard of law, i.e. the adjournment, in the event of the approval of this constitutional text in the Senate, that means that if it ends up in the Chamber of Deputies, it will not automatically apply. In other words, until the end of the legislative process by approving the press of 43 in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-002-004.u17	Thank you. So we're clear. We will therefore adjourn until the end of the legislative process by approving the Senate or rejecting the Senate. We will decide in the vote the order number 20 that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 20 of the 166 present for 46, against 13. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore have to deal with another proposal, and that is the proposal to return this press to work. It means to the government - sorry, to the plaintiffs, although I heard in the debate that it would be more appropriate for the government, but it is returning to the plaintiffs, not to the government. We will decide in the vote the order number 21 that I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour of the return. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 21 of the present 167 for 128, against 23. The motion was accepted. This means, therefore, that we cannot deal with proposals for commandments or proposals for extension of the deadline, and I note that this proposal has been returned to the applicants for completion. That concludes point four. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the representatives of the appellants. Let's continue with point 5... We're just gonna make a deal with the Vice-President's colleagues about how we're gonna discuss it. Initiating item number
