ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u1	25. Proposal by Radek Vondráček, Helena Válková, Igor Nykl and others for the law amending Act No. 379/2005 Coll., on measures to protect against damage caused by tobacco products, alcohol and other addictive substances and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 272/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 [[13.40 hours]] As I have already said, I warn you that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Government has not delivered an opinion on this bill. I now ask Mr Radek Vondráček to present the proposal as the appellant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a moment in the life of a Member when his parliamentary proposal comes along. We meet over the anti-smoking law. Before I go to the law itself, I would like to make a brief statement. I do not have the ambition to discuss this law today in the regime of § 90 para. 2, on the one hand, for time reasons, one - for explanation: The proposal itself, why follow § 90, led me to think that the social debate on this subject is so old, so trash, each of us meets it, I suppose that each of us sometimes went to the restaurant to eat or sit with friends, so he met with the smoking issue and certainly discussed it. With this ambition, I have therefore come forward that this very simple proposal of my six words, that smoking is prohibited in the common areas of the dining facilities, is, in effect, already discussed. It was, of course, a proposal from a Member who was briefly in the Chamber of Deputies at that time. I was not yet aware of the importance and usefulness of this debate, so I will accept the standard legislative process with humility. [[There's noise in the room.]] Of course, the second motive why I proposed § 90 is a long-term announced government proposal that would also process this issue. However, the government's proposal is not yet in the world, nor is it presented to the Chamber of Deputies...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u3	I'll ask my colleagues to keep their voices down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u4	... and also focuses on thematics which is significantly wider and which contains many controversial topics. And I would hate for this theme to fit in and for this reason nothing will happen again in this area, because you all know that this is not the first proposal to ban smoking in the restaurant that we are discussing in this House. I have to say, according to research, 78 percent of citizens want non-smoking restaurants. Indeed, 18,000 people die a year from smoking - caused diseases in this country. I was also based on my personal experience in the original proposal, where apart from these fundamental data and the fundamental fight against smoking, I was also really interested in not having to dress completely in different clothes as a non-smoking person and a visitor to the restaurant after each visit. I had selfish reasons. This amendment applies in many countries of the European Union. When you look at the overview and studies, you will find that we are the only country within Europe that has no adequate solution to this issue, whether by complete restriction or even partial restriction. I am envious of foreign examples, when they actually introduced a ban on smoking almost overnight. Citizens respected this change, there was no civil unrest. In the long term there was even an increase in restaurant sales. This means that even the catastrophic scenarios have not been confirmed that some restaurants, especially in small villages, will have to close. It didn't happen. On the contrary, sales increased by four to six percent. For this reason, I think that this law should be a clear impulse for our country, that we really mean the fight against smoking in our country, that we are aware that smoking in restaurants is an important factor in smoking mainly young people who start. And we have evidence that they're starting to smoke in restaurants. There's their first experience with a cigarette. Even if it were to be a marginal small percentage, it is worth going into this adjustment and not succumbing to the pressures of different groups, whether tobacco or restaurant lobbies. I'm not going into a deep medical discussion. On this standard, my colleague, Dr. Igor Nykl, is working with me, who has already been entered into the general debate, so I would leave him my word in this section. As I said in the introduction, Section 90 is ambitious. I presume the reaction of opposition colleagues to this proposal. We are, of course, also prepared for an open debate within the committees if this proposal were to be brought to light. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I will just ask those who have already met this issue to support this proposal, to vote in the first reading, so that this standard does not need to be rejected for some petty reasons, and that we continue to address this issue in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u5	Thank you, too. I'm registering a priority application from the Chairman of the ČSSD Sklenák Club. I wanted to ask if we wouldn't let the rapporteur in so we could get the opening one - you want to talk, so please. [[Chairman Sklenák requests to speak immediately.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u6	I do not want to get ahead of the rapporteur, but I think it is a good idea for me to speak right at the beginning of the debate, and I will follow up on the speaker who said he was ready to negotiate that standard in the committees. I also think it would be good to discuss this in more detail, not in one reading. For this reason, on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, social democracy and KSČM, I allow myself the veto against the proceedings pursuant to § 90 para. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u7	Yes, thank you. We'll continue in the standard way. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, namely the Committee on Health, Mr Jaroslav Krákora. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Members, I think that so much has been said about the fight against smoking and smoking. I've got a news report on about three pages. I don't think it's worth reading here. We all know that smoking is a serious social problem in Europe and in our country, in the whole world, that it significantly damages health, causes serious diseases, I will not name them here, harms eventually the fetus, etc., causes greater accident rate and accident rate. As has already been said, some 18,000 people die each year from the consequences of smoking - related diseases. [[Noise in the hall.]] We know that smoking moves into lower age groups in children, etc. She's been smoking in women lately. It's all research. It's known. I don't want to say it again. I think it's normal not to smoke them. And this is what we should be aware of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I also ask Mr Štěpán Stupčuk, the rapporteur of the Economic Committee for Economic Affairs, to take the floor. And before there's a microphone, please, we've only got a few minutes left, please, let's keep our voice down, because we can't hear it, and we have to scream here. Please be quiet, especially in the left side of the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the substance of the proposal is clear. By adopting this law, we would no longer allow mixed operations to be allowed to smoke in certain defined parts and in others. This means that this is a proposal that would provide for an absolute ban on smoking in restaurant facilities. I'm merely legislatively speaking on this proposal. I believe that the proposal lacks certain elements that would be appropriate to add to it, in particular the clarification of the definitive terms that appear in the law, such as the internal space of smoking or mass caterers. The current application practice just points out that this is often the question of certain interpretational discretions. It is also not clear from the text of the bill itself whether it applies only to tobacco products or also includes the use of electronic cigarettes. Also, what is important and what the draft law should definitely contain is a transitional provision in which it should be determined by which time operators must comply with the obligation to label space with the graphic mark "smoking prohibited'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u11	Thank you, too. Thank you for lowering the noise level. I am now opening a general debate in which I have three applications - Mr Nykl, Mr Štětina and Mr Benda. I therefore ask first, Mr Nykl, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u12	Good afternoon. As Master Vondráček has already said, I should justify medically why we have actually tried to make an amendment to the law, because I am a cardiologist and have been dealing with many years of smoking-related diseases. The first fact to be said is that when we look at the evaluation of the European Commission and the European Union, the Czech Republic is the most moderate country in tobacco regulation throughout the European Union. Secondly, and what is important is that last year, when Bloomberg made the so-called ranking of the world's most vicious countries, where the combination of tobacco consumption, alcohol, drugs, and gambling revenues is evaluated, we have unfortunately won a sovereign victory. We're much worse off than Slovakia. In 1998, the WHO declared that tobacco was actually one of the greatest medical disasters that ever struck mankind. When we look at the data, tobacco causes one person to die every six seconds. Because tobacco is the main risk factor for four major non-infectious diseases, namely tumors, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, and even diabetes. And we know diabetes is an epidemic of the 21st century. Sadly, after so many years of trying, especially from Dr. Šťastný, the Czech Republic has not succeeded in moving it in the ranking. And as a cardiologist, I'd like to tell you a few dates why we're in favour of this strict ban on smoking in food establishments and stuff. Because the effect on the smoker's health has been clear since 1950. But data on the influence of passive smoking has been known since the 1980s. This is so-called secondhand smoking, but it is very serious, even if it is not quite like the primary smoking. But what's the big deal, it's been known to be so-called third-hand smoking since 2009, and that's what you meet all over the restaurant and all that. When smoking there, the toxic substances stick to the furniture, the carpets, the curtains, they create very carcinogenic nitrosamines. You're way worse than the stuff from the so-called second hand smoke. So we're actually talking about things we've known for years, but it's much worse than what we thought. Of course, there's gonna be a lot of people here who are gonna say that if we limit smoking like this, there's going to be an economic downturn. I'd like to state the data from America, when it turned out clearly, and there are very high-quality studies... It's just that, over a period of time, they've assessed how much a pack of cigarettes is actually sold and how much it brings to the economy, so when they take the data for how much the subsequent treatment costs, the difference is roughly tripled. Between 2000 and 2004 it is $70 billion and there it is $180 billion. So it's incomparable data in favor of making a profit if we don't smoke. What's interesting is that some countries where we say they can't do it at all have done it. Consider such Turkey. Turkey, where you say, a man smokes like a Turek, has even managed to remove water pipes from the restaurant facilities. Water pipes are one of the biggest deceptions that people think it's nothing interesting, that it's basically completely harmless. No, the opposite is true. A water pipe is more harmful than classic smoking. It would be sad if we could not really establish a trend in our country, which, of course, is in developed countries, both in America and in some countries of Europe, which is quite clear against smoking, and where, as Master Vondráček has already said, it has shown that there has not been any damage to the economy and the restaurants in question, which is a very common argument for us not to touch it. Another argument, and that's with the youth. A lot of people, a lot of young people say, if we didn't smoke in bars, restaurants, discotheques, we'd never smoke in our lives because we only smoke there. And that's our habit that comes about. So we're seeing a very useful thing here again. Anyway, we know that the fight against smoking is very hard because we know that tobacco is not only a cancerr, but unfortunately, and that is essential, it is declared an addictive substance of the opiate type. So imagine, the addictive substance of the opiate type is almost the hardest addictive substance, so I believe that fighting such a heavy substance is very difficult. However, I think it is up to us and the new Chamber of Deputies, as we have seen in such an indicative survey, that the situation is much better than it was before, and we believe that, as under the weight of the arguments of the legal, economic and my health cardiology, we will convince you that we should approve this very light amendment. Because the novel that's preparing for the government is just too complicated. She connects alcohol, smoking, drugs, and it's very hard to put together. There's a lot of comments because, for example, the issue of drugs is completely different. But this, this very simple, basically, word that we've put here should be understood by everyone. We think and believe that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u13	Thank you, too. And now, please, to the microphone of Mr. Mr. Štětina. We're four minutes short in 14 hours. I'm sorry. Now I take it all back. My bad. I have two more factual points to make, so the chairman of the KDU Club has to wait. I have Mr. Pilný here with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u14	I won't be long. Just for the purposes of the Steno Record, which is publicly available, I note that the Economic Committee has not yet dealt with this law. This means that the opinion of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee is merely the opinion of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, not the opinion of the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u15	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Koskuba, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, given that he has advanced enough time, I believe we will not discuss this point. I'm gonna follow up on a colleague of Nykl. Of course, as a doctor, I have to agree with a lot of leaders, but it won't make me forget here that the main dealer of this drug is the state. The state is the one who allows people to get to this drug. The state doesn't take small sums out of it. On the contrary, here you've been talking about how fine it is, but they've all raised their hand to make those smokers pay more and more. And I'm sorry, I'm one of the addicts who takes this drug. At the same time, I have never noticed the slightest will to let the koruna from the excise duty go to a resort that really solves the consequences of smoking. That means the dealer here is acting even harder than a regular drug dealer. Another one of my notes. We are intervening here, whether we want to or not, in the freedom of a citizen and freedom of business. That, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit. [[14.00 hours]] When a colleague has already spoken, He's been privy, and I thank him for that, about third-hand smoking, ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor I must warn you - do you realize what smoking is like in a private car? Where it takes one single smoker to absorb the entire crew. That's the drug far more than in the restaurants of the sixth price group. So let's move on and ban tobacco altogether or limit people in any other environment. I'm sorry, but I can't support this until this drug is sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-016-025.u17	I, too, thank you, and given that the 14th hour has come to an end, I am ending today's meeting day. I am interrupting the meeting until Wednesday, October 29, at 11:00 p.m., when we will proceed according to the approved programme. And one more organizational reminder. Don't forget to clear your desks, because the 28th will be an open day.
