ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u1	91. Report on the activities of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council and on the state of affairs in the field of radio and television broadcasting and on the provision of audiovisual media services on request for 2013 /German press 131/ The report was discussed by the Election Committee and the resolution was delivered to you as House Press 131/1. Once again, I ask the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Martin Komárek, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to my speech two or three minutes ago and only read the resolution that says that the Election Committee recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves Parliament's Report on the activities of the Radio and Television Council and on the state of affairs in the field of radio and television broadcasting and on the provision of audiovisual media services on demand for 2013 according to House press 131'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u3	I thank Mr Komárek. I am opening a general debate in which I register the application of Mr Stanjura's President of the Civic Democratic Party's Civic Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u4	Thank you for the floor. I don't know how many colleagues and colleagues had enough room to get to know these reports. They, although acting identically, and the President of the Election Committee said that he had actually said about 2013 in the 2012 report, so there is one big change and one new one. It's on pages 35 to 41, then it's in the attachment. It's a water chicken. It is a problem that the Council, as a government body, had to address at the initiative of our citizens, and the problem is very complicated. To put it simply, the law describes how political parties are to behave during the pre-election campaign period, in the pre-election period. Even to public institutions, it imposes certain obligations on all candidates. In 2013 - and this is what this report talks about - the first time elections are taking place in the democratic Czech Republic, a new phenomenon has emerged that commercial communications occur at the same time, i.e. advertising of private companies in which he acts as the main hero of the protagonist who simultaneously performs in political spots and in political advertising. Unlike that political advertising, when the law deals with what channels it can be on, on which it cannot, what conditions are to be especially public ones, the issue of commercial communication is not addressed by the law at all. I recommend study. I think it's a thing we're gonna have to keep following and consulting. I'll admit that it's not quite simple, and it's not clear. I don't want to stand trial here. [[12.20 hours]] When we argued about this on the electoral committee, the chairman of the electoral committee, Mr Komárek, said: let us amend it by law. That's possible. And I said that I think it's better if we keep to the standards and the normal state, and in the election campaign period, none of those who run will use commercial communications. Maybe it's not directly against the law. That it's on the edge of the law, that's what I think we're seeing. And I don't think we have weeks, months, and years to find a way to adjust the rules for business communications. If, then, when someone is running in the municipal elections and he's a businessman, if he can have it written in a local paper somewhere: I offer services, window change, insulation, painting or the like; or then at the regional level someone or at the central level someone else. I would like us not to see this debate as an attack on the Minister of Finance, because the problem is general. He showed up for the first time. I say, we must realise that the Radio and Television Council is an independent body of the state administration, although many see it similar to the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. It's a completely different case. In these two cases, they represent the concessionaires, whereas the so-called "great council" here is strictly governed by the law. This means not representing dealers, not representing voters, not representing citizens, but overseeing the rules in the area. And I think we're gonna have that debate on the election committee. And I'd like us to lead it without the political coloration and not see any opposition attack on it, because the problem, as I say, exists. It appeared for the first time, at least on a larger or national scale. Maybe he already existed in the local one, I can't describe it or credibly confirm it or disprove it. But I think we should deal with it. But I say for myself, it would be much better if there was some correct agreement between those who are running for office not to do it. I don't think those firms are gonna fail if the six or four weeks aren't exactly running a massive advertising campaign for a product rather than looking for a complex legal definition. That way, you also need to look for someone to control it so that it is not used again in political warfare as unjustified. And at the same time, in order to make any sense, if we put it in place and somebody has to control it, we'd have to come up with some sanctions. It's very complicated here, because if there are economic sanctions, it's recording it for the rich. And when they are political, it is very, very problematic, and it beats with the constitutional right of citizens to choose their representatives, whether at municipal, regional or national level. I'm sorry. I recommend, in accordance with the President's proposal, to approve the report, and I say that we are ready to have a fair debate on this without political connotations, as if one-way attacks. It's not that simple, it's not that black and white.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another proper application, Mr Komárek is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would very much like us to make an agreement in the Chamber of Deputies that we will not go away from the subject. And we're not gonna make it either. So I don't really believe that it's possible for all entrepreneurs who run, whatever side they're from, to make a fair deal. That is why I am personally convinced that we, as the House, should deal with this problem, which did not appear for the first time, by legislative or by regulation of the rules of the game. But that's not some offensive controversy with a colleague of Stanjura. Maybe they're both solutions. If that's the deal, I'll be thrilled. If there's a deal in this House that we're just gonna have a good time and a good time, I'm gonna be even more excited. However, this matter did not concern our position on the report of the Council on Radio and Television in 2013. We didn't criticize her progress. The Council has had several dozen complaints and problems like this, and we have stated that it has dealt with every problem. I don't think the board had a precedent, she didn't have a law to follow. She stated that this commercial communication was also in accordance with the law. So I'm just explaining. It wasn't a criticism of the council's work, it was a warning. My colleague Stanjura pointed out a problem that I believe exists. I'm just different in my opinion of the solution. I think it should be regulated by a special law rather than a mere gentleman's agreement, because my brief experience at the House convinces me that relying on gentlemen's agreements would be naive. That's how much I've been raised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u7	I thank Mr Komárek. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Mr. Komárek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u8	I will just sign up for my motion for a resolution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-007-091.u9	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I don't e-mail. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. We will vote on the resolution as proposed by the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Komárek. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 141, registered 137 Members and Members, for 107, against 3. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Next we'll look at point number
