ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u1	127. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /house print 255/ - third reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michaela Marksová, and the rapporteur of the Social Policy Committee, Mrs Gabriela Pecková. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's Press 255/2. I am opening a debate in which I have Mr Okamura's priority. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that we welcome every support of the family and we will vote in favour of the introduction of birth grants not only for the first child, but also for the second child, as proposed by the government. At the same time, those of you who follow the laws here have noticed that there is one single amendment that we should vote on under this law. I would like to ask you to support our only amendment to the Dawn movement. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] I would like to explain briefly why this would be a very important proposal and also in a way revolutionary. Our Republic is dying and the government proposal, which only gives birth to the second child, does not solve the problem, because according to the analysis of the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences, women must be born in our Republic at least 2.14 children per mother, otherwise we will not stop the extinction of our nation. If we don't start the birth rate, and of course we voted for the tax relief, but if we don't start it with all the mechanisms to give birth to at least 2.14 of the child to the mother, then there won't be any left because we need working citizens, which means that our work will contribute to the contributions to the ongoing pension system, then we have no choice but to deal with... in the relatively near future...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I was just about to enter your speech. I ask you, colleagues, to really, if you have anything important to do, go to the lobby and to keep your voice down, lower the sound level. We'll all appreciate it. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u4	At least we see that some other Members are not interested in supporting the birth rate and supporting young families with children in the Czech Republic. Okay, we're interested in Dawn. So, even if you keep on yelling, we will continue to fight to increase the contribution for young families with children. Therefore, in order to continue, if we do not start the birth rate, so that the Czech mother has more than 2.14 children per mother, then we do not have to deal with the extinction of the Czech nation in the near future and Moravian needs, we also have Slezan, immigration. We're gonna have to start dealing with immigration, and that's definitely not the way the Dawn movement supports it. Well, I'll say we don't support it specifically, we even reject it, because we think it's important to draw out all the opportunities to support Czech, Moravian and Silesian families with children in the first place. And now for the amendment. On the contrary, we want to improve the current proposal, because at this point, the government is only giving support to the second child. Whoever has a third and another child gets nothing. Nothing, no birthing. He doesn't stand a chance. The road is completely closed. The government just doesn't want any more support from a third child. That is why we propose that birth benefits be given to parents in the Czech Republic and to every third, fourth and any other child, but only on condition, and this is very important that they have a proper working history, at least five years, and at the same time a clean criminal record, including a period of higher education. This would encourage a higher birth rate for proper parents, and, on the contrary, we would not support the rude ones in the birth rate. I, during the few days I spoke about this proposal, of course, had a lot of discussion about it, and the other day someone asked me, apart from the fact that, of course, the overwhelming majority of citizens welcomed this proposal - overwhelming - so someone asked me: Isn't that a discriminatory proposal when we actually want a work history and a clean criminal record? Are we not discriminated against? I replied: Well, of course we do not discriminate, because we have only copied the conditions that are already in force when drawing other revenue from the state budget. This means you demonstrate debtlessness, when you apply for a post in the state administration, also a net criminal record, you are also paid out of public money, they want practice, that means a certain work history, so these are parameters that are quite common, the state requires them, only we want to apply these quite common parameters to another type of payment from the state. So it's certainly not discriminatory, and if we consider discrimination rude to the decent, then I certainly don't consider it discrimination. On the contrary, I feel that in the Czech Republic, decent people have long been discriminated against. Decent people are defensive. That is why you all pay your security twice, first of all, in the form of taxes - the state is supposed to ensure security from the Constitution - and secondly, you buy home alarms, double locks, safety pads, because you know that the state does not provide security, so we are taxed twice, because we still have to pay for that security ourselves. By the way, as early as June, I called on the government to present a long-term system strategy to support families with children, but we still have nothing on the table. And once again, I would like to point out, because many people in this discussion, when it's happening on those servers, the public, hundreds of posts, were just wondering why we're actually limiting it in some way, why we're giving parameters. But once again, I stress: On the contrary, this amendment of ours opens up at least a little space for at least someone on the third and other births. The government's proposal closed it. Nothing from the third child, I want to stress it again, because unfortunately, some people didn't understand this when I read the discussions. So, on the other hand, the Dawn proposal is pro-growth and gives a new buffer at least as a bonus, a bonus chosen, really proper parents, so that at least someone has a chance at third and other births. Now, based on this proposal, no one has the chance. And like I said, we're dying. In our opinion, the aim of state policy must not simply be to support any family, whether it sounds incorrect. We just stand by it. The state must support families, families with children, but families that benefit society in a targeted way, in the interests of all citizens of this country. This means, and I like to specify where parents work properly and do not commit criminal activity at the same time, that is, those families that give hope for future generations that their children will also benefit our country. Statistics are relentless. Not only are we dying, but we are also growing old as a society, so those who will continue to make money not only on pensions, but on the whole social system. Therefore, it does not have logic, dear friends, so it does not have logic to punish a decent family with this government bill for having a third, fourth or fifth child, and by not giving them birth benefits or other social benefits. In this respect, of course, we also supported higher tax discounts in Dawn, which I have already mentioned, the children of working parents, which we discussed this morning. I'm sure there'd be some complaints about our proposal about who's gonna pay for it. Well, I told you that last week, there's a whole bunch of expert analyses. Perhaps I'm just quoting an analysis e.g. I know that human life cannot be weighed with money, so for sure I also mention the source and quote - that human life has value, economic value in the Czech Republic is approximately CZK 12 million, and of course even those parents invest in the education of children and so on. It means having children, decent, children from proper families, is a highly profitable item for the state. Highly profitable item. And then these kids pay their taxes for 40 years. So let's be systemic and set the rules as society needs them. Don't worry about it, dear friends, let's support every child, every family, but only if the family gives hope of decent upbringing. A third and another child's maternity allowance may be a bonus for those who work properly, who live decently, who properly raise their children. On the contrary, the aim of the state is not to motivate those who do not work long-term and who do not have a clean criminal record. I, too, have noted the concerns of people who have been taught or who do not have a university, as part of the debate on this amendment, that perhaps it would not concern them. So it was just a bad understanding of our proposal, because by that working time of five years higher or higher education is involved, but of course it is not a condition for payment, so it doesn't affect whether a person has an education or not. It affects whether he has a history of work and if he has a clean criminal record, those are basically the criteria.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u5	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to ask you once again to, if you have anything necessary, go to the lobby to deal with this, because you will always keep your voice down, but then the noise level will grow, so we can't hear each other. I'm begging you, respect that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u6	I've already understood that the support of young families with children here really doesn't interest a lot of people, so thank you for helping to make peace. And I'd just keep going for a little while. In my opinion, a wise statesman - and I hope we have an ambition to be here at least a little bit - would not hesitate to invest for a second - into a state as profitable commodities as children of proper parents. And the profit isn't just financial, it's also that we'll feel safer on the streets, that we won't have to keep an eye on the wallets, that there'll be more social pressure to live better and so on in our country. Today, everything has been quantified into money, everything has been appreciated by money, and the company has become very materialistic, and then when someone on the street needs help, or when we get older, let's just look at the LDNs I'm going to talk about, so if any of you were there, I think you're going to change your mind very quickly about how human life is treated in our society. [[14.50 hours]] And that is also the result of materialism. Let's not convert everything into money. Let's not transfer children into money, please. The value is much higher. A decent and proper person, no matter whether he's a rich or rich businessman, or exhibition here on some reality show, that's the value we should value, not some celebrity on TV. If these children, if we have much, learn to be beneficial citizens, then they bring enormous appreciation to the entire state, to the entire society. Investing in decent citizens is an economic necessity for the Czech Republic. Likewise, it is absolute economic stupidity to invest in supporting the birth rate of those who do not work for life or are dangerous to society. I beg you to consider supporting our amendment. Let us encourage decent and proper families to have more children. Let us support the Czech Republic to stop dying. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I have two factual points here. The first is Mrs Marta Semelová, and then Mr Zavadil. This is followed with priority rights by Mr Kalousek. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u8	Thank you. I would like to express my fundamental opposition to this proposal. I support that there should be systematic support for young families with children, to start birth rates, to increase contributions. We also want to support housing, parental contributions, but also create conditions for people to have children, i.e. including working conditions. But, of course, we also support education for decency, honesty, work, etc. But the proposal that is put forward here, i.e. to give support to all children, which would certainly be beautiful, or as a birth certificate for all born children, but on condition that the person will work for at least five years and has a clean record, I have already mentioned this last time, it is completely unrealistic, my colleague through the President. You're talking about wanting to support only decent people, which means those who don't have jobs, those hundreds of thousands of people who objectively don't have jobs, that's rude? They don't deserve our support? I'd like to ask you how you're going to secure this job for these people, because when there are villages where there was one business, one company, one cooperative, everything went bankrupt and almost the whole village doesn't have a job, so are all the rude ones who wouldn't deserve support? It's not possible to think that way. Again, I say that this proposal is totally unacceptable to us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u9	Thank you for keeping the time, my colleague. Mr Zavadil now, followed by Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u10	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, Mr President. I'm the one that meets the coefficients, not 2.14, but five kids, so I think it's okay. [[Let's hear it.]] But I'm still struck by some of the notes my previous speaker Tomio Okamura said. Imagine a decent Tomio Okamura driving down the street, on the road by car, beating someone and being convicted. And I have no doubt he's decent. But then he's rude. Then he can't get what we're talking about here. My previous speaker, Marta Semelová, was talking about the unemployed. We have 600,000 unemployed plus minus. That's the same problem. I know a lot of people who want to work, as I know some who don't want me to be objective. But the vast majority wants to work, and she really is very difficult to find work! So we're gonna punish them for this? That's nonsense. I just wanted to give this speech very briefly to fit into my time, that I cannot support this proposal for the reasons that I have been talking about here, and that it is to think about how we are really going to proceed when it comes to family support, because there are other options, there are options that govern taxes, etc. etc., I don't want to talk about those right now. But I think that it is definitely more progressive and better than going the way of the decent and rude and those who get into the problem of the unemployed or not getting into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u11	Thank you. You fit in with a spare, Mr. Ambassador. Another point of fact is Mr Adam, after whom Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u12	I will simply say to my colleague through Mr President: we are not a government party, we are not responsible for unemployment here. Of course, we are trying to promote good measures, and I think we agree on many of them with you. And I would like to say to my colleague here: you are talking about unemployment here, through Mr President. You're a government party. Are you gonna blame us? This measure is not perfect, it is not ideal. But at least it's an attempt to motivate people. At least it's an attempt. What did you do?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u13	Thank you. Do you have a point of order, Mr Okamura? Now they are the first de facto Mr Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u14	I'll be very short. Me about the goat and you about the cart.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u15	De facto remarks are coming in, which is why I have to put them first. You want to sign up with a point of fact? Okay, with a point of fact. Another point of fact is made by Mr Lank, then by Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u16	Hello, I see the debate has broken down, so I would not be able to get into the general debate in the right order. Just for a little while. Here I was surprised by Mrs Semelová from KSČM, because the government proposal that is here, and at the same time Mr Zavadil, I would also comment on it, the government proposal, after all, you only proposed the birth rate to the second child. And you're asking me how to support thirds and others? You only suggested discrimination against another child. Not us. That means, on the other hand, I'm opening up the possibility that at least someone from a third child higher under some parameters would have any support at all and we'd stop dying. And the members of the government party tell me that this is not right and that something is different. We've been dying for 25 years. We've been here ten months and you haven't put anything on the table. I'm sorry, I didn't get that at all. On the contrary, we are trying to move your proposal, which discriminates against any parent with a third child and higher. You're also talking about tax relief. You guys suggested tax breaks for the second kid, tops. We just voted on it. You discriminated against any parent from a third child higher. So please don't turn it around. On the contrary, we're the only ones trying to support from the third child up here. And Mrs. Semelová here was asking how we're gonna do our job. Well, that's what we're waiting here for the government to present a concept for creating jobs. If we were in the government, of course, we'd help them. So let's ask the government when it will finally be on the table to finally drop record unemployment 8 percent, over 600,000 unemployed! I was talking about it in my speech yesterday. I agree with that. But that has nothing to do with the fact that we're trying to give birth grants from the third child a little bit higher. And I agree that mothers who are decent, proper and have no job should also have the right to birth. But let's figure out the parameters to support only the decent ones who live properly and not the rude ones. And as for the crime, it's a little different. That's what we discussed. Now that it's light crimes, I'm sorry, I don't know the legal term, you can apply for deletion within three years. So that's what we've had, and it wouldn't be about that either. So, of course, your complaint is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u17	Thank you. Now the Member has Zavadil with a technical remark. No, you're interrupting. In that case, Mr Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u18	Beautiful afternoon, thank you for the floor. I want to make this very clear because I feel like some of us either don't understand or don't want to understand. What you're suggesting is the first child to give birth, the second child to give birth, and then nothing. We don't want to punish anyone. On the contrary. We want to benefit. Let's not confuse it if we give someone the advantage of being decent, so he gets the third child. That's no punishment for the others, because the punishment is basically, that's how it's taken, that's what you want to do. Two kids, that's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u19	Thank you. And now duly entered into a debate with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess when I was waiting for my turn in the debate, so in my fantasy, I played all the mechanisms that Mr Okamura wanted to start birth rates. But then we stick to the only mechanism we're discussing, that's the birth rate. I'm really concerned about the naive belief that many of you share, that it is a tool that can somehow influence and increase natality. That faith is astonishing. Please note that if this were the case, the very rich and relatively safe Euro-Atlantic space, which is a small part of the globe, is experiencing a birthing boom. We are part of the richest part of the world and we are simply experiencing a birthing boom, while countries very poor, in Africa and in much of Asia, would, of course, be dying if this equation were to apply. It's the other way around. Isn't there something else? Isn't there a reason other than the birthing allowance and the welfare allowance? Please consider whether this faith really is naive. First of all. Secondly, I am fascinated by the mechanism by which the government conducts family policy. Although I highly doubt the impact of this instrument on the birth rate or, in fact, I am sure that this instrument will not affect the birth rate in any way, so why couldn't society agree on this if it had the resources to do so, if we had a surplus state budget, then somehow the surplus can be rewarded or thanked to parents who brought a new citizen into the world. But, of course, the government wants to do it on debt, at the expense of the deficit. So please, let's see what happens. Parents get the benefit the government borrows from the baby that's born. Then he'll have to pay for it. The government does nothing but move money between generations and pretend to give it from its own. The outcome of this family is obvious. Zero from zero will pass. The parent gets it, the baby has to pay for it. So the government does nothing but burden the family with unnecessary interest, calling it family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u21	Thank you. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Okamura, another Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u22	Hello. Then I'd just react. Yes, of course, what my colleague Lank said, on the contrary, you punish anyone from a third child more. And we're trying to fix it. The second thing is that I agree with Mr Kalousek, but I thought it was clear here that we are proposing an increase in birth, respectively. more from the third child, it's just a partial instrument. So far, you have rejected all our bills, so I have already understood that when you rejected the personal criminal liability of top politicians in April, because you don't want them to steal further, I understand that our bills have no meaning here in any way - that they have no hope. That is why I am dealing with this in the form of amendments. But the complex solution that we have to change the curriculum, the value ranking of at least that young generation to stop being a guide to a decent and happy life having an expensive car, a luxury mistress, expensive clothes, and instead of wishing it was helping, not being jealous, being solidarity, well, of course it has to go from the root, but I didn't even want to say that here. We are aware of this in the Dawn movement, and I have written about it in my books and in my texts. That's pretty obvious. But here, in a partial way, the amendment, we're trying to start or motivate ourselves under some conditions and at least push the birth rate. And otherwise I add - and it is not ideal, of course, we want a comprehensive solution, let's work on it, but the government has not submitted any. The only thing you've put forward is tax support for a second child. More discrimination again. I'm just adding that I'm from three kids myself, and I'm the middle one. I'm not an only child, and it's great when you have two excellent siblings, and it's great when a lot of kids are home. My mom's from six kids, and so is my daddy. It's great, and I just recommend it, but we should support it in some way. And it has to start with that, of course. Public media should promote family and family values. She's not doing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u23	Your time, Mr. Ambassador!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u24	So, of course, the solution should be complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u25	Thank you. I'm recording four factual points. Mr Opálka, Mr Beznoska, Mr Schwarz, Mrs Bohdalová and others. Your time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think a politician shouldn't just follow developments, but he should try to influence them. It is true that this is a civilization process and the whole Euro-Atlantic civilization is dying out. Amazingly, this process is also in Catholic countries such as Spain, Italy, Poland, but it is not in France, for example. I think we should focus on that pro-family policy, because counting only money, when the foundation of national reproduction is in children, is a little pathetic. I agree that we should approach complex solutions. I am even in favour of having more support for the other child than for the first, because only one process of extinction is slowing down, but it does not solve, but I call on the government to really dig into this problem interdisciplinaryly across all ministries and to learn lessons in Europe, for example in France, but also in Sweden, what methods need to be used in addition to immigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask you again, colleagues, to lower the noise level in the hall. Thank you for your respect. Now, Mr Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am very briefly behind the Civil Democratic Party. The Civil Democratic Party will support this government bill. I also think that this will not fatally change the Czech Republic's natality, but the extension of the number of beneficiaries by increasing it 2.4 times to 2.7 times the minimum of life - for your information, it is from CZK 18,504 pure to CZK 20,817, that is the decisive income that we are talking about - we consider acceptable. The impact on the state budget is more or less marginal, it is worth up to CZK half a billion, and it will support family policy, because the Civil Democratic Party has the support of family policy, especially for young people, in its programme. So, on our side, support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Other factual points are made by Mr Schwarz, Mrs Bohdalová and Mr Mihola. So Mr Schwarz withdraws his point of order, and I will ask Mrs Bohdalová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u30	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, by your means, Mr Okamur. He wants to change things all the time, he wants to change education, he says he wants to change the curriculum. I would like to tell him that no one can prove it in this country anymore, because we have no curriculum in this country since 2005, but we have been teaching according to the framework education programmes. I'd like him to realize this primary school thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u31	Thank you. I shall ask Mr Mihola for his factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, shortly behind the KDU-ČSL club. KDU-ČSL is closely linked to the support of families. That's common knowledge. We therefore welcome the fact that the government is very widely engaged in pro-family and pro-population policies. At the same time, we see the proposed amendment as an instrument that will enable low-income families to better cope with the cost impact. That's why we'll support her. However, we do not expect the birth rate, however well deserved - and I stress this, however well deserved - to be the main leverage that will improve the Czech Republic's demographic situation. I agree with my colleague Kalousek here. We discussed this issue in the Federal Republic of Germany, for example. There's a lot, much more to support the birth rate, and somehow it hasn't moved too much. As a real help to families with more children, we see tax discounts, which have been approved this morning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u33	Thank you. Mr Černoch is duly enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Just a little point, because there's always talk about how to support families, how to support children, how it should work and whether money will help birth rates or not. Of course they shouldn't. There is no way that money should ever be any reason for people to have children. But unfortunately, unfortunately, the reality is that I think a lot of people are wondering whether they're gonna be able to do it or not, whether they're gonna feed these kids or not. There's a suggestion. I think there are reasons for this to pass. Of course, we want to ask for your support, because I think it has a head and a heel, and of course, a complex way of dealing with these things, because that's not the only thing that would solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u35	Thank you. I have one point of fact here. Mr Soukup is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you - I would recommend to the ANO Members to vote in favour of the Government's proposal. We will not support Mr Okamura's amendment because it is discriminatory. In my opinion, and not only in my opinion, it is the fact that children are not born good and bad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u37	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Okamura. With priority rights, but for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u38	Thank you for the debate that was here. So, according to the logic of what my previous speaker here has told us, through Mr Soukup of the ANO movement, our proposal is discriminatory. Well, that's like the garbage you had yesterday. This means, if it is discriminatory when we want a clean criminal record or a work history, then it should also be discriminatory if a child is unlucky to have a third or bad luck to have a fourth. So it's not discrimination, your government proposal, when you've branded the children before birth, even in the womb of the mother, because by the time the parents get pregnant, it's already branded that number three is the baby, number four and no birthing allowance, not even for children, and even for 18 years or for how many. But if we want to set the conditions so that children are not discriminated against numerically, and especially that the Czech Republic, in order to place national interest above them, so that we do not die out, then suddenly it is discrimination. So, of course, I refuse, and I've already said it here. I don't know if you've all been here, but state authorities, state authorities normally ask applicants for a clean criminal record and work history or work experience, so it's nothing new. But I'd like to get back to the discussion. Basically, thank you for hearing... [[He was silent for the constant noise in the hall.]] So thank you for hearing the views across the political spectrum, why it will not support it and that it would (!) Something should have done differently. Guys, that would be (!) something should have done, you can only afford it here in the House, perhaps, because if it had happened in a private company, it would have been (!) something was to be done and that was to be (!) He will, so it's the shortest possible way to testify. Only because there's nothing burning and there's no pressure -- well, it's probably burning the good apartment -- so it should basically be done. We'll die out gradually, then we'll probably replace it with some immigrants. Here we have a number of inadaptable parents who make a living by having, like, ten children and collecting benefits. I wanted to separate them, we wanted to separate them in Dawn, the decent ones from the rude ones, to motivate the decent ones. So maybe I'm walking on the street, unlike some of you, and people are frustrated at the way in which certain inadaptable groups are favored at the expense of the adaptable ones who live a proper life. I came here to deal with it, to give the only solution, the only amendment that's here. None of you else came up with any solution to increase the birth rate. There is only one amendment, and that is our proposal, Dawn, which I have tabled. That means everything else is just talk, folks. It's just talk, and you're looking for reasons not to support it. So put another solution on the table. And even whoever goes on the microphone after that, if he criticizes, do not say what is wrong, say your specific comprehensive instructions to increase birth rate in the Czech Republic. I've been in the House for 11 months. I haven't heard it from the government yet. I haven't heard from him, the truth, or the previous government. On the contrary, there was only one person's birth rate, or one child's birth rate, and the support was quite low. That means, please, when you go to the microphone next - I'm sorry, I see that the next will be Mr Kalousek, but that's a coincidence - but I'd just ask you to be specific about what to do with it. Not why not, why not, but I point out again that we are dying, so what about it, or until when, in that case, I call on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, when the concept will be here, as we have said to ourselves in the law on material distress. Okay, you rejected the Dawn proposal, but you said you'd submit within two months. [[He's knocking heavily on the counter.]] Yeah, it took four, five months, but at least it's here somehow. So say, "No, we will not support it, but within two months we will present a complete government concept so that the Czech nation will cease to die and motivate people, even if we fail, to motivate people not to be afraid of having more children." It can be a form of housing, we've already talked about this, social housing and other things. Thank you and, of course, repeatedly ask for support, because there is no other proposal. Your proposal is for two children. You don't want to support any more. Another proposal to support a third and another child is not on the table here. As I said in the study, we're dying on a government proposal. I don't support this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u39	Thank you. Mr Kalousek and Mr Blažek are now making a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down again. Looks like from the left side of the House we got interference from yesterday to the right side of the House. It would be good, colleagues, to really lower your speeches. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u40	I insist on my belief that an energy blackout is a much more effective tool for promoting natality than birth control. But I wanted to point out that the third, fourth and fifth child who doesn't receive the birthing is not discriminated against. On the contrary, it has the advantage, because the government will not borrow from him to give the money to his mother, while the first and the second borrows the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u41	Thank you. Mr Blažek does not have a factual point at this point, so I would like to ask if anyone else wants to join the debate. It's not like that. In that case, if no one else is reporting, I am ending the debate. I ask, where appropriate, the applicant's final words. [[He's not interested.]] The rapporteur. [[Also negative reactions.]] Neither of you wants to have the final word, okay. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. I would ask the rapporteur to notify us of the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to comment on them before the vote. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u42	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The procedure should be very simple, because, as has been said here repeatedly, only one amendment has been received, namely the Okamura proposal, with which we can deal with one vote. Then we could vote on the whole bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-016-127.u43	Thank you. I ask if anyone objects to the proposed method of voting. It's not like that. We will proceed as the rapporteur has said. Before we proceed to the vote, let me ask you for an opinion, rapporteur. [[Reporter: Negative.]] Madam Secretary? [[- Negative.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this proposed amendment, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 191. Members present are 157, for proposal 14, against 101. The motion was denied. I can say that all the proposals have been voted on, and we will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Before I bring forward the motion for a resolution, I am asking you, rapporteur, about your position on this proposal. [[Reporter: More like a negative.]] More like a negative to the proposal as a whole. Madam Secretary? [[- Kladný.]] Thank you. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, according to House Press 255." I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution, let him raise his hand, press the button. Who's against the proposal? It's vote number 192. Members present are 159, in favour of proposal 133, against proposal 11. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[15.20 hours]] I'll open another point and give you my word. [[Members of Okamura.]] This is the point
