ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u1	32. Government bill on cyber security and amending related laws (the Cyber Security Act) /German press 81/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, will present the proposal. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, since the government does not yet have the Ministry of Cyber Security and I believe that such a central government office will not be established and established in the coming years, there is nothing left but for me to present this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies as Prime Minister. However, I do not want to question in any way the need and urgency of adopting such legislation within the framework of our legal order. As far as the bill on cyber security itself is concerned, its primary objective is to ensure the security of cyberspace. To this end, the Government's bill formulates a set of authorisations and obligations aimed at setting up mechanisms for active and effective cooperation between the private sector and the public administration with a view to effectively protecting against threats that may come from cyberspace. By setting up a predictable and transparent procedure for entities that are subject to new legal regulation, a detailed overview of the threats and risks occurring in cyberspace shall be provided and shall be able to respond in a rapid sequence to threats that threaten the security of information in information systems or the security of services and electronic communications networks. The bill does not aim - and cannot - to cover all the risks that can affect all users of cyberspace, but seeks to protect critical information infrastructure and important information systems, whose disruption would lead to damage or threat to the interests of the Czech Republic. For entities affected by regulation, specific obligations are laid down in the draft law to increase the protection of critical information infrastructure and important information systems. The bill also responds to an international situation where strengthening the protection of critical information infrastructure is also the aim of the current activities of the European Union. In order to meet these requirements, it is necessary to build a legislative framework on institutional and technical cooperation at national and international level, to coordinate prevention measures, but also to eliminate the consequences of cyber security incidents. And for further action, it is also necessary to raise general awareness and elimination of cyber threats. The final objective of these activities is to create and maintain a credible, competitive information society with an emphasis on the development of free and safe use and sharing of information and, last but not least, improving the image of the state in this area, both in the national context and in terms of our foreign relations. I believe, honourable Members, that the proposed system on the basis of the proposed bill will lead to the achievement of the above objectives, and I also believe that the proposed system, and thus the entire proposal for a law on cyber security, will be supported by the Chamber of Deputies and will enable it to be discussed at second and third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u3	I thank the Prime Minister and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, my dear government, my colleagues, I had no idea when I learned that I would become the rapporteur of the Cyber Security Act, what awaits me in this preparation, what opinions I have and what environment I am meeting here. So, as rapporteur for this government proposal, let me introduce to you a little bit of this law, including the laws on the amendment of related laws to cyber security, with the emphasis above all on the fact that the area of cyber security - and we will please begin to perceive this - will become one of the fundamental pillars of the entire internal security area of the state. [[11.10 hours]] So far, we don't see it that way, so far we're looking at it as a specific matter, but this is really going to be one of the fundamental pillars of the internal security of the state. This is how it must be seen, as it has been accompanying this society's entire life, and if we are to talk about the internal security of the state, then please let us talk nicely about where the fundamental objectives and the role of the state are in ensuring the internal security of the state. This is indeed the whole complex of things that are related to the integrated rescue system and other matters that we will include in internal security. It's just a shame we haven't worked so hard on the Homeland Security Act that I've been talking about in the House for a long time. Securing the state's cyber security is really a key challenge of the present time. The absence of geographical boundaries in cyberspace and the ubiquitous presence of cyber threats requires intensive international cooperation and building national capacities to ensure cyber security of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, this law on cybersecurity is based on the following fundamental principles: minimum intervention, minimum intervention in the rights of individuals of private law, individual responsibility for the security of their own network, the principle of technological neutrality, the principle of protection of human information self-determination. The basic objective of the Cyber Security Act is to increase cyberspace security and to establish a system of well-functioning cooperation between the public administration and the private sector in order to address cyber risks effectively. In this context, the draft law introduces specific authorisations and obligations for selected entities which aim to ensure sufficient security of cyberspace. To the entities to which the regulation of the law will apply, specific matters are set out in the draft law which aim, in particular, to increase the protection of the information systems they manage or networks they operate. These are the following basic obligations: the obligation to introduce security measures, the obligation to report cyber security incidents, the obligation to notify contact data and their changes, the obligation to take the necessary measures to address cyber security incidents. Ladies and gentlemen, as we will subsequently learn, this law has been given by the Organising Committee for discussion to the Security Committee, with the fact that I will then propose a debate in the Defence Committee, because I believe that these two committees are the ones that could actually discuss this law, and I ask you to release it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u5	I thank Mr Klučka. I am opening a general debate to which I am registering three applications so far. Mr Matěj Fichtner came forward first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'm getting a little cold, I hope you understand. So let me comment on the proposal for a law on cyber security. I would also like to draw attention during my speech to certain pitfalls of the draft, some of which I hope will be corrected during the debate on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. The law as a whole builds on long-term efforts to ensure the security of information systems and communication networks in the Czech Republic. It reflects the global trend when the public sphere interferes with the private sphere of regulation in those sectors that it considers worthy of extraordinary protection, such as banking or energy. In the case of regulation of the digital environment, this is primarily a response to the growing cyber attacks on information systems, which, as shown above by foreign experience, may not only be the work of individuals or individual attackers, but also of organized groups. In some cases there is a concern that the activity of these attackers is secretly organized or financed by foreign government or other power structures. From this point of view, it is natural that the legislative environment responds to these facts. But here is the first controversy. In the European and global context, we are one of the few countries, if not the only one, that should have a special law for cyber security. Although it is justified by Rusnokův's government at the time by reference to a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the Union, submitted by the European Commission on 7 February 2013, this Directive has not yet been approved. It is likely to be accepted, but it is not certain. From this point of view, the adoption of a special law may seem premature and hasty. Now, however, the very content of the law. Fortunately, the law does not meet the expectations of some critics who were afraid of monitoring the content of information flows or even their censorship. It shall focus only on protecting the information infrastructure in such a way as to ensure the individual's right to information self-determination. I strongly hope that this will continue to be the case in the future, and the content of the Internet will remain free, without any State interference in its content, without any effort to influence what can be published on the Internet, or efforts to centralise the monitoring of particular activities of individual users. Fortunately, the law looks at cyber security from the other side, i.e. it takes cyber security as an effort to ensure continuity of information services even when these services are threatened by a threat. For this reason, the law is intended to create an ambition to create a central cybersecurity workplace, so-called. Computer Emergency Response Team, in CERT, which will deal with the collection of data on security incidents that took place with individual important information and communication systems operators, i.e. critical information infrastructure, private and public. Based on the data thus obtained, the workplace will coordinate protective measures at national level, which should allow for a flexible and comprehensive response to a potential cyber attack of greater magnitude. [[11.20 hours]] CERT coordination shall be entrusted to the National Security Authority. For this reason, the Act extends not only the scope of the NSA but also its powers in relation to critical information infrastructure operators and other operators who will be obliged to transmit data on security incidents and implement appropriate measures according to the NBÚ guidelines, respectively. CERT, under penalty. In addition, the law entrusts CERT with related competences in the field of cyber-attack methodology. The law assumes that a public cybersecurity workplace will be established, so-called Government CERT, and the private cybersecurity workplace, so-called National CERT. The public law workplace, i.e. the government's CERT, is certainly beneficial in the sense that it creates a centralised security structure that oversees the security of key elements of the state-owned information infrastructure. I am of the opinion that this purpose has my full support. At the same time, according to the draft, the government CERT should perform a similar function in relation to selected private entities operating critical information infrastructure. However, as to a certain extent problematic, I perceive the establishment and operation of the national CERT. The National CERT is intended to provide a similar function as the Government CERT, but in relation to providers of electronic communications services and private entities that do not fall within the category of critical information infrastructure. According to the draft, the National Security Authority should be the operator of the national CERT itself, but a private body with which the National Security Office will have a public contract concluded. Thus, in its part concerning the model of operation of the national CERT, the draft contains a kind of special mix between the public and private sphere, where there is no clear line between what is financed, operated and owned by the State, and by what is financed, operated and owned by a private entity. These grey zones, which we already have more than enough in Czech law, always create space for wasting public funds or clientelism. It is a question of whether the creation of other such grey zones is appropriate and desirable today. I would point out here the text of the coalition agreement, which states in paragraph 11.2., quote: There is no way that we will allow security in our country to be gradually privatised. I therefore ask whether the situation where a state will establish a security structure which a private entity will operate on the basis of a basically exclusive licence is not such a privatization of security in our country. In other words, either an area is a matter of national security, then its regulation and, at the same time, supervision of compliance with these rules should be carried out by public institutions in the form of the exercise of state administration, either on a flat-rate basis or on a private basis, and then the State should not interfere with it at all. The particularity of the model presented crowns the fact that the explanatory memorandum does not contain precise information on what economic relations and impacts are or are intended to be in the operation of the national CERT by a private entity and what impact this granting of an exclusive licence for the operation of the national CERT will have on a selected entity. I intend to say exclusive licences because the public contract between the NBU and the operator of the national CERT must be regarded as an exclusive licence. In addition to all this, there is a technical lack of a draft consisting in the fact that the potential operator of the national CERT may not even hold a security certificate under the Secret Information Protection Act, although it will have access to detailed information on the vulnerability of the information system by individual private operators in its activities. Ladies and gentlemen, this state is famous for its IT orders, which are not only overpriced but often not functional. So I ask that when adopting laws, whose existence will burden either the state budget or affect economic relations, we should be very careful and vote only in favour of such solutions, the necessity of which we are 100% convinced. So much for the criticism of the proposed Cyber Security Act. Despite these deficiencies, I recommend The Chamber of Deputies to release the bill for discussion in committees and for second reading. However, as part of the second reading, I will demand that the petitioner disprove in a credible way the doubts that I have raised here. In the event that the arguments are not credible, I will consider submitting an amendment which essentially removes from the draft law a part of the national CERT so that the synergies between the NBU and the private operators of CERT continue to take place under an informal cooperation regime which does not result in the outsourcing of the security functions of the State. At the same time allow me, given the problematic nature of the draft, to propose according to § 91 para. Article 3 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the extension of the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u7	I thank Mr Fichtner. With another proper application, Mr Antonín Seďa came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, the proposal for a law on cybersecurity is based on the Government resolution on the establishment of the National Cyber Security Centre, and it must be said that, given the current security threats, it is necessary. Although I support the referral of the bill to second reading, I would like to make a few comments. I find it quite complicated the structure of my own division of CERT workplaces. It's actually been said here. The question is also which of the two workplaces will be the one that will be established abroad and will be a single contact point for the whole Czech Republic, which will be contacted abroad. The law further defines critical infrastructure elements, both communication and information. What specifically falls into critical infrastructure will be decided by the government by its regulation. CERT will apply the security measures provided for by the National Security Authority's decree, as well as the countermeasures to be declared by the NSA. It should be noted that a large part of the critical infrastructure is owned by private entities, so the National Security Authority here will talk about the security measures to be applied by private entities operating critical infrastructure elements. What measures and countermeasures it will be, can only be estimated. For example, if a typical countermeasure is to be the regulation of firewall security rules, how does the National Security Authority even get to know what kind of firewall the administrator specifically uses and how is it set? The proposed law divides public administration information systems into significant and insignificant, but without indicating what the criterion of relevance is for it. At the same time, important public information systems will have to apply the security measures provided for by the National Security Authority's decrees on a continuous basis, as well as the countermeasures announced by the NSA. On the other hand, the insignificant information systems of the public administration will only have to apply the countermeasures announced, but they should not be covered by security measures. honourable Members, I would like to ask the question for a second reading of the bill, whether these powers of the National Security Office should not be more under the democratic control of Parliament. I would also like to note that there are information systems of public administration which fall under Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on information systems of public administration. In addition, there are a number of other systems that do not fall under this law in public administration, and they will not even fall within the scope of the Cyber Security Act. There may also be a problem in the area of information systems for self-government and higher self-government units. All providers of electronic communications services and entities providing electronic communications networks will probably be the broadest group to which the new Cyber Security Act will come. This group of providers of electronic communications services and operators of electronic communications networks falls within the scope of Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications. In addition, there are a number of other entities whose activities fall under Act No.480/2004 Coll., on certain services of the information society. They are, in particular, all content providers, e.g. The list, Internet Info, hosting service providers and other services, and they will probably not fall within the scope of the new Cyber Security Act. So many notes to the law. I recommend you proceed to second reading and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u9	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Another proper application was submitted by Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u10	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, I agree, of course, with what has fallen from the previous speakers, I can certainly agree with that, but I think that, given the communication that lasts at least what we are essentially sitting in the benches, three months, I think, because I am also Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, that the debate is very intense. We know about the problems that have been specified here, both we and the National Security Bureau, and these things will be dealt with basically in terms of second-reading comments. [[11.30 hours]] With regard to general issues relating to cyber security, we are essentially surrounded by a physical world that is defined in some way legally, economically, culturally, etc., and yet there are problems with that, and basically in the 21st century we enter a world that has no limitations on the physical chemical, given physical chemical properties of materials, etc. It's a cloud environment, it's an environment that has no limitations. There are many things in this space that will only be legally problematic in the future, and the Cyber Security Act will also discover things that we do not know at this time, and will of course have to be modified in some way over time. With regard to state infrastructure, we have some indications that, for example, ministries, their security unions and IT departments are basically not working optimally and are considering implementing the benchmark that will reveal whether these, say, auxiliary infrastructure of the state administration are well-set and comply with certain security regulations that are given. As far as the law itself is concerned, I personally believe that, under international law, we need there to be legal security of cyberspace in the territory of the Czech Republic. Private information and communication systems are operated outside the scope of this Act and their operator is responsible for their safety and for what is happening in their systems. The State has the right to limit them only in case of a state of cyber danger. Providing electronic services and important networks, as well as private operators, have a duty only to monitor and report cyber security incidents, which is basically what everyone is already doing today, including banks that were at risk in the early days of reporting incidents, deterring their clients, thereby reducing their market credit. That's not true anymore. The restriction and regulations on these entities may only be in the event of a state of cyber danger. The general part of the law and all implementing legislation are only for critical information and communication infrastructure and important information systems of the state administration. Many Members have probably received a letter from nix.cz, so I will also comment on this letter. A substantial part of the law is devoted only to systems managed by a public authority plus designated critical systems. There may also be private operators. These authorities may only carry out activities designated by law. That is why we need the law and I recommend it for approval. Private entities are hardly affected by the law. It is untrue that cyber attacks will appear and disappear again. This concerns attacks that make some services, such as Internet banking, accessible, and such attacks can be considered as certain cyber vandalism. There are, however, far greater risks that can lead to data and data change, for example, in the Ministry of Social Affairs systems, pension payments and other similar systems, thereby creating different behaviours of the critical infrastructure system of the state or massive misuse of information processed by such systems, especially personal data of citizens of the Czech Republic. Private subjects can communicate with each other about anything that is not forbidden by law. On the contrary, public authorities can only communicate what the law allows them to do. In the framework of international conventions, the Czech Republic must clearly promote security within cyberspace within the territory of the Czech Republic and cooperate with other states. The mentioned executive concerns solely the critical infrastructure of the state and significant information systems. Again, it does not interfere with the rights of private entities. Personally, I think that many of these things really should be clarified, but it will be the subject of second reading. And the last thing, the defense of the state, whether physically using the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior, but also cyber security, is not a matter for these ministries, but it is a matter for this entire Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u11	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With another proper application, Mr Roman Váňa is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a rather complex, highly professional issue. I think that the very relevant and really very expert comments from my previous speakers will be able to discuss these on the committees and it will be good that both committees with a security theme will address this. I would just remind you on that occasion that just yesterday it was exactly 22 years ago when someone first joined the Internet in the Czech Republic. During that time, the region has undergone an absolutely turbulent and amazing development, and it is clear that the risks associated with this are escalating. Perhaps it is good to know that the Czech Republic, according to a few days ago published report, is the sixth in the world at the speed of internet connection. Only South Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, Holland and Switzerland are ahead of us, so it is an area in which we are really at the top of the world, and it is a pleasant finding. At this point, we also have a chance to be on top of the legislative security of cyber security, so I'd like to ask you to support this law for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u13	I thank Mr Váňa. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I am not reporting, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff, the Prime Minister, if he asks for the final word. He's asking. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u14	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place, because although it is partly critical of the text presented, it has been constructive. I am very pleased that none of the outgoing Members of the Chamber of Deputies has questioned the need for us to take the path of regulation in this area, which I think is a key basis for possible future agreement, even in the final form of this bill in the Chamber of Deputies and later also in the Senate. It is a typical standard that responds to the development of new technologies, responds to the risks that new technologies bring, and, as one of my previous speakers has also been said here, with a number of these phenomena the law does not yet fully know what to do, and therefore somewhere the task that the government has set itself before it, and now the Chamber of Deputies will also have it, it will not be completely trivial. I would therefore also like to agree with the proposal that appeared during the debate in order to extend the time limit for the discussion of the relevant bill. I want to say that we, as a government, have a great interest in ensuring that the standard that leaves the Chamber of Deputies is sufficiently clear, understandable, quality and does not raise any doubts. This brings me back to the national center and the public center, as mentioned here in this duality. I can imagine that during the legislative process here in the House, during the committee hearing, this problem will be eliminated. I also assume the active synergies of the National Security Office with the relevant committees that will deal with this bill, so that the NSA prepares, say, an alternative solution for the needs of the Chamber of Deputies and it was not necessary to prepare proposals in the form of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking if the rapporteur wants to speak with the final word. He doesn't want to. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Security Committee, and then I noted the rapporteur Václav Klučka's proposal on the commandment of this law to the Defence Committee. I'm asking if there's anyone else. Mr. Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, given that this law also affects, or can also affect, the banking sector, I would also suggest ordering the Committee on Budgets. I'm sure the Banking Sub-Committee will also deal with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u17	I thank Mr Votav. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? Mr. Fichtner. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u18	Thank you. I would also propose the commandment of this press to the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-005-032.u19	The Constitutional Committee. Well, that's all the suggestions. I also noted the motion to extend the deadline for discussion of 30 days, which we will vote on following the commandment. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to the Security Committee. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this proposal to the Security Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 145; 164 Members are registered, for 137, against none. Another proposal made by Mr Václav Klučka is a motion on the commandment of this law to the Defence Committee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is for the command of the defense committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is the 146 vote, 165 Members signed up for 136, against none. Mr Votava has proposed to order this law to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? In the vote number 147, 165 Members registered, for 139, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. I also have a motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee from Mr Fichtner. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 148, 165 Members registered, for 94, versus 36. This proposal has also been adopted. The final proposal is a proposal for an extension of the deadline for discussion of 30 days. I am opening the vote on the proposal for an extension of the deadline for discussion of 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 149, 165 Members signed in, for 143. The deadline was extended by 30 days. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered by the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Security and the Constitutional Law Committee, and that the deadline has been extended by 30 days. That concludes the first reading of this bill. I thank the Prime Minister and the rapporteur. Next, we'll be dealing with point 49. It's...
