ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to information on the environment, as amended /German press 298/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Environment, Mr Richard Brabec. I beg you, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this point after the difficult start, which certainly warmed us to operational temperature, will be easier because it is a technical amendment. The aim of this bill is to ensure full compatibility of the Czech legislation with the INSPIRE Directive, which is a directive of the European Community of 14 March 2007 on the establishment of an infrastructure for so-called spatial information in the European Community, in such a way that the Czech Republic avoids the initiation of infringement proceedings on the Functioning of the European Union by the Commission, i.e. the so-called infringement. The INSPIRE Directive lays down rules for establishing a European spatial data infrastructure. The basic principle of the directive is that spatial data are to be collected and created by only one entity. Furthermore, ensuring the possibility of combining spatial data from different sources and ensuring easier searching and publishing of spatial data. In January 2013, the Commission drew the Czech Republic's attention to some shortcomings in the transposition of the directive in the so-called pilot project, or EU Pilot. The issue of criticism was, in particular, the lack of or incorrect transposition of certain definitions and concepts, the incorrect transposition of the requirements of the directive, so that the reasons for denying access to spatial data could be interpreted in a restrictive manner. The proposal submitted constitutes a technical amendment specifying the existing legislation on the making available of spatial data. There are no substantive changes in the material in question. The proposed proposal therefore introduces new legal definitions of certain terms, such as metadata or spatial data services, and the rule that, in the case of continuously updated large volume data, payment for viewing services can only be required if such remuneration serves to ensure the maintenance and maintenance of spatial data, as well as the obligation to restrict the interpretation of the reason for refusal of access to spatial data. This bill was approved by the Government on 27 August 2014 and does not entail any relevant impact on the state budget and the entities concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Miloš Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the amendment to the Act on the Right to Information on the Environment is merely an amendment of a technical nature. The purpose of its submission is to correct the shortcomings in the transposition of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2007 establishing an infrastructure for spatial information in the European Community. Specifically, it introduces e.g. new legal definitions of certain terms, e.g. metadata, spatial data services, and the explicit requirement that metadata always include information on the amount of remuneration for the disclosure of spatial data, i.e. where remuneration is required at all. Explicitly then introduces into the law e.g.. obligations to restrict access to data only in exceptional and necessary cases. It is therefore only a minor amendment or clarification of the law following the text of the directive. Therefore, I recommend releasing the second reading and discussing the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate and registering two registered ones. With priority rights, Mr Stanjura and Mr Zahradník thereafter. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u6	Thank you for the floor. If we want to adopt laws that are fairly clear and understandable, it is not really this bill. I am a professional programmer and under metadata I imagine something completely different from what is in this proposal. Normal metadata mean -- and that's what all sorts of bullshit is about, who started the file, who repaired it, etc. And I'll just read you the draft text of the bill in Section 2 letters. h) and then try to advise me if you would like to explain to the voters what we have discussed and what we have actually achieved. The draft section reads: "The interoperability of the possibility of a combination of spatial data and communication between spatial data services without repeated manual interventions in order to achieve a coherent result and to increase the added value of spatial data and spatial data services'. I don't want to criticize the Minister, he certainly didn't write it. Me for myself, and I think for my colleagues at the club, I'm saying that we don't know what the section is about. I'd like someone to translate it into Czech for us on a microphone before we let it go on. Because if we adopt such laws, it is possible for officials who will interpret what interoperability is the possibility of a combination of spatial data and to increase the added value of spatial data and services based on spatial data. I don't think it has any logic, it's not Czech, it doesn't understand. Maybe we can wash it off quickly, but I'm reluctant to use that procedure. I see the two letters in that title, the EU does, but today our Commissioner said we shouldn't be more skeptical than Brussels, okay? And that's what I think we're in this case. And most importantly, the language is completely insane. So if anyone wants to accept it, let them write it in Czech. Not like this. Because we really have no idea in my opinion - and those who read it have no idea what we want to approve or what we possibly approve, but on this basis we can prosecute someone and enforce something. And that's very problematic. So I'm really asking for an explanation. And I quote one paragraph. I could quote others, which are equally quality Czech language, or not Czech language written. That's what I don't think we should take. We should know what it's all about. The last sentence: added value of spatial data on spatial data... I don't understand. And I say I'm a professional programmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u7	Thank you. The rapporteur is reporting to the debate, so I will give the rapporteur the floor and after that Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u8	For everyone else, but especially for Mr Stanjura, I would like to set the right stage for what the term metadata is. Metadata is actually a birth certificate from spatial data. Because, in fact, the metadata tell us who processed spatial data, and it is actually a manual for the same data to be entered in the individual Member States of the European Union, according to the same key, so that information that is about spatial data is visible both in Germany and in the Czech Republic and throughout all European Union states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u9	Thank you. I have here a factual remark from President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u10	That's really not enough to explain. And I'm sorry, metadata aren't manuals. I really don't. Some may say so, but metadata are not a manual, as you said a moment ago, Mr rapporteur through Mr President. That's just not true. It's not true. And if you consider this to be an explanation that anyone who reads the law would understand what he was going to say... I was saying what I understand as metadata-- who wrote it, when he edited it, etc. All of us know that, or many of us know that. But here we are - information that describes spatial data or services based on spatial data. I would therefore like to know what information is described by spatial data services as an example. I really don't understand. This is no opposition rhetoric or anything, because I have no idea what those authors who wrote it were trying to tell us. I don't know which one of us. You said it was special for me, but I don't think I'm the only one. If I were the only one in this Chamber of Deputies who didn't understand, I'd accept it. But I can't believe I'm the only one. But really, I'm sorry, Mr. rapporteur through the Vice-President, just data is data, can't be a manual. The manual is something that describes how to use software that works with data. We don't have to argue about that. But what happens if we don't accept it? I wonder. Why don't we just throw it in the trash? We will not find the added value of spatial data and services based on spatial data. I don't think anything's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u11	Thank you. Mr Zahradník is a duly logged in to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, in fact, now follow up on my colleague Stanjura, the degree of harmfulness of this law on the scale of the harmfulness of the laws we adopt, compared to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, have placed very low. The EIA Act is far, far more harmful. That's what we have to deal with. I would like to comment on this, not that I would like to criticize the meta-language that is written by the law, the new language that we are somehow translating here, translating European English. I'd rather think about the real substance of what the law is talking about. It's the right to environmental information. This is something that my generation, perhaps more like the generations of my peers who then lived in northern Bohemia in times called. real socialism, she just didn't. The fact that the environment has deteriorated, namely that the quality of the environment, i.e. air quality, it's bad that it may not meet some of our limits today, moms only learned when their kids started coughing more than usual. That wasn't the right to information at the time. So underneath that, you have to imagine it. We therefore have and are trying to protect the right to environmental information. I think everyone on the Internet today, on TV, will get this information on the radio, and they can adjust their lifestyle accordingly. The fact that we exceed the limits in some exposed places of our country in February, when we cross the annual limit in February, is simply that and unfortunately, we will certainly still be expressing ourselves here. [[16.40 hours]] I would like to mention one more thing here, and that the legislator is aware of some sensitivity of certain data, which is why the section here also talks about limitation and possible refusal of access to spatial data. That's § 11d. Some data are so sensitive that access to them can be restricted or denied. It's interesting how we're getting our attention again from the magical concept that we've often mentioned here at the last point, and that's public interest. At the time, it was a public interest in whether a parcel could be converted from agricultural land into a building plot, which I believe is decided by a single instrument for determining the public interest, and that is the municipal plan, or by a regional development strategy. It's something much different here. The original text of paragraph 2 (c) states: "The public access can only be restricted if the public interest in restricting access outweighs the public interest in accessing spatial data'. In the original text, there were two public interests coming into conflict here, and we certainly need to ask questions and ask who decided which of the public interests is greater, which is more significant. A lawmaker who changes the law introduces a new text here. And here he has certainly realized the conflict of public interest: public access can only be restricted in the necessary cases, if interest prevails - I note, no longer public - to restrict access to the public interest in accessing spatial data. So we are once again in a very sensitive position here, on the very sensitive ground of who and when, in fact, will be able to deny citizens the right to environmental information. And that is what I think is a matter that calls for careful thought, careful explanation, and therefore a proper discussion at second reading. I have recommended to the Civil Democratic Party that we approve this law at first reading, advance it to second reading, and, of course, there we will try to submit it to some changes and adjustments, to make it more understandable and to ensure that the right to information is indeed provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-002-019.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I do not see anyone enrolled in the debate or with a factual remark. Okay, I'm done with the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment. I'm asking if anyone else has another suggestion? I don't. We will take the vote. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 22. The Members present are 167, for the proposal were 127 Members, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment. I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point.
