ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u1	1. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and on the Amendment of Some Other Acts, as amended /German Press 153/ - Second Reading Please have Senator Jaroslav Zeman present the proposal for the plaintiff, whom I welcome among us. I ask him to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u2	Hello, Mr President, hello, honourable Government, honourable Members. Let me briefly remind you, on behalf of the Senate, of the Senate's amendment to Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and amending some other laws, as amended. The proposal submitted to the collection, collection or purchase facility operator means that if the waste purchase ban provided for by law by natural persons is violated in its facility, the authorisation to operate may be revoked. This means that only one-off breach of such an obligation will be sufficient, and not as it has been repeated, and the Regional Authority will be entitled to revoke or amend its consent to operate the collection, respectively. equipment for the recovery and disposal of waste collection or purchase. Any amendment or amendment to the law that will help reduce crime is definitely an asset.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u3	Thank you, Senator. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on the Environment at first reading. The Committee's resolution was delivered as press 153/2. Rapporteur He did not say he was excused, so I ask Mr Zemk to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u4	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to take the liberty of representing my colleague Nekl. I have a resolution from the Committee on the Environment, which adopted this resolution at its meeting on 19 June, in which it recommends: The Chamber of Deputies will accept this amendment, which was delivered under number 153/2. There was accepted an amendment as a comprehensive amendment to the Senatorial and you have it under this number. I'm not gonna read it all, I'm sure you've all met him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u5	Yes, thank you. If this is all from the rapporteur, I thank him for the report and we will proceed to the general debate. I have two proper applications and one factual comment. It's proper. So in that case, Mr Kučera, Mr Zahradník, and then Mr Adamec, will speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little sorry that my fellow rapporteur has moved quite quickly over the amendments that are quite fundamental to this law, which I think is also the right one that came from the Senate. They attach amendments that fundamentally change waste management. The Senate amendment to the Waste Act addresses the issue of the purchase of secondary raw materials and associated crime. That's, like I said, the right procedure. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Environment is once again trying to take advantage of the opportunity and fundamentally address the management of municipal waste in the framework of this amendment, even though similar amendments were withdrawn at the last meeting by the Minister of the Environment Brabc directly with the words: "We have taken into account the whole debate that took place in the second reading, a number of other debates with experts, and we have decided not to support the amendments and we will continue the expert debate on key issues." I find that the professional debate has probably already been held, it has been very rapid, rapid, when similar amendments were tabled a few weeks ago. I don't want to think about who, who, where, and how quickly he discussed professionally. [[15.10 hours]] The Czech Republic has the biggest problem with the implementation of the landfill directive, where Member States have undertaken to reduce the share of landfilling of biodegradable municipal waste. These are kitchen and garden waste, wood, paper and cotton waste etc. Here I understand the request of the Ministry of the Environment that municipalities also introduce a separate collection of biodegradable waste, called brown bins. However, the requirement of the directive can be met in two ways - either the waste is recycled or the waste is burned. Energy and raw materials are the most advantageous combination of both, that is to recycle about 60 to 70 percent and burn the rest. The problem with the amendment, which the rapporteur referred to only about one sentence, is that it prohibits the landfill of any usable, recyclable and incinerated municipal waste. It practically forces cities and regions to take care of both at the same time. They can only do this in one way - to build incinerators where they will dispose of the waste. The correct procedure is, of course, to take care of the waste in two steps - first to build a very good recycling, and then to burn the residual, non-recycled waste. However, the amendment does not allow this, because it set a very short term for which regions and cities will not have time to introduce recycling first, and then to deal with burning. They'll be forced to use a quick solution, which means they'll be quick to deal with through the incinerators. The ban on landfilling incinerated waste is not the original idea of Mr Oklešťek at the time, although I think his name will be mentioned for a very long time in connection with the Waste Act. It is a proposal that has been unsuccessfully promoting the combustion lobby in the European Union for a long time. Vehemently, we also lobby the heating association for him. No wonder. The amendment means that the law requires cities and regions to ban heat companies from disposing of waste. There is no ban on the landfill of incinerated waste in European directives. If the Czech Republic wanted to be very strict, it could, for example, prohibit the landfill of biodegradable waste. Here we go again beyond the requirement of the European directive. What is really striking is that even an analysis of the economic effects of this measure, the so-called RIA, has not been carried out on the ban on landfilling usable - i.e. incinerated - waste. So we can only estimate what costs this requirement will bear from 2024 onwards. It is evident that it will be necessary to invest in expensive technologies and that these costs will be paid. It is therefore also most appropriate to allow waste treatment with a wide range of different technologies to compete. And I point out again that we don't know the cost. Minister Brabec certainly knows that there are studies, such as studies by Charles University, which examined both variants at the request of the Ministry of the Environment in 2003. It calculated that high recycling combined with burning residues has lower investment and operating costs than the construction of incinerators. And if the Minister doesn't know, he'll find it in a drawer at the Ministry of the Environment. Of course, I am willing to consider the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment to reduce the share of landfill waste which is not subject to charging, so-called technical security of landfills. The Ministry of the Environment responds here to the SAO's information that the designation of waste as technical security of landfills is losing the State Environmental Fund huge resources from landfill charges. Therefore, the requirement to limit these leaks seems justified. I would like to point out that no one supports the amendments. Neither municipalities, nor the public, nor even environmental organisations. So who do we make the laws for? Who are we going to approve this amendment for today? We will not approve it for municipalities that do not agree with it, we will not approve it for environmental organisations that do not agree with it. Even the Association of Professionals doesn't agree with that. All I can think of is incinerators. For these reasons, the TOP 09 MEP refuses to reduce the time limit for discussing these proposals. The TOP 09 Members' club requests a hearing within a proper period of 60 days. Now allow me a few more words on the amendment concerning the regulation of the Senate Waste Act itself. Press 153 is an amendment to the Waste Act, which was intended only to address the issue of waste collection, in a consensual version that passed through the Senate, government and first reading in the House. Senator Zeman's original Senate proposal was rejected by the Senate Constitutional Law Committee, also by the Committee on the Environment and Economic Affairs. The Constitutional Committee has proposed a sensible wording and this has also been passed by the government. 19 days. 6th of this year, however, the Parliament's Committee on the Environment was read again in the opinion of the Senate by the unconstitutional proposal of Senator Zeman for collections. So what happened in the Senate to get closer. Senator Zeman came up with a proposal for a ban on the collection of metal waste, it was originally printed in 196, which was subsequently downloaded by the petitioner and was reloaded as a print 153, but was designed as a ban in the form of a generally binding decree, OZV, a municipality on any facility, it is also on composting plant, because all installations have the approval of the regional authority according to § 14. Senator Wagnerová and Senator Antl, after their speech, said the inconclusiveness of this proposal in the following text: It is not possible to veto and interfere with the decision of the government when the self-government is a party to the administrative procedure and also has territorial planning as a regulatory one. Thus, by means of a generally binding decree, each meeting of the council could be amended by a system, a place, for any waste facility. If the amendment was adopted, the concept of law would be weakened under Article 26 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 The Charter as an institutional guarantee to the autonomous sphere of an individual, in which public authority is not entitled to intervene. That's the findings of our colleagues in the Senate. I believe that the House will also maintain common sense and approve the Senate proposal in its original version, as it passed through the Senate, and will reject the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u7	Mr Schwarz withdraws a point of fact. Mr Zahradník has the floor, after which Mr Adamec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on this proposal, which is presented here as House Press 153, as a second attempt to bring a ban on landfilling into our legal system. Unlike my colleague, Mr Kučera, I would rather focus on the various parts of the proposal and I would like to submit them to my commentary or criticism. I would start with § 17 para. 3 which in particular refers to biodegradable waste. Here it must be said that his collection is quite good experience. Brown trash cans are in a number of our towns and villages and actually do their job and purpose quite well. However, I must note that on the labels placed on them, it is ordered that citizens store biological waste of plant origin in these bins. The proposal we have here, however, does not take this into account and may also allow us to dump and, where appropriate, to dispose of non-plant waste, i.e. waste, which is produced in kitchens and other facilities. So that's where we'd like to add that it's vegetable waste. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 3 is, in my opinion, inappropriate also for legislative reasons. It says that the Ministry can provide details of the scope and method of ensuring separate concentration of municipal waste. We must be aware that waste management is part of the community's own remit, or only the municipality is entitled by its decree to regulate the method of collection and management of municipal waste, i.e. not the Ministry. [[15.20 hours]] Furthermore, what is quite dangerous is paragraph 1. 6, which introduces a parallel system of collection of municipal waste on the basis of contracts that lie outside the system of management established by the municipal decree, based on contracts, but standing against this system, which works very well today, in contradiction. It would be possible that these things could lead to misuse of this system and leakages from the municipal waste collection system. What, in my opinion, is in order and we, as Members, will support the Civil Democratic Party, in Section 18 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11 and 12 newly inserted, which establish the possibility for municipalities to determine at what time municipal waste collections can be opened, or where such collection can be established. The objective is clear - to prevent these collections from being opened during the night hours, which is one of the sources of criminal activity related to these collections, especially as regards metallic waste, and also of course not to be established where the citizens of the municipality are harassed, i.e. in the neighborhoods of family houses. Another problematic paragraph is § 21 para. 7 which strictly prohibits the storage of mixed municipal waste and recyclable and usable waste provided for by implementing legislation on landfills since 2024. This is indeed a crucial issue, which we are setting up quite considerable problems for the future, and Mr Kučera here spoke about it. The alternative for landfilling is sorting and recycling, which is not much discussed here, and also combustion. I therefore do not consider the incineration of municipal waste, i.e. its energy use, to be inappropriate or unacceptable. I think we will certainly have to approach this method and allow the energy use of municipal waste. The question is, however, how do we manage to build such combustion plants at the time we have left, which is ten years old, which would be useful, beneficial, suitable, but also economically advantageous for their founders, operators. It is known that such an incinerator in order to function economically requires 100,000 tons of waste per year, which is quite difficult to obtain without the citizens in the vicinity of the incinerator being disturbed by the unnecessary transport of municipal waste. I think this is one of the basic reasons why we're not going to be positive about this. On the other hand, what we want to be positive about is paragraph 1. 9 in this new paragraph, which says that if an operator breaks the ban on the purchase of waste provided for by the implementing regulation, it may be sanctioned. That is what I think is appropriate and, in our opinion, it is appropriate. So how do we not support some of the proposed proposal that we have here, from the 153 press, to support some things? One of the options I see is to ask the House to vote separately on the various points of these proposals. Here I am not sure whether my intention will be supported and whether we will be given the opportunity to vote positively on those parts of the proposal that we want to support. That's why I decided to take a different approach. The procedure is that we have prepared those parts that we want to support as the Citizen's Democratic Party Club as a special amendment, which I am revisiting and which I will read when the President opens up a detailed debate, which I will then sign up to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I have to combine the applications I have registered here with what's on the board. So first was Mr Adamec, then Mr Zemek, and then the time will come for Mr Kudela. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good day. I won't talk long. There's been a lot going on here. However, I confess that gambling with a topic such as incinerators versus landfills seems really very, very strange to me if we ever want to build incinerators, and I believe that we want to, because it's probably a more gentle way to dispose of waste that when it doesn't end up in the country, that's good. However, I think that it is necessary to be cautious and that this cannot be dealt with by amendments such as Mr Oklešťek's bleak proposal - I did not mean anything wrong now. You know, there's been a lot of talk here today about tax cuts. I don't think anyone likes to pay taxes, but nobody likes to pay taxes. And local taxes are also taxes. What are we gonna say to each other? That's what it's called. And if we want to pave the way for charges to rise in our municipalities in this way, that's the right way to go. And I don't think any of us want that. And the next thing you know, it's kind of a guinea pig. In fact, today the waste management is in the gesture of self-government, which is more or less responsible to the council, or the mayor, who is responsible for everything in the village. And here, de facto, the charges will be raised by someone completely different, as they count in these proposals, but people will go around cursing the mayor and saying that he is responsible for the fact that the burning fee is higher. I think that this is really a debate over a proper government proposal for such a law that it needs to be prepared very honestly, because the worst thing is to gamble with the opinions and feelings of our own citizens. And I think there's a very serious threat to cases like this. So I would ask that this not happen in this way, really, waste management is a very serious matter. If we really want to add to the future those incinerators that have their problems, logistics, economic profitability, and, at the same time, not to burden our citizens, let us do this honestly and let us not try to solve this with the folk creativity of individual Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u11	Mr Zemek has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. As rapporteur, I didn't want to deal with legal issues. There I merely presented as the rapporteur for the resolution of the Committee on the Environment. And now a few notes in a proper application. Of course, the novel can be divided into two parts. The first part relates to the buyout in the metal ransom. The second part, which was added to the Committee on the Environment, concerns the waste law itself and addresses two issues. It deals with a ban on landfilling after 2024. The other thing is that at this point, we are already at risk of infringement from the European Commission on the non-sorting of biological waste and metals, which is also addressed by this amendment. I didn't find anywhere in that novel that there was somewhere and priori forced to burn the municipalities or, on the contrary, they were forced to recycle. The amendment is merely of a general, general nature. He's just pointing out that in ten years, the fact is going to happen here, and I think ten years is a long enough time. I would not agree with my colleague Kučera here to prepare these municipalities for this fact that landfill will be prohibited. I'm going to leave aside if the burners, the dumpers or the recyclators have the upper hand now. This amendment is about to draw attention to the fact that is here and that is irresistible. I believe that, with the right waste management, the increase for citizens for fees may not be so significant and we will not avoid it. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. And now, please, to the microphone for Mr Kudela's general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u14	Hello, Madam President, hello, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members. In connection with the Waste Act, there is also often talk of biodegradable waste. These are usually used in outputs which have the character of fertilisers used in agriculture. Control of the quality of fertilisers is carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is therefore good that the authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture should also be involved in setting conditions for the work and processing of biodegradable waste. In a detailed debate, I will propose a minor adjustment so that the Ministry of Agriculture already participates and cooperates in the development of implementing legislation relating to the management of biodegradable waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u15	Thank you, Mr Member, and since I no longer have an application for a general debate, I am ending the general debate. Before we launch a detailed debate, I will read the apology of Mrs Anna Putnová, who apologizes for the meeting meeting from Tuesday 15. 7:00 p.m. to Thursday 17. Seven to nine o'clock, for family reasons. I am now initiating a detailed debate in which I have Mr Kudela's envoy. I ask that Mr Zahradník be prepared afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u16	Hello again. I'm going to read a very short proposal for an adjustment. In Section 73 of the Waste Act, the existing text is numbered as paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 is added as follows: The Ministry of Agriculture cooperates in the development of implementing legislation relating to the management of biodegradable waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u17	Thank you and now please Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal looks like this: the amendment to the Senate Bill amending Act 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and amending certain other laws, as amended by the last regulations, is a House press 153. Article Roman One to edit as follows: 1. In Article 14, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 reads: Paragraph 7. In the procedure for granting consent to the operation of waste collection or purchase facilities and its operating rules, the Regional Authority shall decide in accordance with a generally binding decree pursuant to Section 18 (1). 11 if issued. 2. In Article 18, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3, 4 and 5 the words "paragraphs 11' are replaced by the words "paragraphs 13'. 3. In Article 18, the following paragraphs 11 and 12 are inserted after paragraph 10, including footnote 56: The municipality may, by a generally binding decree, provide that waste collection or purchase facilities may be operated only at the places and at the time specified by that decree, or determine at which places and at which time the operation of the collection or purchase facilities in the municipality is prohibited. This is without prejudice to other legislation, indent 56, for example Act No. 247/2006 Coll., on restrictions on the operation of pawnshops and certain other establishments at night. Paragraph 12. The municipality is obliged to inform the Regional Authority and the Trade Authority of the adoption of the Order pursuant to paragraph 11 within 15 days of the date of its approval by the representative. The decree may not take effect until the expiry of that period. Paragraph 11 shall become paragraph 13. 4. In Article 78, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the comma is replaced by a semicolon at the end of the text and the following shall be added: a general binding decree pursuant to Section 18 (1) shall also be deemed to be amended: 11. In paragraph 12, point 9 is introduced: in Section 78, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (b) the words "or violate the prohibition on the purchase of waste laid down in implementing legislation by natural persons" shall be inserted after the words "in legislation." And then Article 2 is amended as follows. Transitional provisions. Administrative proceedings pursuant to § 14 para. 1 of Law No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, which was not finally completed before the entry into force of this Act, will be completed in accordance with the existing legislation. And two. The operator of a waste collection or purchase facility operated prior to the entry into force of this Act into the territory of the municipality, which is generally bound by this Act laying down the conditions for the operation of that facility, shall be obliged to adapt these conditions to the operation of the plant no later than 12 months after the entry into force of the generally binding decree of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u19	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Zemk's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u20	Thank you. I would take the liberty of applying to the amendment. It's under House press number 1064. This applies to § 17 para. 3 where, in its amendment to the Committee on the Environment, the municipality is obliged to secure sites for the collection of biological waste, and my amendment actually regulates, or rather dissolves the conditions for smaller municipalities where the management of biological waste is secured through domestic composting or some community composting plants, so it is such a mitigation of the conditions for small municipalities and I would advocate for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-002-001.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Given that I no longer have anyone enrolled in the detailed debate, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the appellant if he is interested in the final words. [[No.]] The rapporteur, the final words? This is not the case, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
