ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u1	67. Summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2012 /German press 48/ I will begin with a simple matter - by welcoming the representative of the Ombudsman, doktor Stanislav Křeček, whom I welcome among us, and ask him to sit at the rapporteur's table. The rapporteur is Karel Fiedler, and the rapporteur is Mr Jan Chvojka. I ask both of them to prepare for their intelligence reports. We will discuss the Ombudsman's summary report for 2012 according to the House of Press 48. I therefore ask the Ombudsman's representative Stanislav Křeček to present this report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Why is the 2012 report under discussion in 2014, you must know, I do not have to mention it here. Of course, there are some general lessons to be learned from this report, which will also be presented in the 2013 report in just a few weeks, so I don't think we need to discuss this any more. I would only stop at one part of the report, namely the recommendation of the protector, which he addressed two years ago to the legislatures. The question of the Ombudsman's proposals addressed to the legislatures has recently become a major problem and a major debate and, as if, a measure of the ombudsman's powers, as well as the responsibility of the Chamber of Deputies. I certainly don't feel that way. I do not think that the Ombudsman is the overseer of the House, the legislature. I believe that the legislatures have their responsibility, their political responsibility. The responsibility of the Ombudsman is somewhat different, and I do not think that, whether it is, or not, his recommendation is satisfied that it would say anything about his powers or even the quality of the legislature. These are quite different things in my opinion. The recommendations that we addressed in 2012 were, above all, the provision of free legal assistance. In fact, as I have found in the committees, many of you do not see this as a serious problem, but it turns out that with the new legislation, especially the new Civil Code, there is an urgent need to ensure free legal assistance to those who are unable to obtain qualified legal aid from their own resources. We are expanding regulations in which it is difficult to navigate without professional legal assistance by a normal person who is not legally educated. Not to mention the fact that people who are legally educated are also hard to learn about them, but that is another chapter. So we think this is one of the constant problems. I think many of you feel that way. It will undoubtedly be necessary to address this issue in the future. The second recommendation we addressed was the housing of people at risk of social exclusion. Social housing. This is one of the most serious problems of our republic. I do not think or do not belong to those who believe that the social housing law will solve anything. The law does not build us an apartment, no house, it does not impose any new obligation on someone, but the question of social housing is the question of housing people who are unable to pay for their housing in the free market is one of the serious problems. You know that the law on material distress has recently been discussed, which has fortunately been withdrawn, because that is not the case. If the government already decides, or if the state decides to contribute to housing to these people, we cannot say in the second sentence of the law that we will only give it to them for three months, because in those three or six months the situation will be the same. The third recommendation concerned the social system card, with Karty. It worked itself out. The protector didn't directly suggest cancellation, but some improvements, but that's no longer a problem. Last time, we talked about the absence of an explicit indication of the priority of integration in the school law. We recommend that the government adopt an amendment to the school law, which explicitly provides for the priority of individual integration of pupils. You know that's one of the serious problems. If we are to do something about one of the serious problems of our society, the integration of certain groups of people, we need to start with children. If we don't start with the children, we won't solve this problem. So it's one of the serious problems. On the contrary, the other two recommendations have become subject to the fact that, on the contrary, the Chamber of Deputies is listening to this report. The amendment of the judicial fee for the lodging of an anti-discrimination action, the exemption from the judicial fee for the administrative action of employment will be accepted, the Members took it as their proposal, or it will be presented, as well as the transparency of economic business entities. [[unintelligible]] This issue will also be adopted as a parliamentary proposal. So it is not true that the Chamber of Deputies is completely rejecting these proposals. On the contrary, these three proposals were adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to waste my time. I believe that the task of the Ombudsman is to take care of the performance of public administration, to give legislative proposals resulting from its knowledge as feedback, as the Ombudsman has great experience in the life of ordinary people. On the other hand, in my view, it is not the task of the Ombudsman to judge the political decisions of the legislatures or to test some recommendations in this sense, as we hear some of these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u3	I thank the representative of the Ombudsman Stanislav Křečka for his opening words and will now state that the report has been discussed by the Committee on Petitions and the Constitutional Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The resolution was delivered to you as House prints 48/1 and 48/2. As the first rapporteur of Mr Karel Fiedler's petition committee, please inform us about the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u4	Good morning, Mr President and all present. Most of the basic information, or the essential information here, has already been presented by Dr. Křeček. I'm just gonna try to introduce a few, and I'm gonna try to be brief. From the report presented, I note once again that we are discussing the 2012 report, so it is already over a longer period, the 2012 report shows that opinion disagreements with institutions occur in particular in relation to the government, which very often does not accept or amend the proposals and recommendations of the protector after recognition of the proposals by subsequent measures. [[11.10 hours]] In this chapter, I would mention here the action against the authorisation of photovoltaic power plant in the cadastral territory of Moldova in the Ore Mountains, where there was a major breach of the construction law when the construction was allowed and implemented in a free landscape, in an unbuilt territory, and therefore contrary to the basic objective of building regulation, which is the protection of the built-up territory. The public administration as a whole has not been able to remedy these unlawful practices and, given the intensity of lawlessness, it must be noted that the public administration has presented itself as inactive and ineffective. That is why the protector has taken action. For 2012, a record number of complaints were filed. The report states that social work at the contact points is either not carried out or is being carried out to an insufficient extent. I would also draw attention here to the part of the report on the provision of housing supplements on a non-rental housing form. In his work, the protector focused particularly on the question of ceilinging the costs of the hostel, when, with effect from 1 January 2012, there was a change in legislation, which was also to be reflected in a change in the practice of the authorities. Since that date, the Act on Material Assistance has been amended to allow a person in material distress who lives in the hostel to contribute to the level of actual costs, but to the maximum level of the normative housing costs, which are determined by the Act on State Social Support. However, in the context of local investigations, it was found by the protector that this legal limit was not accepted by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic when deciding on the levy. I would also mention the information provided in Chapter 7 concerning the Authority's management. In the 2012 budget, 8 million 495 thousand CZK were saved, i.e. 9.05 percent of the planned budget. These savings were mainly achieved in the overhead area, i.e. for the purchase of telecommunications services, energy and savings for the use of mail and other overhead costs. I ask myself: If the Ombudsman's Office was able to save 9 percent of its budget on operating expenditure in 2012, why couldn't they manage other budget chapters with similar savings? However, the special point is that this Ombudsman's Office, which made savings in 2012, proposed electricity spending in the same volume as in 2013, in addition, which does not correspond to Government Resolution No. 729 of 25. 9. 2013 on the reduction of electricity expenditure by 10 per cent of the originally planned amounts for 2014. I have to say, in general, that this is what I have come across in other chapters of the budget. Finally, I would like to quote from the final report today by the former Ombudsman, doktor Pavel Varvařovský. I quote: "The legal status of the Czech Ombudsman is not much different from his foreign colleagues. It has similar scopes and similar, i.e. almost no powers. Nothing orders, only recommends, tries to reduce passions and sharpen edges, advise and contribute to reconciliation." I further quote: "There is no more to say than a permanent Czech reality, in some ways even a trend towards worse. This is mainly demonstrated by the relatively dramatic increase in the incentives received by the Ombudsman's Office in 2012, and the will to implement legislative recommendations was significantly worse than in the previous year, i.e. sometimes almost none." Based on the above, it will be interesting to hear the reasons or suggestions of new candidates for the Ombudsman's Office, which lead them to pursue this post, for the administration with a budget of CZK 97.5 million for 2014, which according to the former Ombudsman's own words has almost no powers, but only recommends and suppresses, thus not resolves disputes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Karel Fiedler. I now ask that the rapporteur of the IDA, Mr Jan Chvojka, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and also present the motion for a resolution. I hope it's the same. Thank you. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Court of First Instance, which was addressed on 22 January this year in the current Summary Report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2012. Perhaps we need to start by telling ourselves why we are dealing with the 2012 report in 2014. It is because, last year, when the report was already in the ÚPV, the House's dissolution did not exactly discuss it at the House plenary, so we need to discuss it now. I would just like to start by saying, before I read the resolution, that I very much appreciate the work of the Ombudsman or his representative and the entire Ombudsman's office. Especially in a passage that recommends certain legislative measures, I think that this is a very good inspiration for the work of a Member or the work of a legislature. Therefore, the CIP in point II. and III. The resolution I will read deals with some legislative measures and recommends that the Ministry of Justice discuss certain points. I'd like your attention on points II. and III, because I think it's very interesting and important. So I would like to read the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the 3rd meeting of 22 January 2014. The resolution, as I have already mentioned, deals with the Ombudsman's summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2012, press 48, and the resolution reads as follows: Following the observations of the Ombudsman's representative, JUDr. Stanislav Křeček, rapporteur for the JUDr Committee. Jan Chvojka and, after the debate, the Constitutional Committee: I. Notes the Ombudsman's comprehensive report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2012, II. Calls on the Ministry of Justice to work up the Ombudsman's recommendation referred to in points 3/5, i.e. to adjust the amount of the legal fee for the filing of anti-discrimination actions, and point 3/6, that is to say, exemption from the judicial fee for administrative actions in matters of employment and welfare of foster care, as set out in the first part of the Ombudsman's Summary Report for 2012 into future amendments to the relevant laws and informed the Committee of its progress within 60 days. III. The Committee calls on the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance to draw up a legislative proposal complying with the Ombudsman's recommendation referred to in point 3/9, i.e. on the point of transparency of business operators' management, the first part of the General Report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2012 and asks the Government to submit this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament by 30 May 2014, IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to Parliament at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of the Ombudsman's comprehensive report on the activities for 2012 at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mrs Olga Havlová is the first to report to her. I therefore note the interest - to make a resolution, I will do so in a detailed debate, from the rapporteur on the petition committee, and I ask the representative of the Ombudsman if he also wants to comment. Yes. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been going over information about the Ombudsman's work and I must admit that I am unpleasantly surprised at how lightly his findings are being taken. What, then, is the meaning of this report? We in the Czech Republic have an institution that has the protection of citizens' rights in the job description, which tells us: Dear Government, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the people, in the Czech Republic citizens' rights are violated. I am very concerned that there are chapters in this report that summarize the years 2010 and 2011 which say that perhaps some things have not yet been settled. [[11.20 hours]] I quote from the report: "The ochránce regrets that his recommendation to the Chamber of Deputies in 2011 was not fulfilled at all, except for one exception. Only amendments concerning value added tax have been heard. Unfortunately, the recommendation on the establishment of local jurisdiction of executives rejected the House by its vote. Other things have not been dealt with in essence at all." A further 11 recommendations from the Ombudsman were submitted in 2012. I wonder what their destiny will be. We will vote on the resolution of the Committee on Petitions and Constitutional Law, in which, as Members, we will ask various ministries to incorporate the Ombudsman's recommendations into the relevant laws. I'm sure that's right. But is that enough? These recommendations should be taken seriously. However, we know from the past that the Government does not always respond as it would be, on the recommendation of the Ombudsman and the call of the Chamber of Deputies. I think we should consider that the Chamber of Deputies should have the power to impose directly on the government to deal with the Ombudsman's recommendation. The Government should either submit a relevant law to Parliament or change the behaviour of public institutions or authorities. In fact, if we know that our rights are being violated, we should act. And we all know that the government is the most effective way to deal with problems. A certain duty of government to address the Ombudsman's report, and not only to take note of it, would certainly be an asset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u9	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová. Now in the general debate, Mr Stanislav Křeček, representative of the Ombudsman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I very much appreciate what Mrs Havlová said, but I think there is a misunderstanding with regard to the powers and responsibilities of the Ombudsman in general. After World War II, the guarantees of democracy, free elections and independent judiciary so far have proved impossible to ensure democratic development. Both can be abused. That is why constitutional courts have begun to establish themselves. Courts who do not judge, decide matters, do not replace judicial power, but point out: You are violating the law. You're breaking the law. Decide yourselves who are responsible for this. And more than a hundred countries in the world have begun to create Ombudsmen who also do not replace government. They don't take decisions, they don't replace them, but they say, "You're breaking the law." In my opinion, you're breaking the law. And it is necessary not to replace the state authorities, but to let them decide to consider themselves. And, of course, there is the political responsibility of the legislatures and other voters. You're responsible to the voters, not us. The legislature is accountable to voters, and they must deal with whether or not to dispose of them. Let me give you an example from the last time. The Ombudsman criticised the Ministry of Justice for examining prisoners. To examine all the cavities that are on the human body, very often, at times, even in people who are not at risk, etc. We believe that this is a violation of human rights, unnecessary bullying. It's one of the things we haven't been granted. The Justice Department said, "Never mind, that's not our opinion, there's no violation, we have a different opinion." It's his responsibility and your responsibility to consider. But it would not be right for there to be some super-superior body to control how much the Chamber of Deputies has accepted, how much the government has accepted, etc. This is not the function of an Ombudsman anywhere in the world. The Ombudsman merely points out that something is happening in his opinion. But it is a matter of the authorities responsible to consider whether that is the case and to do so with their political responsibility. In my opinion, in order for the Ombudsman to be a politician or to replace them, address political decisions to them, it is not appropriate, correct, and it is not the position for which the Ombudsman was set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u11	I thank Mr Stanislav Křečka for his speech and I note that I have no further written application for the debate. - Yes, Mrs Miroslava Němcová is reporting for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was provoked to make a brief comment on the Ombudsman's speech, Dr Křeček. I remember the excited atmosphere in the Chamber of Deputies, when the deputy Ombudsman was elected by Dr. Křeček. I also remember the responses, which were not only legal in the community, but also based on the media scene, that he is a politician who sits in this position, a representative of one political party. I joined on the side of those who defended, defended the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and the election of Dr. Křeček to this office. And now, with a distance of time, I want to say that I think the choice was the right one. Dr. Křeček's speech, both the opening and the final one, confirmed to me that he honors the division of power in our country, that he honors the sovereignty of the Chamber of Deputies and the legislature as a whole, which, of course, receives recommendations not only from the Ombudsman's office but from various other layers. And it is up to him, on his responsibility, not only the legislature, but also the governments, in some way, to stand up to them and then defend their position before the public. I therefore think that the choice was correct, thank you to the Ombudsman's representative, that, in addition to the report he presented to us, he also stressed this view on how this function should look and how it should be exercised. Let me just make a brief comment on one of the rapporteurs who mentioned the budget of the Ombudsman's chapter. He mentioned that this chapter was perhaps the only one that saved some money in the state budget. I must correct this information by the rapporteur, because one of the chapters of the state budget is also the Chamber of Deputies. And the Chamber of Deputies has regularly budgeted 10 per cent of the nearly one billion budget in recent years since 2010, which it has, i.e. 100 million. crowns a year, saved. So I consider it necessary to say this here in order to avoid misunderstandings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u13	I thank Mrs Miroslava Němcová for her speech and ask if anyone is joining the debate. If this is not the case, I will conclude the general debate and we will discuss the debate in detail. Once again, Mr Karel Fiedler will be the first to be the rapporteur of the petition committee with a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u14	Hello, thank you again for the floor. I would like to add briefly to what has been said here that many of the things that have been said here have been said because it concerns the functioning, virtually. often the failure of the state administration, therefore the Ombudsman's office encounters these problems and, unfortunately, also the citizens of the Czech Republic. I will now read the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Petitions from the 3rd meeting of 14 January 2014 on the Ombudsman's summary report on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2012. Committee on Petitions: I. He discussed the Ombudsman's overall report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2012. II. It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolutions: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies 1. Notes the Ombudsman's summary report for 2012 according to Parliament's Press 48; 2. Calls on the Government to address the legislative initiatives mentioned in the introduction of the Summary Report of Part I. Generalisation of knowledge - recommendations to the Chamber of Deputies and to submit a report to the Chamber of Deputies on the use of these initiatives by 30. 9. 2014; [[11.30 hours]] III. Instructs the Vice-President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u15	Thank you. I am now asking the rapporteur of the constitutional committee of my colleague Jan Chvojka if he wants to repeat the motion for a resolution he made in the general report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would just refer to my speech in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u17	Thank you. Although individual resolutions are not identical, they are compatible and can therefore be supplemented. There is, therefore, nothing left to do but look at the motions for resolutions tabled by the Committees to the Chamber of Deputies. We will be the first to address the resolution of the Committee on Petitions, item II, which is more comprehensive with regard to the draft Constitutional Law Committee, that is to say, taking note and asking the Government to deal with the initiatives that are in the general section. I'm gonna sing. I'll try to ask other colleagues who are outside the O.R. to appear. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will therefore vote on point II. by the resolution of the Committee on Petitions, for both I. and II. in Arabic 2. There is no need for us to repeat the resolution. The vote that I have just begun has order number 55. I ask who is in favour of the motion for this resolution tabled by the Committee on Petitions. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 55 of 143 present for 142, against no Member. We can now add this resolution to the resolution of the Constitutional Committee, point II. and III., these are requests to the Ministry of Justice, point II., and a request to the Ministry of Finance, as presented by the rapporteur Chvojka. Does anyone have a request to vote separately, or can I put a vote on both parts at once? About both parts at once. No one has any objection. We will decide in the vote the order number 56, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the resolution tabled by the Constitutional Committee in paragraphs 2 and 3 of its resolution of 22 January. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 56 of the 146 present for 141, against no one. This resolution has also been approved. I therefore note that the resolution, as tabled by the Committee on Petitions and Constitutional Law, was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. I'm done with this point. Thank you to the representatives of the Ombudsman Stanislav Křečka, thank you to both rapporteurs. I'm done with point number one. 67. I'm registering a colleague Koubek's application. I'll wait a little longer. He's probably reporting in with a note. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry. But I witnessed a special meeting of Mr Sedláček's fellow Member here. Let me explain. This happened shortly before we were discussing the Ombudsman's activity at 11 o'clock. We discussed point No. 63 - Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the first half of 2013. At this table was the Minister of Finance, Mr. Andrej Babiš. I saw because I watched and watched the meeting at this table that Mr. Andrej Babiš, as he went from one place to another, forgot to log in and check out, or take a card. The Vice-President of the House has been so kind and has repeatedly brought this omission to his attention. The Minister of Finance always took the step he had, which means he took his card, checked out, applied. This item has been concluded, and the Minister of Finance has risen from this table and has gone to his seat, which is intended for the Minister of Finance. He didn't check out. Madam Vice-President Jermanová warned the Minister of Finance that he had forgotten to sign off on his light. The Minister of Finance has gestured something, and this is where Mr Sedláček came to this voting facility and signed off on the Minister of Finance. I would like to draw your attention, my colleague, to the fact that, under Article 26 of the Constitution, Members and Senators carry out their mandate in person in accordance with their promise and are not bound by any orders. The Minister of Finance was registered at this point, and if there was any vote at that time, you had at least influenced the treaty that was here. I ask you to explain this, this behavior of yours, through the President I ask you to do this, and, if it proves to be truly contrary to the Constitution, to apologize for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-013-067.u19	Thank you. Well, I assumed a different performance, but okay. I gave you my word, I let you finish. That's why I signed off on everyone present. So no one else could vote and no one could take advantage of a foreign card. I'm very careful with that, you've been through more than enough in this House - we've had these things here. If you insist, Mr Member, on your own, it is probably a matter for the mandate and immunity committee to address this report. The Chamber of Deputies will not deal with it without a report from the mandate and immune committee, because no one could use the card because I am before the vote on item No. 67 has all been withdrawn and no other vote has been taken before because item 63 has been interrupted without a vote before the end of the debate. So much for my message. If you object to the President's procedure, you may as well raise it. But we are not at another point, and I will not give a word to other Members who do not have priority rights, and I will start another point. The next item is
