ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u1	3. Law on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws /German press 82/7/ - returned by the President of the Republic The President of the Republic's position, stating his opposition to this law, has been delivered to you as House Press 82/8. First, I ask the plaintiff, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová if she wants to comment on the President's position. Madam Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to start by repeating why I think and really believe that this law is very important. It was created on the basis of various debates for about seven years and was created because there is a chronic shortage of places in kindergartens as well as in facilities for children under three which do not exist in our country. The requirement arose to a large extent from the bottom, when non-state nonprofit organizations and employers demanded legislation to be able to legally care for children so that they could supplement the network of kindergartens. In the course of the discussion on this adaptation, we have dealt with extremes, so to speak, from the right side, not in the political sense, but in the fact that some people have said that we should comply with the same, very strict hygiene standards that kindergartens observe for the children's group as an alternative form of preschool care, and on the other hand, the requirements for these standards to be fully relaxed. So, in my opinion, this law has finally become a kind of compromise between these two positions. During the years when the law was still being debated, however, nonprofit organizations actually found their way and began to pursue child care actually as a secondary activity through and under the trade law. Now, as we know, there's been a huge debate over the Children's Group Act. Turns out there's a kind of child care, a so-called forest kindergarten, which by law would be afraid we'd shut them down. I would like to point out here once again that forest kindergartens are already in the process of registering for the network of kindergartens, the Minister of Education has repeatedly talked about this, last time on Czech television today. Negotiations with the Ministry of Health on hygiene standards, especially for this type of facility, have already begun. Another part of the debate showed up when people in distress, charities and various organizations that we didn't even know about until the summer of this year started to provide care for children of such a kind that they actually substitute kindergartens. Until then, only the maternity centers in our ministry were acting, which had been openly admitting that they were providing such care all the time, but other organizations - I am stressing again - did not respond for the first time until this summer. All of a sudden, it turns out that there are a huge number of nonprofit organizations that fall into some sort of gray zone and substitute for a little bit of a black kindergarten. Of course, our interest is not, however, either to damage and close the forest nursery or in any way to these organisations. I'm just pointing it out. I wanted to say one more thing that I assume that the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club will come after me, who will explain that as coalition clubs you have agreed to submit, if the veto is overruled, the relevant amendment, so that optional registration is enacted. That means that all those organizations that suddenly woke up and started fighting the Children's Group Act will be able to calm down. Those who register, which is what employers really call for, and there are a lot of them, will benefit from the law. They will have tax discounts both employers and employers respectively. they will be able to write off the costs of running and setting up a children's group from taxes, tax reductions will also be granted to parents who put the child either in kindergarten or in a children's group. There will be no benefits for organisations that will not be registered under the law. This will also apply to money from the European Union, because in fact one of the arguments of organisations that do not want to register was - leave us alone, we do not want public money, we want to do it ourselves for parental consent. I intercede once again to support the proposal, as it is now, with the commitment to the next step, so no one has to worry. But I really think that the law is very important and, above all, employers and some nonprofit organizations have been waiting for it for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask whether the President's position is being expressed gradually by the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. She's sorry about the meeting today. In that case, the rapporteur of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, Mr Zdeněk Soukup. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have absolutely no reason to change my position. It was the original position that he committed me to, to which I was led by the majority opinion of the members of the House Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and Minorities. That's a plus for the adoption of the law and a minus for the presidential veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u5	Thank you. I ask whether the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Petr Kořenek also wants to comment. No, you don't want to comment on this as a rapporteur. Okay. I am opening up a debate where I am registering two registered with priority rights. He's President Okamura and Chairman of the Mihola Club. Before I give you my word, I have one point of fact - Mr Farský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to listen to the House in order to confess to these changes, but here, in this law, I am really confused. Because what is now being proposed for us to overrule, we were still told that none of the causes, Madam Secretary, would cause this law. That everything will be okay, that this bill will not endanger any children's clubs, will not endanger any youth organizations. We're already hearing here today that it's gonna be a threat, but we're gonna solve this with a quick amendment after we pass this bill in the wording in which he left the House. Oh, my God! We want to pass a law that we know is threatening and that is not working? So if we can prepare a quick novel and agree on a quick novel, why don't we just agree on a functioning law and approve it for the first time and properly? In such a way to prepare laws and to work in such a way, to express in contradiction and to promise something that will later turn out to be complete nonsense, is a desperate business card for the legislative work of the government, but also for this House, if this veto overrules. That is why I call on you not to lower ourselves in this way of legislative work. And it's a match on children's groups, it's a match on the final wording of the law. The club presidents gathered on it and made a deal. So let them make a proper law, and they don't force us to pass a law that we know in advance that the law is dangerous and dysfunctional. After all these statements, I don't believe that this novel is gonna go through and work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u7	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mrs Nina Nováková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to express myself for all those who have now listened to the Minister's statement, for all those who, in practice, are trying to take care of children in various forms, whether it be charity or various groups, and I am outraged by the fact that they are now being referred to here as something that suddenly emerged from some kind of darkness that was not known because it just worked. And it's not the people who take care of the kids now that they weren't known about them. When something works, there's no need to report it. I'm really outraged that they're talking about some gray zone in these people or something that's, like, semi-legal, etc. Life is a little different than that - people don't wait for what some ministry invents. They must live now at this time. That is why I am really upset again because someone is questioning in any way the quality of those who have cared for children and have not been in the official system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u9	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mrs Langšádlová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am enrolled in a detailed debate where I will comment on the law in more detail, but I would like to ask you strongly, here is a draft law that is identical to what we have here, only there is voluntary registration. We have this law prepared. We can already sign this law by a perfectly clean legislative process and we do not need to approve pasquila here and then possible amendments. The fact that the secretary here said that she didn't know about these forms of care and that it was de facto black-handed is absolutely alarming and outrageous for me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u11	Thank you. Another factual point is made by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise, perhaps I have made an inaccurate statement. But I am still convinced, as I was, that the parliamentary proposal that you voted mostly here is okay and that it will not endanger those organisations. I wanted to describe to you the situation that actually emerged in the summer, when organizations that had been pretending or not admitting that they really cared for children in kindergarten format suddenly appeared, and I don't question their work at all. I'm very grateful for their work. But until now, I believe that at least half of them would not fall under the Children's Group Act and that it would be okay, and I offered to help them. But the fact that they signed up late isn't really the department's fault. I repeat, in no way do I question, I just say that it is very interesting that this has surfaced at all in this debate, and for us it is a huge commitment to the future, because, as we know and as one resolution from the Chamber of Deputies has already said here in the debate on this law, we have to look at very strict standards that are intended for kindergartens and which are basically an obstacle to the establishment of normal official institutions that are caring for pre-school children, and in this regard there has also been negotiations with the Ministry of Health and will continue to take place. But I put it here so that we all know that the last seven or ten years are here because of bad rules, which are very strict on the one hand and very relaxed on the other hand, simply shows that pre-school care for children has been operating in a gray zone, which in no way calls into question the very useful work of these organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u13	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Farský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u14	I firmly believe we listen to each other. The Minister's words to me, which more or less question the need for this amendment, merely confirm the risk that we will pass the wrong law today, but there will be no will for the amendment in no time. I'll do it again. Madam Secretary here said that the amendment is not necessary from her point of view. I'm supposed to believe he'll be approved here? I don't, which is why I'm not voting for the law. And, as my colleague Langšádlová mentioned, the law is prepared in perfect form and slower than the adoption of this amendment in order to make it effective, it does not have to be if there is a will for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u15	Thank you. We will now proceed to the debate. I have two priority rights here. The first President of Okamura, after whom the President of the KDU-ČSL Mihola. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you the opinion of the Úsvit movement on this bill that the President of the Republic has returned to us after his veto. The Children's Group Act was originally intended to extend the possibilities of alternative care for pre-school children. Instead, we have once again slipped into a law that complicates something that has worked for years. Lawmakers should save laws and deal only with what is absolutely necessary, or, on the contrary, with excess or complicated standards gradually disturbing or simplifying them. It will be good to remember that the law applies to all facilities that provide childcare, so for example. It also affects children's centres, which are over 600 in the Czech Republic and which care about about 30,000 children. The rules of the new law, you don't want to, apply to other facilities for children. The Czech Council of Children and Youth estimates the negative impact of this law on another 10,000 children gathered in YMCA, Scout etc. I hear promises that a special solution is being prepared for forest kindergartens, which would have to be a new amendment to this new law, but also the remaining facilities have not yet been remembered. Forest kindergartens or Scout have been working very well for several years, even without the intervention of the government or the House, and even there it is necessary to comply with hygiene standards based on existing legislation. I myself visited the forest kindergarten, I don't know how many of you visited it, and in detail on the spot, in Prague 6, I informed myself. [[11.20 hours]] Unfortunately, the governments in this country and the House have been working very badly for years, and rather not fulfilling what they promised. In the case of law, one legal bastard after another. Let us be an example of a civil code or a service law, standards that were clear before the vote that they were extremely bad and that we will have to correct them and amend them immediately. In the case of this law, I cannot agree with the claim that has fallen here and falls in the whole context of the negotiation of this law that the wrong law is better than none. When I know the law is wrong, I'll see what's wrong, and if I can, I'll fix it, not that I'll push through the bad at all costs and promise to fix it some other time. Unfortunately, this has been the style of our House for decades, and unfortunately, this government has also begun to do so. But I think we should stop this for once, dear friends. Therefore, the Úsvit movement supports the veto of the President of the Republic, as we support the existence of forest kindergartens and children's centres where up to 40,000 children of the Czech Republic are coming into existence, and therefore we will not vote in favour of the existing wording of the law, which may mean the end of these well-functioning facilities, once again, where dozens of thousands of children in the Czech Republic are taking place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u17	I thank you and the President of Mihola with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u18	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to declare that the KDU-ČSL will support the vote of the President of the Republic. Here we have reached this change of attitude or position after complex negotiations, and I think that representatives of all political clubs, when I take it from left to right, know that I have been very concerned and communicated with all of them, that this is not really a random decision or just under the influence of someone or something, that it is also communicated with those involved in this matter, that is to say, including the Association of Forest Kindergarten Schools, the Council of Children and Youth and other groups concerned, which have already been mentioned here by the previous speakers. We respect the agreement in particular, and I would like to emphasise here, which fell actually on the coalition board on Monday, where the representatives of all three government parties preferred the solution to vote over the veto of the President of the Republic and the subsequent amendment, which will actually solve the problem, which would fall with the adoption of the Children's Group Act on those groups, starting with the forest kindergartens. I myself have worked with both possibilities, and I do not want to discuss too much here, which I would prefer and why, they were both on the table, how the new law, the parliamentary version that would go across the House, so here is the way to vote over the veto and subsequent amendments. As a member of the government party, I respect the agreement on Monday, with the assurance that it is guaranteed by the subsequent declaration by the presidents of the coalition parties' clubs. And I would like to point out here, before I comment on the agreement here, about what, actually, so that everyone knows what we've signed up for and what the coalition clubs have committed to, so I would like to say that KDU-ČSL supports children's groups, it has them in its programme that promised voters, so from our point of view, somehow not supporting children's groups would, of course, be wrong. So I stress: KDU-ČSL supports children's groups, but of course it bothers us that one law or solve simply a matter, partial resolution of the issue of shortage of places in kindergarten schools crashes the pre-school alternatives here. We did not want to accept that, and that is why we are actually coming up with the fact that, following the adoption of the Children's Group Act, a parliamentary amendment to the Children's Group Act will be submitted as soon as possible and will be supported by all three coalition clubs. I would like to stress that this amendment will contain these basic principles, which are actually the most discussed: optional registration of the provider, then specification of the benefit users, they will be provided to parents who use child care services in the children's group and in kindergarten under school law, not unregistered ones. Then also the terminology of the text, more precisely related to damage and damage, the terminology of the text. And the last important thing, there's going to be a transitional deadline for registration. So as soon as possible, I have a statement here signed by all three presidents of coalition clubs, and that's how it was agreed at the coalition board on Monday. If the Prime Minister were here, I'd give him the statement directly, at least I'd give it to the Minister, who I discussed several times in detail with. [[forwards the document to the Minister]] I would therefore like to stress that KDU-ČSL has confidence in the words of the club president, but also in the words of the Prime Minister, who actually promised this solution here at the coalition board on Monday. Thus, this solution is acceptable for us, i.e. that the President's veto will be overruled, a children's group law will be adopted, and an amendment will be adopted as soon as possible to address the issues that I have mentioned and which I have discussed. Even the participating groups know about it. Perhaps some of them would prefer the second version, which I also mentioned, the parliamentary proposal across the parliamentary clubs. Anyway, they accept this agreement here as a real solution to the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u19	Thank you. I have two factual points here. I would just like to point out that at 11.30 we have set a fixed point for the election of the members of the committee of inquiry, so I will have to suspend the discussion of this point. But by 11:30 p.m., I will give the floor with a factual remark to Mr Pilný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm definitely not an expert in preschool education, and I'm not gonna pretend, but I'd like to say one sentence here. The state should only interfere with citizens' affairs where the expected positive effects of intervention are far greater than the possible negative ones. It's obviously not the case with this law. And here we are faced with a binary choice whether to overrule or not to vote for the president's veto. I'll respect the coalition deal. And most importantly, I think that the amendment to the law should be a faster and perhaps easier way to get to the desired outcome. Nevertheless, I would like to appeal to those who will process the amendment in order to stop working in terms of the benefit or benefit of kindergartens, forest kindergartens, children's groups or other interest institutions, but to work and create a novel for the benefit of parents. Parents should be given the option of free choice, which according to their preferences, according to their lifestyle and according to their possibilities, not according to the will or will of officials and legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u21	I thank you, and in that case I will give the floor to Mr Kováčik, and then I will interrupt the point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madame and gentlemen, it is always such a mantra that, as we hear from the President of the KDU-ČSL, something fundamental is about to happen here. We have too much experience with the notion that the nearest possible term is so free that it can be in a month as it can be in three years, and therefore I would like to hear an explanation closer than the nearest possible term. So when this obvious problem will be solved so, and here I will allow myself to argue, if not in the interests of parents, but above all in the interests of children. And now, I do not mean in this very immediate interest to facilitate, and therefore to limit any legal obligations and adjustments so as to protect the health of children and the healthy development of children in the long term. But when will the real solution come from the coalition government, because this is obviously a coalition agreement so that, with a clear conscience, other clubs here in the Chamber of Deputies can vote in favour of children? Because from the Constitution, we have to make the best decisions of conscience and conscience, not of some coalition agreement. If the solution comes in one that really suits our children's interests, then we, the Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia, will raise our hand for it. Well, first of all, at this stage, and many times we've said why. And secondly, we don't really believe that the adjustment will come at the very nearest time, that it won't be weeks or months, that it may even be two or three years. The KSČM MP club will support the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-002-003.u23	Thank you. At this point, I am interrupting the discussion of the law on the provision of child care services with the fact that we are discussing a fixed point, and after we discuss it, we will return to the Children's Group Act. Opening point
