ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-031-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on courts, judges,judges and state administration of courts and on the amendment of certain other laws (laws on courts and judges), as amended /German press 117/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-031-019.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that after a long time we will be discussing the bill, the amendment to the Act amending the Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on courts, judges, judges and the administration of the courts and on the amendment of certain other laws, in short, the Law on courts and judges, which is not controversial and which will contribute to some stability, let us say, to judicial officials. The bill is very clear, the draft of the novel. Basically, it is just a matter of redefining the term of office of the Presidents of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. The proposed period is five years. For other officials, Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts, we already have the term of office laid down in the law. The President and Vice-President of the Supreme Court and the President and Vice-President of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be appointed for a term of ten years. This corresponds to the shorter term of office of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Supreme, Regional and District Courts for seven years. [[There's a disturbing atmosphere in the room.]] So now the proposal for an amendment is that the term of office will be set for the Presidents of the Colleges of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. The establishment of a term of office should contribute to the staff replacement of these functions and to certain stabilisation and to the selection of the optimum persons who should be responsible for those functions. The proposal also contains transitional provisions. Depending on the date on which the appointment took place, the term of office of the relevant officials shall end. The graduation is from one year to five years. So even in this regard, I think the proposal doesn't create any controversy. For the sake of completeness, when the President of the College of the Supreme Court, he is now a civilian, commercial, criminal, and Supreme Administrative Court appointed to office in 2013 or 2014, or before the date of entry into force, if we approve the amendment to this law, then his term of office will logically end in five years, whereas if he was appointed in 2009 and before that, he would have terminated his term of office one year from the date of entry into force of this law. To sum it up, we are proposing a term of office for five years with these officials, the Presidents of the Supreme Court Colleges and the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you for your attention and I recommend that this proposal be approved at first reading and directed to the committees for further discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-031-019.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Marie Benešová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-031-019.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us the House press 117 and it is a government bill amending Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on Courts, Judges, Admins etc. This government proposal, as the Minister has already said here, is basically precise on the original principle of determining the length of the term of office of the various officials of the Supreme Court and Supreme Courts, and has not originally been established with the Presidents of the Colleges of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, therefore, also the length of the term of office. I would simply add that the Supreme Court itself, the Supreme Court's leadership, came forward with this proposal in 2013, and agreed essentially unanimously and initiated this change on their own. Rusnokův's government also discussed this proposal without conflict at its last meeting and released him further. Meanwhile, governments have switched, and the current government has essentially adopted this proposal with confidence. I believe that this proposal is truly meaningful. It complements the principle of determining the term of office of the courts and contributes, in particular, to rejuvenating the College of Presidents of each College at the Supreme Court and Supreme Administrative Court in the future. I therefore agree with the proposal and support it and recommend that it be approved at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-031-019.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I do not have anyone registered for the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant or rapporteur if they are interested in the final words. It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for consideration to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It's the number 150 vote. Signed in 150, for 133. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for consideration by the Constitutional Legal Committee. [[17.50 hours]] The next item is the item number
