ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-006-069.u1	69. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification Protocol No. 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms /German Press 211/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek. I ask him to take the floor. Before you speak, Minister, I will ask my colleague Böhnisch to prepare for his intelligence report. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-006-069.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I present to you here a proposal which is once again submitted for the consent of Protocol No. 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. You've got it as a press 211. So, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to clarify what is the subject of this Convention. Protocol No 15 is one of the measures adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in order to facilitate a significant overload of the European Court of Human Rights as a result of a large number of pending cases. At the same time, by responding to this relatively bad situation in the European Court, which is swamped, and that is what threatens its functioning. At the same time, this measure should strengthen the principle of subsidiarity in the implementation and control of compliance with the Convention on improving the caselaw of the Court. [[17.10 hours]] The Protocol sets out in the preamble to the Convention that the primary responsibility for the implementation of the Convention is for States which enjoy a certain freedom. The purpose of this amendment is to expressly confirm by the court the doctrine already used, according to which the Convention can be interpreted differently in different countries, and under this Convention the Strasbourg judges are obliged to take into account the social and cultural values of each country which have led the legislator of the country concerned to adopt certain legislation. So this doctrine, this convention, gives some freedom to countries to adapt the rule of law to their specifics of culture and value. This means that the Convention is based on the assumption that national authorities have direct knowledge of their company and its needs and are therefore in a better position than an international judge in deciding what is in the public interest. The discretion granted to States in this way is greater in particular on issues where there is no consensus between the Member States of the Council of Europe. That's the most important thing in the treaty. There are still some other things that are procedural in nature, and the aim is to simplify and streamline the proceedings before the court. The need for unnecessary shortening of the nine-year mandate of senior judges is prevented, the procedure for dealing with basic interpretation issues is accelerated, for example the deadline for filing complaints and the like is reduced. That's more like technical stuff. Then I would say that the protocol does not in any way concern the fundamental content of fundamental rights and freedoms which the Convention anchors and therefore has no immediate impact on the rule of law of the Czech Republic in my opinion. The implementation of the Protocol should also not bring us any special costs and should, in my view, be in line with our foreign policy interests. The Czech Republic supports the idea of subsidiarity in the fundamental that we must try to tackle matters where the greatest knowledge of the problem is, and I think that is in line with this long-term position of ours. It seems to me that this convention should not be the subject of a political struggle, because I think that is something that we should agree on. It is about strengthening the role of national institutions where national institutions should have the utmost competence to interpret, take into account national specifics and national values. I think that's the point of why this proposal here, this amendment, Protocol No. 15, was to be accepted. I think there is no reason for this amendment not to be supported in the Czech Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-006-069.u3	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Robin Böhnisch. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-006-069.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Indeed, as far as this act is concerned, it is one of those cases where the wording itself is significantly shorter than a very screwed-up and complex reference report, but even in the speech of the Minister, the essential thing was that it was an agreed amendment, some steps to open up the European Court of Human Rights. It is a technical matter to some extent, it is also addressed - the Minister did not talk about it - for example, the maximum age for a person to become a judge of the European Court of Human Rights, because it has now occurred that judges were dismissed at the time of 70 years, even though they did not complete their term of office. It is now changing that they will have to be candidates for judges of this court under 65 years of age, and then they will be able to serve their term undisturbed. Thank you for your attention and I recommend that you refer this proposal to the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-006-069.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the foreign committee in the vote of order number 99, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the foreign committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 99, of the 160 present for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. Next, we will continue according to the approved agenda item
