ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u1	2. Proposal for a law on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws /house print 82/5/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 82/6. [[19.20 hours]] I welcome Senator Alena Gajdůškovášková among us and I ask that the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled be referred first to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and then I invite the rapporteurs to prepare themselves, i.e. my colleague Hana Aulická-Jírovcová and Mr Zdeněk Soukup. Then I would open the debate. Madam Secretary Marksová. And please, the sněmovna for peace. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u2	Hello. Mr President, honourable Members, we have two versions of the Children's Group Act. I will say very briefly and remind you that this parliamentary proposal actually wants all the activities currently taking place outside the network of kindergartens and which provide for babysitting at pre-school age to have to respect certain rules, because at present many of these groups exist, but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u3	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you and ask the House again for peace. Please, if you are having discussions other than the Child Services Act in the children's group, transfer this discussion to the lobby and let the Minister give her an opinion. I'm really asking everyone to do this. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u4	Let's try again. Thank you. This means that there are already a number of these forms of preschool babysitting that are not included in the network of kindergartens and are subject to at least some other rules. This Member, respectively. The government's proposal wants to give them these rules. There have been opinions that this law would then regulate various associations that basically make groups for children, such as scouts or voluntary firefighters, and so would adversely affect them. In the ministry's legal opinion, we really don't think so. Another problem was the great pressure from the so-called. A forest kindergarten that I think you've all felt for yourself. I would like to say here that, of course, the intention of this law is in no way to harm these forest kindergartens. This history is such that these so-called. Forest kindergartens, because it is not something that is somehow defined in the law, have been trying for several years to enlist in the network of kindergartens under the Ministry of Education. Many of them actually did it by starting the so-called. the forest class and joined some pre-existing kindergarten. It can be said that this process is already underway, only it is not finished. And we believe that the one-year deadline is long enough to resolve this situation. This means that, in our opinion, the parliamentary version is perfectly fine. As for the Senate version, it actually did, among other things, that registration in a children's group or as a children's group is voluntary, which means that it's a law that someone who wants to sign up to, who doesn't want to, doesn't apply, and at the same time gives very strict rules on how many hours a week babysitting has to be done to make it a child's group. Although I personally think that this version of Parliament is better, I would like to say to you that I am asking you to accept at least one of those versions, because those who are already running these children's groups are really waiting for the law to be merciful, because it also carries tax relief, and it also carries with it the right to draw European funds. So once again, I'm sure you'll accept at least one of those versions and please don't let it fall under the table. I mean, if the Senate version doesn't pass, then I appeal to you to accept the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u5	Thank you, Minister Michaela Marksová. And now I'm going to ask the rapporteur. First, the rapporteur of the Social Policy Committee to Ms Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, to comment on the Senate's amendments. He doesn't want to express himself. Mr Soukup for the Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, if he wishes to comment on the Senate's amendments? Yes. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the matter several times in committee, we have also discussed it in the Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and Minorities, and we have come to the conclusion that there is absolutely nothing on the proposal of the Chamber of Deputies to cause us to change it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I still ask if any of the authorized members of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports are interested in performing. It's not like that. So we've run out of intelligence. Before I open the debate, I will make an apology for today's negotiations for the family reasons of Mr Ladislav Oklešťek. I am now opening the debate. Senator Alena GajdůGajdůšková will be the first to perform. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u8	Hello, Mr President, Madame Members. Let me briefly comment on how it has been modified - and I am actually using the word only changed, because the modifications are very small - your proposal for care in children's groups. I must begin by saying that the majority opinion of the Senate is for what we can be proud of, this is a great pre-school education as part of the school system. However, the Senate perceives the intention to resolve the current state of shortage of places in kindergarten schools in the preschool education system under the Ministry of Education in a more free form of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, i.e. the solution of children's groups. Al. But that's the part where we don't really agree with the secretary. Our experience Senate is that in today's administrative system, respectively. in the position of legal positivism, when any law is always interpreted in the strictest way, so if it is not quite a precise wording, there is a serious concern of the Senate and the Senate embodied this serious concern in the amendments by which it amended the government draft, respectively. a draft which has been referred to us by the Chamber of Deputies. Let me support this concern by quoting a letter from the Czech Council of Children and Youth. Instead of extending the provision of pre-school care facilities, the law physically narrows it down. Unconsidered detail in the legislative news has the potential to dispose of tested and tested devices that have parameters other than children's groups. What has already proven its viability must be maintained. Disrupting existing facilities is a waste of resources, often from public sources. The Czech Council of Children and Youth also notes that the approval of the law in the form it passed through the Chamber of Deputies, hiddenly, in an unfriendly form will pose a threat to the normal running and the existence of years of proven variants of preschool and extracurricular education. It's not just about the forest kindergartens. This applies to associations, voluntary firefighters, the Red Cross and other children's and youth organisations, in particular, who are already working with preschool children. If the law were adopted in the form of an MP, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and the registration would be mandatory, indeed in the legal positivity in our country, as we know it, the activities of these associations, organizations, but of course also of the forest kindergartens would be threatened at the moment. [[19.30 hours]] These associations are asking what our legislators are really offering to groups who regularly work with pre-school children. Organisations whose educational programmes are dedicated to vulnerable children, maternity centres and many other federal activities created spontaneously on the basis of the need and will of citizens. Dear colleagues, I do not think that the answer from us Members of Parliament should be that we offer complications to those who need to be appreciated for their self-sacrificing work with children instead of supporting them. That's why I'm asking you to support the Senate version of the Children's Group Act. The Senate amendment, the change, only responds to what practice points to. They're dealing with four areas. Firstly, the Senate law does not apply to the activities of associations, scouts, firefighters, the Red Cross and other associations and organizations that work with young children. Thus, they will be able to continue as they are used to in the Senate version without having to comply with demanding administrative and sanitary regulations as children's groups. Furthermore, the Senate's amendment addresses the forestry kindergartens, which, if they fell under the law at the moment, would, after all, make life very difficult for the conditions posed by the Children's Group Act. The Senate version also deals with the extension of qualifications, the requirements for qualifications of those who work with children in children, its formulation, which is more general than the exhaustive list. There may be only one example here, also from the gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but not yet under the direction of the Minister. College in Opava teaches the field of social management. This is because this field is not in the taxable list of the possibility of accrediting facilities that work with seniors, simply a person who has a degree in social management is not qualified to pursue this activity professionally. We are therefore preceded by such absurdity from the Senate, and qualification is given by a more widespread general wording in that it requires only the level of education in those fields which may be concerned, namely social, health, pedagogical and humanities. Furthermore, the Senate proposal is addressed, virtually. corrects some legislative technical issues, minor inaccuracies that simply appeared in the law, which, of course, happens, and from that the Senate is to correct those things. The Minister in the Senate has expressed a neutral position on our amendments. I would therefore like to ask you to support the Senate version of the Act currently under discussion. I believe that this will be for the benefit of children, but also of parents, and of all those who work with young children. I believe it will be for the benefit of the entire society that it will indeed complement the Senate version of the fan of pre-school child care offers and will be satisfied by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u9	Thank you, Senator Alena Gajdůšková. Mr Mihola, President of the ODS Fiala, then Vice-President Gazdík, will speak with priority in the debate and then replace me in the management of the meeting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club welcomes the alternative to kindergarten schools in the form of so-called. children's groups as well as in the form of forest kindergartens. Not only because they help solve the long-term problem of the urban environment, namely the lack of places in kindergartens. KDU-ČSL sees the support of children's groups and forest nursery schools as part of its family friendly policy to help combine family and professional life. After all, after 1989, we also applied to support alternatives in the education process, and now that we have them, we should not do everything we can to ensure that there is no room for them in the end. In the third reading of the Children's Group Bill, our club supported an amendment that would enable forest nursery schools to exist. Unfortunately, this amendment was not adopted. This means a fatal threat to kindergarten schools, but also to many other associations. Mother clubs and centers, for them this situation could also mean extinction. A petition signed by a total of 14,000 citizens also shows that citizens are interested in this subject. Only in the association are 115 forest nursery schools, which attend about 3,000 children. [[There's a constant noise in the O.R.]] I didn't want to perform with the support of mother forest schools just through sympathy for these facilities remotely. In the past few days, I have visited four forest kindergartens where I have obtained -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u11	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna ask for peace one more time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is evident that many people are interested in this subject. Who doesn't care if he goes to the lobby to discuss it. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u12	In the past few days, I have visited four forest kindergartens where I have learned how to work, how to take care of children and how their parents are satisfied with these facilities. After all, I didn't do it alone. As far as I know, colleague Okamura and perhaps some of you have found a way to go to these forest nursery schools. With this visit, I only strengthened my belief that forest kindergartens are an appropriate and varied alternative to pre-school education. Among their indisputable foreign exchange is the cultivation of the relationship between children and nature from an early age and the emphasis on practical knowledge, which Jan Amos Komenský also emphasized. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, as a teacher from the Faculty of Education, who is really close to education and education, to support the Senate bill, which, although it is far from perfect, allows for the existence of both children's groups and forest kindergartens. This version of the bill is supported, as far as I know, by the Minister of Education. Mr Ing also approached me with a request for support. Aleš Sedláček, Chairman of the Czech Council of Children and Youth, a rooftop organization that brings together more than 200,000 children in 98 member organizations and also regularly engages in or works with tens of thousands of preschool children in addition to the above mentioned number. Dear colleagues, once again I ask for the support of the Senate bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u13	I thank Mr Mihol for his speech. Mr Petr Fiala will take the floor in the debate and Vice-President Gazdík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u14	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President Gajdůškovášková said here that we will prepare a law with which everyone will eventually be satisfied. I'm afraid we've prepared a law that no one will be satisfied with in the end. And if we've been discussing how citizens are looking at us, when we're talking about five minutes longer, I think they're looking at us in the first place from the point of view of what laws we're making for them. And whether the parliamentary version or now the Senate version of this law is not a good legislative result and does not shine a good light on us. I would like to remind you that the first reflections on the fact that we will have the Children's Group Act have been taking place since 2006. In the end, they were unsuccessful several times, and then Prime Minister Nečas' government passed the Child Services Act in May 2013. The law had a clear goal - it was about quick help, it was about dealing with a situation where tens of thousands of children did not get into kindergarten because of lack of places. On the one hand, it was, of course, rational to address the problem of nursery school capacity by this measure, even because the population wave we are trying to cope with here in some way, in the meantime, gradually falling down and building further nursery capacity would be unnecessary. But the second rational thing about this was to provide parents with different options to ensure and not necessarily go through preschool education, which is kindergarten. We're getting close to some kind of result almost late, the moment the population wave slowly falls or falls. In addition, we have prepared a version that concerns different groups for various reasons and where it is not even clearly written, what it is, who falls under it, who does not fall under it and what everything will apply to it. We hear extensive interpretations here, we hear that we don't have to apply these interpretations. But then what will be the practice, we really don't know. I'm talking here - that's what I should have said at the beginning, but I'm going to say it now - as a convinced follower of the fact that we should have such a law and that children's groups are the right thing to do. But my disillusionment comes from what we've come up with, and what versions are here before us, and that this clarification of the situation, helping parents, helping those who care for children, under this law, there is really no help, and that help is not good after all. If I have to choose and look at the two versions, both of which I really regard as bad in my result, then when I look at the Senate version, there are two limitations that I have a real problem agreeing with. According to the Senate version, children's groups - and please note this - would have to be in operation at least 40 hours a week, and this is against the logic of the matter, against the sense with which we prepared the Children's Group Act at the beginning. Such a modification disqualifies all equipment that will operate operationally, i.e. only a few times a week if necessary. You can tell me again that it's going to be a question of interpretation. I don't know if it's a question of interpretation. The Senate version is quite clear. And my second reservation is that according to the Senate version, newly cared for children in the children's group would have to have a secondary or university education in the field of education, psychology, health care, social care. But that disqualifies all those so-called. The nannies who have done a retraining course within the Ministry of Education have practical experience, know it, do it, believe the state, and again it will be useless, because here we will prepare some perfect version of the law, which will ultimately not help those children and their parents at all. As far as the kindergarten is concerned, it is, of course, our fault that the law is interpreted in the version of the Chamber of Deputies so that it can endanger the existence of forest kindergartens. But by being valid for them from January 2016, we have a year to prepare something more sensible, and that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has a year to sort it out, for example. either a novel, or some well-interpreted decree, made it possible for a forest nursery to exist, so I think that's a guarantee enough for us to deal with it in some way. And from this point of view, I also consider it because it is the main complaint against the parliamentary version, the version that has left the Chamber of Deputies to be safer than the version with which the Senate has now returned it to us. I want to assure you that the Civil Democrats have been and are supporters of alternative childcare, including forest kindergartens, and that we will be really happy to assist the Minister in finding an optimal solution to deal with this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, when you decide that law, remember its original meaning. It wasn't about making the environment difficult, it wasn't about making it difficult to take care of the baby. It was about improving the chances of returning to work for those parents who wanted it. The law was intended to simplify the search for the possibility of caring for pre-school children. He was to address the situation with a temporary shortage of places in kindergartens and to extend the choice of parents where to place their children. What have we prepared? The ambiguous law that complicates the environment makes it difficult to regulate and where there are many dangers for those who want to take care of children. It's not a good result. But if we are to deal with this outcome, it seems to me to be a safer way to go through the parliamentary version of the proposal. And why, I think I've made myself clear enough to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u15	Good evening, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. Before proper applications with prior rights, Mr. Chairman of the Civic Democratic Party's Civic Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u16	Thank you for the floor. I do not know if you have anything other than the House press 82/6, where there are Senate amendments. [[He's looking for reactions.]] So some of them have... I haven't found any other document coming from the Senate on our official website. Why do I say that? If we write a law that has three paragraphs, it requires an explanatory note. We have nothing but a change of points of type: In the first part in the title of § 12, in § 12, § 16 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c) Paragraph 22 (2) (c) is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (e), § 23 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) and in Section 25, replace the word "harm" with the word "imposition"... And so I could continue: footnotes 1 to 4 are deleted, the other footnotes are numbered, etc. In other words, I didn't understand what the Senate is proposing from the senator's performance. I know that many senators feared the extreme interpretation of the House version, and many people told them that when the House version passes, young firefighters, young footballers, young hockey players would be children's groups. I consider this to be a really extreme interpretation of the law, and I do not believe that such a House version makes it possible. But it can't be ruled out. This debate really seems off the charts. What our Prime Minister said. We've gotten somewhere else, and now we're talking about who the law is threatening, whether in the House version or in the Senate version. [[19.50 hours]] The senator says everyone will be happy after all. I think everyone who loves regulation, bureaucracy and regulation. All those concerned who take care of children are afraid of either the House version or the Senate version. I note that one group is afraid of one and another group of the other version. And that is the result of our actions. I think it's a bad result. For us, I want to say that if the House's version passes, and if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs doesn't manage to do so in the rush of another legislative work, we are prepared to draw up an amendment that will avert the fears that we will eliminate the forest nursery on 1 January 2016. By having time there, we offer that our Members will be working on it. If the government does this, it will, of course, be better from the point of view of the comments and the expected quality of the proposal and so on. However, we fear that The Senate prescribes a mandatory weekly period. And that is really against the spirit that we really wanted and what we wanted for parents and those who take care of children. De facto, as I understand it, the Senate makes other kindergartens. It's called the same thing, but they'll actually have the same responsibilities. And that's not good. That's what kindergarten is for. We understand there's no point in building new buildings. Whoever watches how many babies are born every year knows that the boom is over. boom's gonna be at primary school in a minute, and he's gonna be in high school in eight years. There's a way to react and prepare for that. If I really had something to recommend, it would be best not to vote for one version. The good idea that maybe most of the House agrees with this legislative DIY, and as the legislators and officials have embarked on it, has deteriorated. That's what we're really worried about. If not, I will be happy to have - and I think that there will be enough Members - to disprove or confirm these concerns. And since it was our idea that, as I found out today, our Members have been proposing about four parliamentary periods back, what we have produced is almost unbelievable. And notice that I'm saying that I'm not saying that the government did it wrong and the opposition did it right. I'm saying what we made here. The Senate is supposed to fix it for us. The Senate may have corrected one of our mistakes, but then he screwed up even more. I am convinced that he has made even more of it, that he has frightened everyone else who thinks, like coaches of small footballers and hockey players, or scouts or beekeepers, as they have called me, maybe called me and wrote to you, they are also afraid that they will be a children's group after the effectiveness and validity of this law. In doing so, they do it entirely according to other laws and regulations. But it's the result of our work that we're either scaring one or the other group. I'm sure there's a better House version. And if it passes, which we recommend, we are ready to help eliminate the risk of abolishing forest preschools from legislation within 15 months. For every such form, it depends on how parents use this option. And we're not supposed to plan it. If it's one or a hundred forest kindergartens, it'll show up depending on the quality they'll offer, how satisfied their parents will be. But the more complex the rules we set, the logical it is that the alternative will be less, and the more pressure will be on the standard placement of children in kindergartens. That's perfectly logical and obvious. So, unlike the senator, we don't recommend the Senate version. But if she has yet to speak in the debate and try to respond to some of her concerns, I will be very happy, or maybe she will disprove some of her concerns. As senators and senators, I think somebody fed the extreme interpretation of the House version, so it could be that they're feeding us the extreme interpretation of the Senate version anyway. Of course I don't rule that out. But there are simply real concerns, we should hear them, and, if necessary, we should not throw people into uncertainty and fear through our legislative actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u17	I thank the President of the Civic Democratic Party. Now I have two factual points. With the first point of fact, Mrs Anna Putnová, Mr Jiří Mihola, is registered after her. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u18	Good evening again. I would like to make a few comments on this debate. Firstly, I believe that it would be really good if we adopted one version of the proposed amendment. I consider this to be a pretty crucial matter for the bill. Whether it is the Senate or the House, everyone seems to have some preference, but I would certainly advocate for the position expressed by the Minister here in order to end this debate today. And if we are looking for ways to help forest kindergartens, I think that the current amendment to the school law now under discussion gives room to define forest kindergartens in preschool education. I see it as a very realistic path.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u19	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Furthermore, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u20	Thank you. Just a brief response to the ODS colleagues. I think we agree that neither version is perfect. I wouldn't dare say that one is really the better one. I admire that, in imperfect versions, a colleague can express himself in this way. With the ODS, I'm a little surprised that, as far as I know, this party puts emphasis on individuality, free decision making, alternative, all the principles that I've highlighted here, and now I actually suddenly hear that within a year and a day, forest kindergartens can sort it out somehow. In fact, they become a normal kindergarten, which, in a better case, turns green. Then I really don't understand this alternative, and I don't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u21	I thank Mr Mihol. With another factual remark, Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. Just to explain, through you, a colleague of Mihol. What, if I can translate it freely, as I see it, for example, was said by my colleague, Fiala, is that we have such a feeling, and that is that everything worked in some way, people somehow lived and created a new law to improve it. And we are very concerned that whatever version is now approved, the situation will deteriorate in that there may be problems with the interpretation of various things, and perhaps we will make it difficult for those whom we wanted to simplify life. In this situation, the big question is whether it is not the best option, which may not be the law at this time as it is, at all. And then it's just about picking one of the versions. And we think the House is better. But it's not about individuality, it's about the fact that the law didn't work out very well in both versions. That's all. I'm really worried that even if our goal is not to make life harder for people, we're going to put them in situations they haven't had to deal with so far, and we're forcing them to have to deal with them. And I don't think that's quite it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u23	I thank Mr Blažek. After this factual remark, we get to the duly registered ones. The first duly registered is Mrs Radka Maxová. You have the floor, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in. I want to remind everyone here present and absent in the showroom that this proposal is not about forest clubs, please, not about kindergartens, because it is not about kindergartens. I would like to read some information from the final report from the experimental verification of the operation of the forest classes integrated in the nursery. On 4 June 2010, the Ministry of Education announced an experimental verification of the operation of the integrated forest kindergarten in kindergarten. Two school years were tested from 1 September 2010 to 31 August 2012. Its main objective was to determine whether and under what conditions it is possible to integrate a forest kindergarten into the operation of a classic kindergarten. The original intention of the Ministry of Education was not to verify the operation of the forest kindergarten itself, but only the possibility of its existence in the normal kindergarten. Therefore, it was specified during the verification that it would not be a verification of the operation of a school of forestry at a kindergarten, but a verification of the operation of forest classes integrated into that kindergarten. In addition to monitoring specific material, organisationally operational and personnel conditions, the procurement documentation included an experimental verification of the comparison of the development of children in forest classes and the normal classes of kindergarten in terms of disease, accident rate and school preparedness and verification of the safety and hygiene measures applied and pedagogical procedures. One educator and one teaching assistant worked in each of these classes. [[20.00 hours]] One of the tasks of experimental verification was to monitor children's accident and illness and to compare the situation in integrated forest classes and in mainstream kindergarten classes. The attendance of children in forest classes and kindergartens was balanced. As an example for comparison of illness, the school stressed in its report: January 2012, in which various respiratory diseases often occur. In January 26 children were ill in two classes of kindergarten, and in the forest class they were only three children. As far as the accident rate is concerned, no injury was recorded during the two-year trial verification in integrated forest classes, and two fractures were observed in kindergarten in 20111/2012. The integrated forest class participated in a study of school maturity and all children were recommended for first year. None of the children had a delay in schooling. Positives detected. Results of education, respectively. the school's readiness level for children from the forest classes was comparable to that achieved in the mainstream kindergarten classes. It has been confirmed that, as a result of a small number of children in the group and a permanent stay in the fresh air, and thus a gradual adaptation to a higher temperature range and a natural strengthening of child's immunity, children in the forest classes are less ill. Low, respectively, has been detected. zero injury rate, probably due to better developed motor and improved mobility coordination obtained as a result of the child's movement in uneven and challenging terrain, overcoming countless obstacles etc. Appropriate measures and safety rules have certainly contributed to this. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Detected negatives. There weren't many. Verification has highlighted some problems, in particular organisational, financial, hygienic. Conclusions from this study. The concept of integrated forest classes represents an alternative - which we are talking about here - of organized education for preschool children differing from the traditional concept of kindergarten and from the usual institutional educational practices implemented in the Czech Republic. The experimental verification concerned integrated forest classes, i.e. forest classes established in a normal kindergarten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u25	I'm very sorry, Madame, but I think there's more order in kindergarten than here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u26	Thank you. Based on experimental verification, it is clear that this type of pre-school education can be carried out in accordance with the framework curriculum and offer education comparable to its level to normal kindergartens. However, in some respects it requires specific conditions, especially in terms of personnel and material security. The Ministry of Education is aware of the existence of forest kindergartens themselves, but they are not included in the school register and have the character of a children's club, a forest club, and are mostly operated by civil associations. These clubs are not governed by school law and are fully covered by children's parents, although the Ministry of Education welcomes these activities and considers them beneficial. I very much welcome the proposal by Mrs Putnová here, who would like to address this problem in some way in the amendment to the School Act. Recommendations of the Ministry of Education. It follows from the above conclusions that training in forest classes can be carried out in terms of content and outcome of education within the current form of the framework education plans and operating conditions of the kindergarten, including staff, material, organisational. However, compliance with the legislation currently in force laying down health requirements for schools and school establishments remains a limiting element. The Ministry of Education therefore acted - this is important - in this matter with the Ministry of Health and of course there are some conclusions from this meeting, namely: In view of the above, we propose on the basis of the outcome of negotiations with the Ministry of Health to prepare methodological material for kindergarten schools with recommended procedure for setting up, operation and training in forest classes integrated into kindergarten schools, and secondly, to examine and resolve the possibility of possible higher financing of forest classes, especially in relation to state budget possibilities. Furthermore, the website of the Forest Kindergarten Association, or clubs, also revealed that legislation, etc., would be necessary in order to enable separate forest kindergartens to become an alternative to ordinary kindergartens. But the important thing here is that last President Tereza Vošahlíková here says: We are ready for this situation, which means changes to legislation. A year ago, that means 2013, a draft document was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, which is already being applied in practice in the Czech Republic and can be based on this issue. And I ask, "Where's the document?" Where does the Forest Kindergarten Association work on this? Where is the continuation of this cooperation? Why are they only pushing for volunteering? I think that both of these ministries, perhaps three, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, health and education, can be continued and directed to integrate forest clubs into our educational system. I'm in favour of alternatives. I have offered myself the opportunity to cooperate with Mrs Valkounová on this subject. She told me herself that the document was prepared, pre-negotiated at the Ministry of Health, but Mrs. Valkounová chose a way to push volunteering and influence the public. I'm asking why. Is it easier? Is it more systemic? I don't. But we are primarily concerned with our children and care for them should have different alternatives and different rules. In order to give my opinion on why I choose against the Senate proposal: I do not like - and I have to agree with the opposition - the definition, the exclusion of the nanny's qualifications and the removal of people with higher professional education. Professional organisations such as the Chamber of Commerce and the Union of Employment Unions have already heard from this topic. I think that we should not discriminate in this way specifically between two groups of people who could take care of our children. I guess that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u27	Thank you, Mrs Maxová. Now I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Adolf Beznoska, after Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry, I'm duly logged in, but given that three members of our parliamentary club have already spoken, it would be unnecessary for me to shed some light on our position. I think their performance was obvious. I will just add that originally a fresh thought, relatively simple, to introduce a children's group as an alternative for parents, so that especially young families can harmonise their professional and personal life, such an ease, also the solution of those 60,000 children who did not get into kindergartens due to insufficient capacity, simply the original fresh and quite reasonable intention, which also had their hygienic, pedagogical, material and technical and control mechanisms set up, the creative activity of the Chamber of Deputies and then the Senate became a law, which will simply not be optimal for either of the two groups that are here trying to lobby in some way. I'll make it short. Of course, our parliamentary version is more acceptable to me, knowing all the shortcomings it still contains. The Senate proposal really does not suit me particularly on the two essential points, namely five days a week and working hours corresponding to the requirements of the Labour Code. And then, of course, qualifying requirements, because the original concept was focused mainly on young children, and there I see those women with feelings that go through nanny qualifications, meet the requirements and do not have to meet the requirements of at least a high school or higher education of a certain type. So that's why I can't accept the Senate proposal. I ask for the support of the parliamentary proposal and, of course, we are available to address, in particular, forest kindergartens, because we are talking about care in the children's group, it is not education, and forest kindergartens are, in my opinion, systemically, under the preschool education law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u29	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, followed by Mrs Maxová, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u30	Mrs Maxová finally made it easier for me, perhaps in the penultimate sentence, because I could not understand from the long speech whether it was in favour or against. I'm sorry. I couldn't get my bearings. You finally said it. Anyway, what did we make out of her act? The Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Health, is missing only Jirka Dienstbier to participate so that the pallet is whole. You quoted the conclusions from the Ministry of Health, and that was the Eurospike. If you could tell us what the conclusions are in Czech and human terms. There were such methodological guidelines for implementation and so on. That's what officials say, and we who aren't officials don't understand. But it's really just a decent request, that's the passage you said you'd recommend after consulting with the Department of Health. Notice that three ministries are already handling this. I don't know if it would be a good idea for a special department of forest kindergartens and children's groups. It might even out some coalition numbers, etc. That's a really incredible thing. If we leave it to the legislators in three ministries, it's right in the government. When three legislations are working on it, the result is this. More like a question or a translation into Czech, what exactly was the Ministry of Health when you said that you suggested that you agree with it, what did it actually suggest? In addition to issuing a methodological instruction for kindergarten schools to integrate forest clubs into each other. That's how I understood that there would be no forest kindergartens, but in order not to say that we're against it, we're gonna think of some kindergarten clubs in normal kindergartens. And now I don't know who the link between the woods and that kindergarten building is. I'm not quite sure, because if it's a detachable workplace, and I don't mean that ironically, or the head teacher will be there. We were in our town combining kindergartens and there were teachers in the individual buildings, we had one principal, unfortunately we didn't have any directors there. That's a bit of a problem, de facto they're almost always principals or kindergarten teachers. I don't like the procedure. If anyone thinks kindergarten is wrong, it's a legitimate opinion - [[Attention, time-climbing.]] I only took two minutes, Mr. Chairman? Well, I'm sorry. Well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. The lady has a point, too, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u31	We'll be glad to see you. I'll ask Mrs Maxová with another factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u32	All I have is the fact that I didn't actually say in my speech that I was leaning towards a parliamentary or senate proposal. I am in favour of the parliamentary motion. As far as the document is concerned, I don't know what stage it's at, I just know that it actually fell with the dissolution of the government and the House during the previous term of office. But the document is. I think it's more a matter for the Ministry of Health to deal with than the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour. The Association refers only to sanitary conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u33	Thank you, Mrs Maxová, for the point of fact. Mr Stanjura surrenders. Yes, very good. Another duly signed up is Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u34	Good evening, dear colleagues. As regards the Children's Group Act, KSČM did not support this law and will not support the Senate proposal. We have similar or more or less identical reservations about both versions, plus the situation in the regions, and it has already been said here, is changing. It is true that there are places where capacity is still lacking, I mean like a ring around Prague. There are problems there, they had to reject a number of children and classes are hopelessly filled. There is also a similar situation in some places, but there are more and more places where not only three-year-olds but two-year-olds are already accepted. What's missing is that they're not a nursery. We should focus on those, too, because how many times kindergartens substitute for Jessell facilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u35	I'm sorry, madam, but now we're really going to start sending specific individuals to the forest kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u36	Thank you, too. Many cities were based on demographic studies and decided to avoid this problem and to solve the problem themselves, so these cities themselves began to increase their capacity in schools with the fact that they did not even ask for assistance from the state, solved it with various superstructures, reconstructions, construction of kindergartens. If I were to give a few examples: Ostrava, offering places in kindergartens is above demand, 170 vacancies are available in kindergarten. Similarly in Plzeň. Thanks to the extension of the target buildings of kindergartens, parents' demand for the placement of children reaching three years of age this year has been satisfied and 20 additional vacancies remain. There is a vacancy for 15 children in Prague 4 after additional registration. And so I could continue with a series of other cases. The birth rate is falling, and here I agree with President Stanjura, the boom is moving gradually to primary schools, they have big problems in some places and about placing children in school clubs. It will gradually move to secondary education as well. Follow-up measures are taken to deal with this situation. First, the creation of a European fund for capacity expansion in kindergarten schools, next year a twelve-billion-dollar amount should be available. The National Fund, from which subsidies will be granted for the construction of kindergarten schools, which is to strengthen up to CZK 1.5 billion each year. At the same time, 600 institutions applied for drawing. Another CZK 300 million has been specially reserved since autumn for the Prague Ring, satellites around Prague. Another measure of the new school law, which passed the first reading, is intended to extend the possibility of part of preschoolers in the preparatory classes of primary schools, which at this time are only for children with social disadvantages. It's supposed to spread to other groups of children. So why the Children's Group Act now? By the way, they exist without this law. We remind you that all possible documents by both the Ministry of Education and governments underline the need to increase the quality of education. It is also considered for this reason that the introduction of the last preschool year in kindergartens is compulsory. Furthermore, the amendment to the School Act highlights the healthy eating of children. The law on teaching workers - there has been a heated discussion about qualifications, about exceptions, about who should or should not teach, and while replacing pre-school education with a child group care law with just a babysitter, we do not require the necessary pedagogical qualification. Children will come to the children's group instead of healthy eating according to standards with a package in hand from home. We discount from the hygiene standards and needs of children. Among other things, there will be considerable age variance in the group. Two-year-olds should be in a small group where they need a different regime and other hygiene conditions. I already talked about it when we discussed the law in the House, that I understand those parents who need to go to work for economic and other reasons. We might also agree to discuss this law if some of our amendments were adopted. I mean, for example. the fact that this law would apply only to certain transfer periods where places in kindergartens or kindergartens are not available. [[20.20 hours]] Furthermore, it would only be intended for children under three or four years of age, and would then enter pre-school education where they would be educated according to educational plans and qualified teachers. That the provider's food would be secured. We also have concerns that municipalities will prefer to set up children's groups at the expense of kindergarten schools, which will cost more. Unfortunately, our amendments, as I have already said, have not been adopted. This, in our view, is the fact that the child's interest is behind, and so is the equality of children in access to education, on the starting line for lifelong learning. So the KSČM club will not support the custody law in the children's group, both the Senate version and the version of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u37	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. Another duly signed up is Mrs Bebarová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u38	Colleagues and colleagues, it is my duty to inform on the petition received by the Chamber of Deputies on this subject, which points out the wording of this law which we approved in June 2014 in a version which, in the opinion of the petents, eliminates all different forms of care for young children, including popular forest nursery schools. It refers to a petition on the number of about 13,000 signatures, which was also delivered to the Senate on this subject. He demands that the law be formulated in such a way that registration for a children's group is optional. Then there will indeed be a promising new alternative, and not the only permitted form of childcare, which is at risk in the original proposal. Petents ask the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the Children's Group Act only in the sense of optional registration and point in this direction to the text approved by the Senate. So much petenti. For my part, I would just like to add that this is the first time that I have heard, from the mouth of the proposer, if he was a minister, as an argument for the adoption of the law, that although he does not apply, he applies in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u39	Thank you, Mrs Bebarová. With a point of fact, first Mrs Putnová, then Mrs Nohavová, with a proper application. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u40	I hope for the last time on this subject today. I think it should not fit in with this discussion, in discussing how many people have turned to us, whether with a positive opinion or a negative opinion, that it should definitely not fit that responsibility remains on three ministries - the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health. And it is a pity that the ministers, who are all on the same side, could not introduce us to a proposal that would be much easier for our decision-making. I, for my part, am leaning towards the House version, because I am convinced that the path is solvable. But without the cooperation of these three ministries, we will certainly not be able to do so. If she doesn't cooperate, she won't be able to create a law that might be promising for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u41	Thank you, Mrs Putnová, for her point of view. Mrs Nohavová, who is now duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u42	Good evening, dear colleagues. The Children's Group Act returns to us with amendments. I consider the Senate's proposals to be bad. Children's groups, forest kindergartens or other facilities exist, and they exist today, as we all know, without law. Our legal order, according to the opinion of most experts, is rampant. We're trying to legalize everything, even what we don't need at all. And the Children's Group Act is a shining example of that. At present, forest kindergartens and babysitting on the neighbourly principle simply exist. They operate without the law, better said, they operate on the basis of general legislation. I therefore repeat once again that the Children's Group Act is redundant. Where there is a problem with children not placed in kindergarten, there are these options. Children's groups, like today, may exist for a period of need, without a new law, of course. And for a period of so-called Necessities, which will be enough places for children under the age of three in two, three years when the population wave falls, will be enough places in kindergarten schools for these children and children under the age of three. Persecuting the law of a government coalition at all costs is a warning. Not only is it currently an excess standard, but its acceptance will cause a problem by so-called. Today's alternative will become a minimum binding standard. And we all know how minimum standards work in Czech conditions. Again, I draw attention to the danger of transferring kindergartens to children's groups. Even a more self-conscious mayor with a lack of funds will often choose the cheaper alternative, which is a children's group. What will the mayor choose if he is faced with the need to modernize the end-of-food operation or with a lack of qualified teachers? Will he spend hundreds of millions, or will he transform the kindergarten by cutting the pen into a children's group? And we already have signals today that we are waiting for this law so that the kindergarten, as amended by the Children's Group Act, can be transferred to the children's group. I reject the Children's Group Act and its amendments to the Senate. I would also like to call on the rest of you to do so, as well as the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u43	Thank you, Mrs Nohavová. Mr Petr Bendl is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u44	Thank you, Mr President. It wasn't factual, but I'll try to fit in those two minutes. I come from a region that has extreme problems, as I say, with a shortage of kindergartens or places in kindergartens, primary schools, and vice versa, where primary schools are and are half empty. This bill, which supported the majority of government and non-governmental MEPs in the hope of simply adjusting the possibility that if there isn't enough capacity to create some sort of babysitter, as someone here has called it, that babysitting would simply help bridge some complicated family time. A kindergarten wouldn't have to be built, a primary school wouldn't have to be built, and at the same time these people would have a chance to solve their own problem for a while. But it's become some kind of Jáchyme, throw it into the machine, because this simple thought has hit several ministries on the table, and it instantly invented what it would take to meet such conditions. And on top of that, it would be nice if children's groups became local firefighters if children's groups became local footballers and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u45	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry to interrupt. I will ask the Dawn of Direct Democracy to move its party meeting to the lobby, other Members from other MPs to keep their voices down. [[After a while.]] Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u46	Can I go now? I've lost 20 seconds with that, but I'm gonna cut it short. I just don't think we're going the right way, that it's worth looking at the whole thing again and going the simplistic way that's going to work and not forcing us to do the pasquila we have on our desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You've cut it short nicely. Senator GajdůGajdůšková is now reporting for the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Madame Members, I do not wish to prolong this debate, but I have basically been asked to do so, so I must respond. So let me really do this very briefly, if you will give me your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u49	Well, Senator, I'm sorry, but so far it seems to be a problem for Members to pay attention. Again, I ask some of them to move their meetings to the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u50	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u51	The senator is a lady, and especially gentlemen, please be gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u52	Thank you again. I will begin by responding to Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS. I must say that I am very pleased by his disdain for the fact that you have received the Senate version in the form of paragraph, letter, a few words, because we do not choose to share here. I have been sharing it very much and for several years, because we in this form receive all amendments to the laws passed by the Chamber of Deputies. For years and years, I've been trying to get a reason message about what's coming from here in the House. I think that, as both chambers, we could agree to complement each other's proposals with what we actually meant. I am convinced that this would also help to make the legislator's intention clear, and that we might also prevent the legal positivity, as I mentioned at the outset. However, aware of this fact, I have sent out an amendment to all Members and Members with a brief remark on what this point is dealing with. But let me add one more thing. I will quote from the original bill, i.e. from what has been referred to the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate: "The child care service in the child group is meant for the purposes of this law to the activity consisting of regular child care from one year of age to the start of compulsory schooling provided" - and now I stress - "outside the child's household, in the children's group, and which is aimed at ensuring the needs of the child and the education, development of the abilities, cultural and hygienic habits of the child." Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, every lawyer, everyone who reads it must say: Well, if it is a voluntary firefighter association, once a month, have little children - and I know such groups - from those small, three-year-olds, meet once a month, meet the definition, meet this diction? They do, of course they do. They meet regularly, raise, teach children cultural and hygienic habits, etc. The argument we received on the bill was that employers are waiting for children's groups in particular. Therefore, the definition of the wording is specified, which concerns the scope of weekly working hours under the Labour Code, and that it is usually every working day. If it is usually, of course, it does not have to be covered every working day. But I say, the basic argument for children's groups was that employers who want to provide for their employees' child care are waiting for this law, so that they can be employed, so that women in particular have the opportunity to do what is called work life balance, or to reconcile careers and family life. The children's group also has clearly defined criteria, as it is formulated and should be created under this law. There is some regulation, but it also means if we adopt the law that there is a guarantee of the state for the quality of care in the children's group. And that's basic. On the one hand, regulation, on the other hand, of course, the guarantee of the state for a certain quality. And here I believe that if we are talking about alternatives, volunteering should be enshrined here. Yes, you want to be guaranteed by the state, yes, you want the concessions that the law also provides, and support for the children's group, but you have to meet certain criteria. But you should also be able, if you don't want to follow these criteria, to work, to provide that care in another regime, whether it's by trade law or otherwise. And the volunteering is dealing with the problem that has been brought to the attention here. These are nannies, and this is also a higher vocational education, although I disagree with it there, because if someone has a higher vocational education, they must have a secondary education. Without that, he can't have a higher vocational education. So the lowest level is high school education and Senate formulation does not exclude higher vocational education. In conclusion, perhaps - perhaps, if we went through the strict legal look again, the qualifications that are obtained on the basis of the nanny's requalification might fall. But if we insist on the wording of the Chamber of Deputies, that is, on the original wording of the law, then we...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u53	I'm sorry. I'm gonna ask you to stop scaring the Senator. The senators will then be afraid to go to the House, because here they must shout the Chamber of Deputies and no one listens to them. I beg you not to do this in the interests of good relations between our chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u54	Thank you again, Mr President. So one more time. Perhaps the Senate proposal would actually affect the possibility of applying to those who have acquired nanny qualifications based on retraining, but nevertheless, if the original text is adopted, then believe that it will affect about 3,000 children in forest nursery, believe that it will affect more than 10,000 pre-school children working in the Federal field and, of course, the relevant number of workers working with these children. Control, if we accept the voluntary submission of the Senate, quality control is provided by parents. Parents decide what they prefer. And if they want to guarantee the state, they'll go where the kindergarten, education, or where the children's group is, according to the social area. But colleagues and colleagues, let's not defend freedom, let's not defend alternatives. Once again, I ask you to support the Senate bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u55	I thank the Vice-President of the Senate. I also have two factual points. First of all, Mr Petr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u56	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. You know that I was not a supporter of children's groups at the outset, but I have no choice but to remind you that we are dealing with the problems of self-government, the fact that major projects were being carried out, the satellites were being built, but civil amenities were not being dealt with. We can't really be good or bad, because they're always gonna look at us like we approved something wrong or we didn't think of something. But I think at the end of that chain, there should be an interest in a child that should be taken care of. We should support mothers, we should encourage parents to carry out economic activities in order to secure their family. That is why I dare to ask you, those who have not yet decided to take into account in your decision-making, whether we limit no one to harm anyone, but to ensure what is missing, and it is indeed a problem of places in kindergartens that I believe is transitional. However, if you do not decide on the Senate version, please support the version of the Chamber of Deputies to press the right button at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u57	Yes, I also firmly believe that each of us can press the button correctly. With another factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Sorry, you're logged in here - so properly, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u58	The Vice-President of the House thinks we're scaring the senator, but she's scaring the parents of those children, and she says that when the House version passes, we're putting 3,000 children and 10,000 children at risk. That's just not true. It was clear here from the microphone that when the House version passes, we will be able to resolve that by 1 January 2016. However, I will describe a model example of what the senators have forgotten. They say he must at least have high school. But the diction is different. They must have a high school or a high school in the fields of education, psychology, health care or social care. I am a proud graduate of grammar school and my classmates or colleagues who have graduated from high school and then a higher vocational school, according to what the senators suggest, cannot do that. Because they do not have high school education in the field of education, psychology, health care and social affairs. Because it's a general education. It is also said that they are elite secondary schools, I agree with that, but graduates of these elite secondary schools, if they did, for example, VOŠka, will not be able to provide those services that are already very successfully provided by many of them and many of them today. That's for explaining what you're saying - it's just not true that anyone who's a senior, yes, must have a higher vocational school and a high school, but according to the law, if he doesn't have a high school, he can't provide those services unless he has a high school. So it's not true that the senators were thinking about it. And then just a comment about it, I would have the fact that when I hear someone's proposing a law of contact, I'm just embarrassed by the name. I'd really like to say... What a little surprise. First of all, the reason messages are on our website. And secondly, we, for example, send the reports to our fellow Members in the Senate and provide them, including the explanatory reports on the amendments, and we do not need the law to do so. It is within normal political communication within the political party. So I don't think we need to adopt another law that will address the communication between the House and the Senate again. But if we make a gentleman's agreement that there will be special amendments to the Senate, which have been approved, with a justification that is very often embedded in the system, and vice versa that the gentleman's agreement that the Senate will send us with a justification, it will be easier for all of us. I think if the House and Senate leadership gets together, there's a deal to be made, put these tasks in the administration of both chambers, and we don't have to break and try another law, and it might work. But I agree that it is more advantageous for both chambers to have - because you will not know what the original proposal was and what was voted as an amendment in that text. We send it to our colleagues. And if the House administration does it, it'll be easier for all of us. On the other hand, when the Senate administration sends us a explanatory note for this - the point is that we, who are proposing amendments to the text, have also written a few words, a few sentences, a few paragraphs, what we are proposing. The point is that our colleagues in the Senate do it. Then it'll be easier for everyone. But I think we can work this out without the law. All they have to do is meet for coffee, because we have little expenses for the House and the Senate, so when they meet for coffee, not for lunch, and they agree, they can give instructions, and our administration will certainly arrange that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u59	Thank you. Next, please, Senator Gajdůškovášková, the rapporteur, Mrs Jírovcová, after her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will bring the gentlemen's agreement to the Senate and I think it would be very good and it would help everyone. I didn't say a word about the law of contact, but that's how the President translated it. But I'll take the gentleman's deal. First of all. Two. About the qualifications. Yes, you can be right, if you're talking about the fact that a graduate of high school can't do according to the wording that we suggested in the Senate about the individual fields, that probably if we stick strictly to the interpretation again, that's the way it's going to be. But the problem is that he can't even do it according to the Chamber of Deputies, because there's an exhaustive list - an exhaustive list of disciplines, professions that can work in a children's group, including a medical paramedic. But then maybe there's no second-grade elementary school teacher. So this is it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u61	Thank you, Senator. The rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, has now taken the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u62	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not originally wish to speak, but let me make a few comments. I must say, I have listened carefully to all the speeches that have been said here. I also have to say that with admiration and wonder, I listened to the ODS club and that I fully agree with their views today on this bill. Otherwise, allow me to make a Senate proposal. I would like to say to the senator here that we have some explanation for the Senate proposal. I must say, for example, to paragraph 6, and in respect of Section 5 paragraph. 5 of the draft law, the professional competence of the caring person has been determined by precisely defined aspects. The Senate's approach to such regulation appeared to be too restrictive, and therefore the criterion for the professional competence of the caring person set out in secondary or university education from the areas - and these are listed. I must say that if it seemed too restrictive to the Senate, the Senate proposal thus tabled is even narrower and more restrictive. So maybe it would be better to read the original text as it was. I must also say that I am very sorry that this law is at the plenary of this House at all, because we say from the beginning that we do not really need this law. Let me just say that if any version of this law is adopted today, I appeal to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to insist strictly that in the name of the other emerging subjects of the children's group or other alternatives, as we call it, which are not in the register of kindergartens, there is no name of kindergarten or kindergarten at all. Because this is exactly how parents get confused who choose pre-school education for their children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-007-002.u63	I thank the rapporteur and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. So if no one is reporting, I am done with the debate. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will proceed to the vote pursuant to § 97 para. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. So first, I'm going to check you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on the provision of childcare services in the children's group and on the amendment of related laws, according to the Parliament's 82/5 press, as approved by the Senate, according to the House's 82/6 press.' I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 114, registered 153 Members of Parliament, for 55, against 75. We have not accepted the text approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Madam Secretary, is he asking for something? No. It's just a gesture, thank you. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Please set the necessary kvorum. It's done. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on the provision of childcare services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended by the Senate, according to the House's 82/5 press.' [[20.50 hours]] I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 115, registered 154 Members, for 105, against 28. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill and that I am ending reading this law. I thank the Minister and the Vice-President of the Senate. The next item is:
