ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 12th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Mr. Jan Hamáček, Mr. Jan Hamáček, Mr. Kaňkovský, has a replacement card number 1 for today. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Adam Vojtěch - health reasons, Adámek František - personal reasons, Babiš Miloš - foreign travel, Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová Zuzka - personal reasons, Blažek Pavel - foreign travel, Bohdalová Vlasta - personal reasons, Černý Alexander - personal reasons, Číp René - personal reasons, Filip Vojtěch - no reason given, Fischerová Jana - family reasons, Holeček Jiří - family reasons, Holík Pavel - personal reasons, Horáček Václav - personal reasons. [[The President has quieted for a moment for a considerable noise in the hall.]] Member Chalánková Jitka - personal reasons, Janulík Miloslav - personal reasons, Kailová Zuzana - personal reasons, Kádner David - family reasons, Klaška Jaroslav - family reasons, Komárek Martin - personal reasons, Kořenek Petr - work reasons, Luzar Leo - personal reasons, Nekl Josef - health reasons, Němcová Miroslava - no reason given, Novotný Josef - working reasons, Pastuchová Jana - personal reasons, Procházka Roman - foreign trip, Sedláček Jan - working reasons, Strnadlová Miroslava - family reasons, Šenfeld Josef - personal reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the list is long, but I really can't scream you any more. Please keep it down. Thank you. Šincl Ladislav - health reasons, Urban Milan - health reasons, Vondrášek Josef - foreign travel, Zlatuška Jiří - personal reasons. Members of the Government: Brabec Richard - working reasons. I have an apology here for Secretary Jourová, but I see her here, so she's canceling her apology. Minister Němeček Svatopluk - working reasons, Minister Zaorálek Lubomír - working reasons. [[The noise in the room is still very intense.]] With the replacement card number 16, Mr Koubek is voting today. Mr Kučera is still apologizing for today's meeting. Mr Šenfeld cancels his apology, he is present for today's meeting. With replacement card number 13, Vice-President Gazdík is voting today. We will now proceed with the interrupted item number
