ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say that the Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 23rd meeting on 20 November of this year and the invitation was sent to you on Friday 21 November. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers, which was Mrs Berdychová's case, are valid as announced at the 20th meeting. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that Member Jiří Dolejš and Mr František Laudát be checked. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of the meeting verifiers being Members Jiří Dolejš and Mr František Laudát, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 1. It's registered 146, for 141, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 23rd meeting the masters of Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr František Laudát. I confirm that the apologies for today's meeting are consistent with the apologies made at the 20th meeting, plus also note my apology between 18 and 19 a.m. and also Mr Běhounek's apology, which apologizes between 15.30 and 18 p.m. So many apologies. We would now set up a agenda for the 23rd meeting, whose proposal was made at the invitation. I would like to inform you that Mr Adolf Beznoska has withdrawn the following proposals on behalf of the appellants: the proposal of Members of Adolf Beznoska, Petr Fiala, Ivan Adamec, Martin Novotný and others for the issue of the law amending the law of the Czech National Council No. 583/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, the press 184, and the proposal of Members of Adolf Besnosky, Petr Fiala, Jan Zahradník, Zbyněk Stanjura, Pavel Blažek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and other related laws, printing 205 at first reading. We shall not vote on this, just for information. So cut points 33 and 36. I would still like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium agreed. We propose to include a new item in the agenda of the 23rd meeting. He would have said: The proposal to set up a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the work of the Chamber of Deputies Office, House document number 1676, in the News block, proposals and others as the first item. We also propose to comply with the request of the mayor of the capital city of Prague, Mrs. Adriana Krnáčová, who asked for the elimination of paragraphs 18 and 103 of the draft agenda, which is press 115 at second and third reading, the Act on Prostitution Regulation, from the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the House, the reason for the election of the new council. We are still proposing to eliminate the following items in the proposal for a programme, i.e. points 12 and 97, which is the second and third reading of the school law, printing 288, and paragraph 19, print 309, first reading of the draft law on support for regional development. So many grémia designs. I have a whole series of applications for the agenda. The first is Mrs Němcová, followed by Mr Kalousek, then Mrs Chalánková, Mrs Černochová and the last so far, Mr Martin Kolovratník. The floor is with Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear members of the government, I would like to propose a new item on the agenda for this meeting, which would bear the name "Foreign Policy of the Czech Republic." The following things that have happened recently lead me to propose this point. We certainly all, not just us politicians, but certainly the public are also aware of the repeated discrepancy between the various speeches recently made by the President of the Republic, on the one hand, and some of the comments made by the members of the Government, headed by the Prime Minister, on the other. We note that, for the first time since 1989, our Euro-Atlantic ties have even been questioned. Czech Republic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u3	I'm very sorry. I ask that any consultation with members of the government be conducted outside this hall. And I beg the rest of you to take the seats in the benches and let the lady argue in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u4	The Czech Republic is shocked by its position not only in NATO structures, which we are a longtime member of, but also in the European Union, and, as I said, given the controversial statements on the one hand, the President of the Republic on the other hand, there is also a contradiction within the Czech Republic. And that wasn't all. There are still contradictions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, where we are necessarily aware of the isolated, special statements made by Deputy Minister Drulák, who is in fact questioning the current political course of the Czech Republic. I'll get back to him. I would like to introduce you gradually to the things that have happened, and why I think that we should talk about them on parliamentary grounds. Of course everything has its own development. Some events are already two months old, some three, some two weeks old, but Parliament is a supervisory authority with the task of controlling the government from the Constitution, and that is why this debate needs to be heard on Parliamentary soil. So I would like to mention first. As far as the President's statements are concerned, we could return until the beginning of September, when the first ones at the NATO summit in Wales called into question the fact that Russian soldiers are operating in Ukraine. [[14.20 hours]] He got into a controversy not only with then Swedish Prime Minister Carl Bildt, but also with the entire leadership of NATO, but also with the Prime Minister of the Czech Government and Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, who informed themselves that he was fighting around 5000 Russian soldiers in Ukraine. In the end, President Putin himself admitted that those who were originally there without designation in some weird camouflage that neither he nor the Foreign Minister Lavrov knew each other, so they finally admitted that they were their soldiers. Then the conference on Rhodes was followed on September 26th, when the President of the Republic attended it, at the invitation of the person on the penalty list, the Russian oligarch and close associate Vladimír Putin Vladimír Jakunin, who declared that the Ukrainian conflict and civil war are like the flu. This has been heard by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic - but I must ask whether this visit has been consulted with the Government and whether it has been in line with government policy. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] Then there was November 16th, when in an interview for Russian television, the first channel, the President of the Republic questioned sanctions against Ukraine and also its assistance -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u5	I apologise, Madame, but again, I ask, in particular, Members who consult their positions aloud so that they do not do so, both on the right and on the left. I even see a member of the government who consults, so please also - outside the meeting room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u6	In an interview for Russian television, the President of the Republic questioned the economic aid of both the European Union and the United States. And I wonder how this goes with the Prime Minister's opinion or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The contradiction between the President and our government is also demonstrated by the fact that, on 20 November, the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry invited our ambassador to Ukraine, Ivan Počuch, to say that the President's statements about Ukraine and its sovereignty, control of its borders and importance are the type that does not induce normal foreign friendly and solid relations between our countries. The hrad responded that he regularly consults his policy with the government, and that is what I want to ask the Prime Minister - whether these consultations are really ongoing or not, because either he invents the hrad when he claims to consult them regularly, and then he takes these steps on the basis of these consultations, or the hrad is lying, that is, the President's office, his spokesperson, and he is lying himself, and probably to shoot his latest media performances that need something just to overwhelm...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u7	I'm very sorry, but I really can't go on like this. Madam, I'll deal with them myself. You don't have to represent me. I strongly ask you to take your seats, or I will be forced to interrupt the House meeting. We all know what we have on the agenda and how such an interruption would be interpreted. So please don't push my patience and let the lady argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u8	I don't have much on my mind anymore. I tried to be factual and support my request to include a new point in more factual information than any of my leads, because I think that would be part of the next part of a possible debate if it were included. However, here I must mention the events that President Zeman mentioned during his visit to Kazakhstan on 25 November, when he began to talk about Ukraine being neutral, and he also spoke about the finlandization that he considers optimal at this moment for this part of our world. I am convinced that there is a clear disharmony between the statements of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, and finally the Prime Minister of America sends various mortifying messages to both the President and Deputy Minister Drulák. I absolutely cannot understand that one official simply can practice with the politics and good name of our country in the way he does it and is not immediately fired. So these are my questions that I wanted to raise in the debate. I wish, or request, the House, that a point called Foreign Policy of the Czech Republic be placed as the second point of our meeting today, and thank you for your attention to those of you who have listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, too, and I have the proposal recorded. President Kalousek and Mrs Chalánková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to propose the inclusion of a new item on the agenda for this proper meeting. The inclusion leads me, on the one hand, to the fact that, together with the government, we believe that one of the key priorities of the Czech Government is the smooth and efficient drawing of resources from the Structural Funds of the European Union and, on the other, a bit of my position as a memorial - I apologize for it. However, I remember that for the planning period 2007 to 2013 the end of 2014 is comparable to the end of 2007. 2007 to 2013 was the first whole period that we participated in, and at the end of 2007, i.e. in the first year of this planning period, the then government of Mirek Topolánek had agreed and signed with the European Union all operational programmes except one, which was science and research, the administrator of the programme, Minister Kuchtová. And because at the end of 2007 this operational programme did not reach agreement with each other, it was mercilessly removed from the government by the Prime Minister at the end of the first year of this planning period that one programme was not signed. [[14.30 hours]] It is 2014, the first year of the planning period 2014 to 2020 - and the Czech Government does not have agreed and signed one single operational programme, with the prospect that this will indeed be no different in the coming months. I am not going to ask the Prime Minister whether he will proceed as hard, uncompromisingly and in principle as Prime Minister Topolánek did at the time, because, after all, we must have a government, but I believe that at a meeting where we will discuss the basic standard for reducing national resources, we should also hear information as to how it looks with the planning of drawing Union resources. Therefore, I would like to propose a point to the Prime Minister's information on the state of reconciliation of the operational programmes of the Czech Republic with the European Commission, and I would like to propose that the President should have some time to prepare, as the first point next Tuesday at the start of the House. I would not like this to be seen as any opposition obstruction. I think it's a very serious matter. We don't have a chance to close one single operational program by the end of this year - and it's 2014. In my opinion, we have a chance to close two by the middle of next year. Everything else is in the stars. The degree of incompetence, incompetence, hesitance and threat to the use of these resources is absolutely extraordinary. And we already have a comparison. We have a comparison with the first period with 2007 and we know when the operational programmes were signed and how the government is doing in this planning period and at the same time does not always forget to stress what priority it is for it. I could be wrong. Maybe the Prime Minister will make a mistake, maybe he'll tell me it's great that we'll close it right after New Year's. But I think that The Chamber of Deputies has the right to know, which is why I would like to propose the inclusion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u11	Yes, thank you. We'll vote on it. Mrs Chalánková and Mrs Černochová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Let me go back and ask for the inclusion of a point concerning the case of Denis a David Michalákův, Czech children in Norway. As you will all remember, this entire Chamber of Deputies has brought here a whole series of interventions on this matter, both for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and for the various ministers who have competence in this matter, let this apply to the Minister of Human Rights, Minister Válková, Minister Marksová-Tominová and Minister Zaorálek. I have repeatedly received a lot of answers as it is not possible for these children and for this mother to do anything. You have heard everything because all these interpelations have been given in writing and they have all been discussed on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies. Indeed, nothing has helped these children or other activities, and the case is moving toward an unfortunate end. In September another meeting took place, which I have already informed you about, on the ground of social law protection for children in Norway, when the mother was already threatened that if she did not stop her activities in the Czech Republic, the children would be taken away from her for adoption. The date of this adoption is approaching, and if negotiations are confirmed on 10 December, this term can also be considered as a possible start of the process of bringing children into adoption. I consider this case to be very urgent, and I therefore once again ask the entire Chamber of Deputies why I wear this case and why I interpel both the Prime Minister and the various ministers. These children live permanently with their parents, with their mother, currently being taken into foster care in Norway. They are still and continue to be Czech citizens. Both these children and mother have citizenship of the Czech Republic with permanent residence Hodonín. Nevertheless, I feel that if these children were to appear in any way in the Czech Republic, then the Czech Republic and the Czech state authorities will return them to Norway with an apology. I warned you that these are Czech citizens and are taken into Norwegian foster care. I hope you hear what I'm saying. Norwegian courts, if the Norwegian State does not hear and is not aware of the strong intervention of the Czech Republic, as it occurred for example. in the case of Indian children, when diplomatic intervention took place and the children were handed over to their parents and sent home, the Norwegian State will continue to do whatever it deems appropriate. With our citizens [[Constantly loud noise in the hall!]] I'll tell you what I'm based on. I am based on § 56 para. 1 of Law No. 89/2012 Coll., on International Private Law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u13	I am very sorry, Madame. Once again, the noise level is above bearable levels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u14	If the competence in matters of maintenance obligations and matters of parental responsibility is not regulated by the directly applicable regulations of the European Union, in matters of nutrition, education and other matters of care for minors, including measures to protect their person and property, the jurisdiction of the Czech courts is given if the minor is normally resident in the Czech Republic or if he is a citizen of the Czech Republic, even if he is normally resident abroad. During yesterday, I visited the Office of the Office of International Child Protection, where I learned information that really did not please me. The director of this office told all those involved, where representatives of individual ministries were at the level of officials, that the Office for International Child Protection is a Czech state body whose competence ends at the borders of this country, and other states do not have to accept its activities. I really don't understand why we have such an office. The role of citizenship is constantly being questioned here, and the individual responses to the interpelations make it clear that individual ministers do not coordinate their actions. The Norwegian State must be responsible for the system they have in Norway. If he defends that the decision of the family courts in this matter is behind closed doors and there is no authority and no information to be obtained, then the system is wrong. It is an opaque system and the management of the Norwegian State is responsible for it. But I repeat again, these are Czech citizens who have turned to the Czech state for help. Mother, as I have repeatedly told you, has been cleared of all suspicions, no charges have been filed against this mother. Mother can see her children only twice a year two hours, she must not speak Czech with them and she must show no feeling, no emotional attachment to these children. I ask the Czech Government, and I also ask you to support me, in order to really fully pursue this matter. I propose the inclusion of this point as the second point right after the first point of this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u15	My colleague, I apologize, however much we may be able to resolve this by voting, but the second point has already been proposed by Mrs Němcová, so theoretically... So after him as the third point. Okay. Mrs Černochová is now reporting. I apologize to Mrs Kovářová from today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address you, my colleagues, in the same way as Mrs Chalánková, in order to include for the next Tuesday as item number 1, a fixed item entitled Information by the Prime Minister and relevant ministers on the removal of children of Czech citizens by the Norwegian authorities. [[14.40 hours]] I know this Chamber of Deputies has heard a lot about this case. The case has been pending since 20 May 2011. We're at the end of 2014. I guess each of you realizes how every week, every month, every six months, it plays a role in the lives of those two boys. Therefore, please do not take today's view that the opposition would like to explore, would like to place new points on the agenda. That's why I'm suggesting it next week, not this week, so that the Prime Minister and the ministers concerned can...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u17	Once again, I ask the relevant colleagues not to hold the consultation behind the speaker's back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u18	So that the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers can prepare themselves to obtain the necessary information so that we really are not just some passengers who follow this story, a terrible story, from a moving train. I think that our legislature has the opportunity to adopt a resolution that would just lead to what my colleague Chalánková has mentioned here. The new fact is that on 4 November 2014 the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg announced that it had not accepted the complaint of the Czech mother and found it inadmissible, because the mother could have contacted the Norwegian court again in April and asked for the children to be entrusted to it. She hasn't done it yet, so she says she hasn't exhausted all the remedies she has in Norway. If information about the fact that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has actually dealt with and rejected the complaint, this information is based on the truth, so I ask that we give some room to both the Prime Minister and the Ministers. The last, albeit theoretical obstacle to the Czech Republic's taking Eva Michaláková and her sons under diplomatic protection, falls and officially informs the Government of the Kingdom of Norway that they still consider their private dispute to be an interstate dispute between the Czech Republic and Norway within the meaning of public international law. It is now only up to the Czech Republic to decide whether to proceed to this exceptional and unprecedented Czech-Norwegian relationship. Unfortunately, so far the Czech party has rejected it, but now the reasons that Minister Zaorálek and other ministers have already told us have fallen. If information is confirmed that the European Court of Human Rights has rejected the complaint. As my colleague Chalánková rightly said here, India took a similar step in a similar case, which was equally appalling, only lasted less than a year. This case has been going on for four years! Siblings are separated, each living in a different foster family. If you want more information, you can visit me on the bench or Mrs Chalánková, and we can actually get you to know the details of this case. If you do not know what diplomatic protection is, it is the terminus technicus, which means that the state of A - the Czech Republic - will say that the dispute of its citizen, that is, Mrs Eva, Denis and David Michalákův, with the state of B, it is with Norway, it considers it its own, and thus it will make it an interstate dispute between the Czech Republic and Norway. In the beginning, perhaps it would be appropriate to issue an appropriate diplomatic note that will require the immediate return of children to their homeland. You know, I don't want to see this case actually go on long enough for the kids to be 18 years old. And unfortunately, somewhere on the media networks and subliminally, when I was talking to some lawyers and lawyers, I came to the conclusion - and the impression is not just on me - that the Czech Republic is afraid that this dispute could be lost. Norwegian money. And I think that we are also legislators to defend the rights of our citizens. Not to mention that in other cases, in the case of Mr Bubeník, in the case of Mr Pilip and the two photographers in Greece - Mr Bubeník, we were able to pull out of the clutches of Cuba, the rapporteur or the photographers who worked with the army, we were able to pull out of Greece, and here we are unable to take care of our own citizens? And we're not able to help this family, and no one is willing to really pursue this case to make it happen... I'd like to ask you, Prime Minister, if I speak, you're not here to talk to me. [[in the government bench]] Thank you. So put rhetorical questions on the microphone, please, this is not a form of dialogue. Thank you. So I would ask my honored colleagues to actually think about this case, ask all those sitting in positions where they can do something about it to do something about it. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently tends to argue that Mrs Michaláková has not exhausted all the remedies. According to them, the new action is an appeal under Sections 4 to 21, which is the law on the competence of Barneverne, which is now being prepared by the new Norwegian lawyer, Mrs Michaláková. But what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs claims is untrue for two reasons. Mrs. Michaláková won't appeal to anything. She is launching a completely new procedure from scratch, at the lowest administrative stage. Then all possible appeals and summons will follow again. It is necessary to realise what the substance of the procedure under Sections 2 to 21 is. If Mrs Michaláková had agreed to such a thing, she would have had to make a statement roughly as follows: I was a horrible woman, a wife, a terrible mother to her children. I've been through therapy, I visit a regular psychiatrist. Thank you, Norwegian Bureau, for taking my children away from me. But now I beg you to consider me competent to raise your children and kindly give them back to me! I think we'll all understand that Mrs. Michaláková doesn't want to serve this humiliated soup. In theory, she could administer it every 12 months until she's 18 years old. There is even a case in the Czech Republic of a woman who has asked for five times in this way. And therefore, ergo, according to the logic of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, could never apply diplomatic protection, because this type of remedy will be available to Mrs. Michaláková forever. But please, we can discuss this in a discussion that might not be long. We should just have information from the Prime Minister, from the relevant ministers. And the way the Prime Minister blundered behind me that our government could do something three years ago - she couldn't! As I said here - and if, instead of talking to someone, Prime Minister, if you had listened to me, you would have noticed that I said that on 4 November 2014 the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg announced that he had not accepted a complaint from the Czech mother. This exhausted the last means to prevent this from being dealt with diplomatically. Thank you for your attention and I beg you very much to support the proposal. To include the item entitled Information of the Prime Minister and relevant ministers on the removal of children of Czech citizens by the Norwegian authorities for next Tuesday, that is 9. 12, first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u19	Yes, yes, yes. Mr kolovratník now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u20	Good afternoon, Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My requests and suggestions will not be as shaky and challenging as the previous ones. They are rather organisational proposals from the electoral committee. First of all, I'm going to ask you to remove item No. 104, changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, therefore, concern electoral points. The elimination of paragraph 104 is because no proposal has been submitted to our Commission. And then I beg you to place the next block of polling points firmly together in one block. It is point 105 - the Head of Permanent Delegation to the Interinstitutional Union, 106 - the Head of Permanent Delegation to the Central European Initiative, 107 - the election of the Chairman of the Commission of Investigation on D47, point 108 - the election of the members of the Council of the State Fund of Culture, and point 109 - the election of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Wine Fund. And I would like to ask for a firm classification of these points. I will repeat once again: 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109 for tomorrow, i.e. on Wednesday, December 3, as the last point before lunch break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u21	This would mean great optimism on your part, because tomorrow is the second reading of the state budget, and I'm afraid we won't end it before noon. So you will either have to agree with the Minister of Finance that the state budget item will be interrupted and that we can put the polling points firmly there at 12.30, which may be provided that the Minister of Finance agrees, or you have to come up with some other proposal. [[A Member of the Collosurables is consulted outside the microphone with the Minister of Finance.]] I know the House must agree to this, but in the context of good relations in the ANO movement, it would probably be nice for the Minister of Finance to agree. Then what have you come to?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u22	We discussed it at the club, I think we're able to reach a compromise, if we put those voting points in at 13:00, so we're able to make the choice to add up the results and introduce them during the afternoon part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u23	That's where I'm afraid the organizational committee is being convened, so it's not going to work either. Don't you want to do it on Thursday? I think it would be wiser to do it on Thursday at 12:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u24	I see optical control nodding between all the MPs, so I agree, I have no problem with that. At least we don't crash the state budget negotiations. So I propose the same format, but Thursday 4. 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u25	Okay, copy that. I'm sorry. The last one registered at this stage is President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u26	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I would say a few sentences here first and then try to formulate the title of the point, because at this point, we don't have the Minister of Transport. I just read on servers that our national carrier of České dráhy is doing everything he can. I really don't think so. It's not that trains can't be dispatched. It is clear that this is a matter that neither the Czech Railways nor the Railway Infrastructure Administration will affect. But what the Czech Railways can influence is how they take care of clients who are trapped. Absolutely... I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region and spent half last night making calls with people who either traveled to Prague or from Prague. At the moment when it was clear that trains did not pass at least from Olomouc to Ostrava, České dráhy told other and other speedsters to stop, in the field and leave people without help, without refreshment, without heat. They even provided bad information. At the time of the cell phones! České dráhy worked as it did forty years ago, when one fixed line falls out. For example: Move from the Pendolino, now the passenger train will go to Cologne and from Cologne the train will go back to Prague. Many did so, arrived in Cologne and told them in Cologne: No, no one could tell you that in the Czech Railways, no train will go to Prague. Then maybe RailJet came, at least he was warm, full of strangers. He stayed in Cologne, after a few minutes, the passengers drove off the train, saying there'd be bad air. To the cold hall, where many mothers really warmed their own children with their bodies. No refreshments or anything. I think we need to get some information next Tuesday. It's probably up to the Prime Minister because I don't know if we can ask the Minister of Transport. I know he's supposed to be appointed on Thursday. I want us to make it clear that they could not ride trains and how the Czech Railways treat clients. I'm not talking about private companies. That's their responsibility. I don't even have news. I have news from my fellow citizens from my region as it worked in the Czech Railways. And they were hundreds or thousands of people who spent the night in undignified conditions. Today's announcement, which I take for granted is that someone will return the fare, and it's still like a celebratory message - but we didn't take care of those people! I think it's a big mistake. We do not have the Minister of Transport, but we have the Management Committee of the Czech Railways, which can, of course, deal with both management and supervisory board. I think we should get a report on whether the Czech Railways have done the right thing and whether they have taken care of their clients or not. According to my information, and I'm saying, I'm from the county where the main move was stopped, those clients were taken care of badly. Many were sleeping on trains, which was even better than those who had to sleep in cold, unheated station halls. I propose that the Prime Minister, if he entrusts it to another member of the government, I have no problem, if we include this point, next Tuesday as a third point, he should give us information about the functioning of state organizations at the time of the calamity - whether České dráhy or SŽDC. And just to the edge. There are things the layman doesn't fully understand, so maybe we could get an explanation for the message that's hanging on the servers from now on, that everything works in Ruzyne, everything's running, and the only one who's had a problem is a military special in Kbely. The only aircraft that has not been able to fly or operate in the Czech Republic is a military special, everything else in the civilian sector simply works without any problems. I really don't understand. So I would ask for that information about how České dráhy worked, and especially České dráhy, because I say that it could not be driven, everyone will understand that, as well as the information why the only aircraft that had a problem with departure is a military special.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u27	Yes, I'll ask if anyone else is applying for the agenda. [[He's not reporting.]] If this is not the case, I will call in colleagues from the lobby and we will deal with individual proposals. We do not have to vote on Mr Beznoska's proposals; they are withdrawn. From Gremium, there is a new item for the House's work committee, download points 18 and 103, plus elimination points 12, 97 and 19. I'll ask if we can vote at once. [[Disagree from the diaper.]] Gradually? Okay. The first point proposed by the Grémium is to include a new point, which is the proposal to set up a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the work of the Chamber of Deputies Office, document 1676, in the News block, proposals and others as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 2, it has 168, for 153, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Second point - meet the request of the Mayor of Prague and eliminate points 18 and 103. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 3, registered is 168, for 153, versus 2. This proposal was adopted. Another proposal - it is two points, but it is a logical link, points 12 and 97, which is the second and third reading of the same bill, namely the school law. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 4, registered 168, for 159, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Paragraph 19, print 309, first reading of the draft Regional Development Support Act. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? (Vote has number 5.) The entry is 169, for 163, no one opposed. This proposal was adopted. This is the proposals from the Gremium and now the individual proposals as they were lectured from the diaper. Mrs Němcová - to include a new point as the second point of today's negotiations, the title would be Foreign Policy of the Czech Republic. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 6, registered is 170, for 48, against 78. This proposal has not been adopted. [[15.00 hours]] Mr Kalousek, a new item: Information of the Prime Minister on the state of reconciliation of operational programmes of the Czech Republic with the European Commission. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? Yes. And he wants it to be the first point next Tuesday. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 7, registered is 170, for is 60, against 73. This proposal has not been adopted. Mrs Chalánková, a new point: Kauza Denis and David Michalákův in Norway. Is that correct, madam? [[No objections.]] And he wishes to include it as in this case the first point next Tuesday. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 8, registered is 170, for 95, against 45. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] This proposal was adopted. And I am going to ask Mrs Černochová at this point, because she has proposed more or less the same thing, whether she insists on one more point or whether she will accept the inclusion of Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u28	I thank you very much for the support of my fellow Member's proposal. It's identical, so I'm downloading my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u29	Yes, thank you. Mr Kolovratník, first of all, rule out paragraph 104, which is a change in the House's bodies. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 9, registered 170, for 152, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Then Mr Kolovratník asks that we place points 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109 firmly on this Thursday at 12.30, i.e. this Thursday 12.30 firmly these points. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 10, registered is 171, for 166, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. The last point is the point of President Stanjura: Information of the Prime Minister or a member of the Government responsible for the functioning of the state organizations of České dráhy and the Railway Infrastructure Administration in the Ice Calamity period. Is that okay with that? [[Member Stanjura agrees.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 11, logged in 171, for 96, versus 43. The motion was accepted. I will ask President Stanjura, where did he propose to put the point, because I should have said so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u30	I proposed next week on Tuesday afternoon after those points, if they are voted, so after Mrs Chalánková's point, i.e. in this case as the second point on Tuesday next week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-000-000.u31	Okay. [[Noise in the hall.]] It was like a second point. Can we consider it proven that we voted on it? Is there no objection to that? [[No one's checking in.]] So the way it was designed for a microphone, as the second point on Tuesday, is firmly classified. No one's asking for another vote. [[He doesn't.]] Thank you. We have dealt with the amendments. And we still have to vote on the agenda of the meeting as a whole. So I ask who agrees to approve the whole proposal for the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing and amended by the approved amendments. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 12, registered is 172, for 167, versus 2. This proposal has been adopted and the agenda has been approved. We will therefore proceed to the first point of the meeting, which is:
