ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-008-041.u1	41. Government bill amending Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, and Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended /German Press 203/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. I ask Mr Jiří Koubek, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table, if that is the case. Yes, it is. So now I ask the Home Secretary to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-008-041.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the Government's mandate, let me introduce a government bill amending the Act on administrative charges and the Road Traffic Act. That draft law lists the administrative fee for providing data from the accident record and also repeals Decree No. 218/2006 Coll., on reimbursement for providing data from the accident record. Administrative fee newly introduced under item 3 (b). (g) the tariff remained at the rate fixed by the contested decree, i.e. CZK 100. The incorporation of this payment into the Act on Administrative Charges now gives the authorities a procedural procedure to deal with complaints of applicants for the assessment and handling of administrative charges and thus strengthens the procedural rights of applicants. [[17.40 hours]] On the basis of the urgent requirements of practice, the draft law also introduces a new administrative fee for the submission of a proposal to determine the legal relationship and the fee for the submission of a proposal for a decision to a dispute under a public contract. In the context of the adoption of the new administrative order, the authorities have been authorised since 2006 to decide on proposals to determine a legal relationship and to resolve disputes arising from public contracts. The submission of a proposal to determine a legal relationship or to initiate a dispute in public contracts shall not be subject to an administrative fee at present. In doing so, it is the so-called nature. civil proceedings contested which should be subject to a judicial fee. The amount of the newly introduced administrative fee for disputes arising from public contracts under item 25a of the tariff is graduated according to the amount of the subject matter of the cash transaction, however, unlike the judicial fee, it is limited to a maximum amount of CZK 1 million. The administrative fee is set at a uniform maximum of CZK 2 000 in the case of a dispute concerning the determination of a legal relationship or a dispute between a public contract which is not the subject of a cash transaction. The revenue from these administrative charges should primarily serve to cover the increased administrative costs of the administrative authorities deciding on the case. The administrative fee should also include: encourage applicants not to make ill-considered, manifestly unfounded or multiple proposals. Where the appellant succeeds in the proceedings, the fee shall be refunded to him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-008-041.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jiří Koubek. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-008-041.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, Mr Minister. I thank Minister Chovanc for, I would say, the purest essence that can be presented from the bill. It is therefore a draft law amending Act No. 634/1994 Coll., on administrative fees, when a new fee is introduced and at the same time the relevant decree, which amended the fee, and the second issue, which will be amended by this law, is Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic. On the Minister's words, I would just like to add the information you have in the explanatory memorandum that, as far as the first point is concerned, it is actually based on the Ombudsman's initiative, who has alerted the Government that there are also fees in the administration or public administration that are not actually mentioned in the administrative order, although they are of that nature. The government, then Nečasův's government, has commissioned the Ministry of the Interior to analyse these charges in public administration and is therefore presented on the basis of this analysis and presented this bill. I suggest you release them until further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-008-041.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I note that I have no application for a general debate. I therefore ask who is reporting from place to place in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. There is probably no interest in final words when there was no debate, neither from the rapporteur nor from the Minister. We will deal with the motion for a commandment, because when there was no debate, there was no motion for rejection or return. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide on this proposal in the vote order number 22... but I am afraid I will have to unsubscribe. But I think the condition is consistent. I have begun voting order number 22 and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Who's against it? In the vote order number 22 of 172 present for 133, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the deadline for discussion is 60 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and finish point 41 According to the approved agenda, we are returning to the submitted second reading. We'll deal with the point.
