ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u1	54. Health 2020 - National strategy for health protection and disease prevention /house print 113/ This material will be presented by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health is presenting health materials to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 2020 - National Strategy for Health Protection and Disease Prevention, which is a framework summary establishing the development of public health in the Czech Republic and, at the same time, an instrument for implementing the World Health Organization 2020 programme in the Czech Republic. The Czech Government supported the national strategy by its resolution number 23 of 8 January 2014. In accordance with this resolution, the material was handed over to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic on 29 January to ensure the promotion of realization. The main objective of the national strategy is to improve the health of the population and reduce the incidence of diseases and premature deaths that can be prevented. The main vision is the development of the public health system, the stabilisation of the disease system and the protection and promotion of health and the start of effective and sustainable mechanisms to improve the health situation of the population. The necessary prerequisite for achieving the main objectives and priorities of the national strategy is the involvement of all the components of the state administration and the entire society, with emphasis on the participation of communities and individuals. National strategy follows the long-term programme of improving the health status of the population of the Czech Republic Health 21 supported by the Government of the Czech Republic in 2002 and is fulfilling the government's requirement to update this strategic document. Health 21 remains a full document whose updated objectives will be implemented in the implementation documents of the national strategy. This strategy is based on an analysis of that long-term programme in 2003-2012, on the concept of sanitary service and primary prevention in the protection of public health adopted by the Ministry of Health in 2013 and the World Health Organisation Programme 2020. The national strategy will be further developed into individual implementation documents according to the established priorities of the health status of the population of the Czech Republic. In individual implementation documents, which will be prepared by 31. 12. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue will be used to provide additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. The financing of national strategies and follow-up documents is envisaged among others. the use of European funds. The existence of a national strategy as a national strategic document is a precondition for the use of funds from the European Structural and Investment Fund for the entire health sector in the period 2014-2020. The implementation of the national strategy and implementation documents at inter-ministerial level will be ensured and coordinated by the Health and Environment Council. In this respect, Government Resolution No 660 of 21 August 2013 amended the Statute of the Council and the National Strategy was discussed at the Council meeting on 11 December 2013. Implementation procedure of the World Health Organisation programme Health 2020 including the priorities of the national strategy was discussed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which expressed its support by its resolution number 50 of 26 November 2013. The National Strategy was also presented to the Committee on Health to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies, which, in its resolution number 24 of 5 March 2014, identified the stabilisation of the disease prevention and health prevention system as necessary and also called on the Government to support the implementation of the national strategy and to take it into account when creating the state budget. The material is therefore now presented to the Chamber of Deputies for expressing support to the principles and priorities of the national strategy as well as for expressing support for the actual implementation of the national strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House Press discussed the Committee on Health, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 113/1. I ask that Mr Rostislav Vyzula take the floor of the Committee's rapporteur, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear government, allow me only briefly to supplement the Minister, because everything essential has been said. This national strategy also aims to contribute to addressing the complex health problems of the 21st century linked to economic, social and demographic development, in particular through disease prevention and health protection and promotion. In support of this strategy, I would mention a few epidemiological data. Over a period of less than ten years of implementation of the Health 21 programme, i.e. in 2012, the growth of the hope of survival at birth in men continued for nearly 75 years and in women for 81 years. Of course, this growth is related to a decrease in mortality, i.e. mortality. It is true, therefore, that the health situation of our population is improving, but long-term and short-term strategies are absolutely necessary. The two basic areas that bother us are cardiovascular diseases and cancer. The Czech Republic in the early 1990s was one of the highest mortality rates for cardiovascular diseases in Europe. Between 2000 and 2012, this mortality dropped by about 25 percent, a certain success. However, despite this improvement, it is still about twice as high, which is worse than in the advanced European countries, the former European fifteens. However, mortality on coronary artery disease has not changed in recent years. This is probably all related to the exhaustion of medical care and new technologies and, on the other hand, only a gradual change in the lifestyle of the Czech population. The number of smokers in the population cannot be reduced, the number of patients with type 2 diabetes increases and the number of obese people in the population increases. As far as national diseases are concerned, their incidences, i.e. the annual increase, are growing steadily. Last year, we had some 80,000 new cancers, which, for example, was only 17,000 more compared to the year 2000. So this is a problem that needs to be addressed. The Committee on Health has therefore dealt with this issue and reached a resolution that I would like to make here. Resolution of the Health Committee. First point. The Health Committee took note of the document Health 2020 - National strategy for health protection and health and disease prevention presented by Dr. Vladimír Valenta, PHD, Deputy Minister of Health for Public Health Protection and Support, Chief Hygiene of the Czech Republic. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to support the implementation of the national strategy in the form of cooperation of all ministries and to take account of health aspects in all policies. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take into account the implementation of the national strategy for the approval of the state budget. Two. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee to the Assembly of Deputies. On the basis of this, both the material submitted and the resolution of the Health Committee, I recommend that you give my consent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am launching a general debate in which Mr Heger and Mr Hovorka signed up. I therefore call on Mr Heger to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would also briefly stress the importance of the strategy, because it represents the part of the health system that is now called public health in the world. In our country, it is a sphere that is represented by a health service that coordinates it. Otherwise, in public health, it is known that all government departments must be involved in the sense that education must take care of raising children to health, the Ministry of Transport on transport safety, etc. It's a thing that's completely nationally cross-sectional. Public health has been highlighted in Europe, especially after the 2008 economic crisis, and what has now been neglected in the development of its own healthcare service, that prevention is much cheaper, much more active in the recovery of the entire population, and leads to a reduction in the needs of the health budget, which has been mentioned here repeatedly recently, as it is very tense. Just to illustrate, I'm going to say one number in the statistics. It is clear how life expectancy has grown over the last 20 years, but unfortunately life expectancy has increased in sickness, so life expectancy is seven years shorter than in Sweden compared to the Nordic countries. And that's where we need to make an effort that, according to this concept, will coordinate the sanitation service. Following the weakening that has taken place in the sanitary service, which has been particularly concerned with supervisory matters and certain rationalising measures, it is necessary to strengthen what has been neglected over the past 20 years, and this is, in particular, a component of health education and a healthy way of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Hovorka's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, dear government, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to two issues in this press - that we have a significant increase in diabetics and obese people, even in the case of children, of relatively young people. There is an increase in malignant neoplasms and the Czech Republic is one of the worst in this assessment. He's behind us now, I think, only Hungary and Poland. Key areas of prevention in some European countries, referred to by this press - emphasizes, for example, smoking, alcohol, overweight, diabetes, depression, obesity, children and youth in Slovakia, heart and blood vessels diseases, mental health. It can therefore be seen that even these two countries have very similar solutions priorities. A very serious finding is made when you read a graph that shows how funds were provided from the state budget to support a public health project between 1996 and 2011. This graph is really tragic. Over this period, the volume of funding decreased annually. While it represented 35 million crowns in 1996, it was already completely negligible in 2011 and amounted to only 3 million crowns. Preventing disease and promoting health is the cheapest way to reduce the cost of health care. This is a widely known fact. Nevertheless, the Czech State has been reducing the cost of disease prevention and health promotion in the long term. Information on how people's health in the Czech Republic is developing is available and clearly demonstrates in this press what preventive programs both funds and world programmes need to be used to improve the situation. The issue of overweight, which most often concerns schoolchildren in a number of cases, should be pointed out that the school cafeteria continues to follow the prevailing regulations probably of the Ministry of Health, which supply children unnecessarily caloric meals with small fruit and vegetables. [[10.20 hours]] There is also a lack of communication that since 2006, the health services and health institutions have been decimated and the number of health care professionals in active employment, doctors, has decreased to a third, from 6,000. 2,000. People. Many people, who have also dealt with these preventive and health protection programmes in health institutions, are no longer working in state services. This is what I think is alarming information and that it is worth turning this trend around and really increasing the popularity of this field and getting people able to work for the health service and health institutions who would focus on the increasingly deteriorating health situation of the Czech population in the areas I have talked about and focused on preventive programs that can help us save significant resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. I now have Mr Nykl's factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u10	Hello, Madam President, dear colleagues. As has been said here, we have basically exhausted all possibilities of acute care in terms of the treatment of myocardial infarction. I, who work at the cardiocenter, can confirm from my experience that acute care is absolutely perfect. You could say having a heart attack in the Czech Republic is better than having a heart attack in New York. At least that's how we hear it at congresses. But we have to prevent it. And there I have to say from my own practice, what we sometimes see in the O.R., that they bring us patients who smoke 60 to - we have a record record record 104 cigarettes per day! That's unbelievable. I hope that this year when our Ministry of Health prepares a new, high-quality anti-smoking law, I am already looking forward to changing our position, we can stand up to that law, and we have a huge chance of improving the situation in cardiovascular medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. I still have Mr Herbert's application for de facto. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I have a request for the Minister. I would like to thank you for the fact that there is a strategy for protecting and promoting health. I know that our community and many municipalities and cities of the Czech Republic are involved in a national network of healthy cities that strives to promote health education. I think it would be good to continue to support cooperation with this organisation. And I would also intercede for that, because I know that sometimes it's very hard to get to the statistics on diseases, deaths for individual areas, municipalities and cities, even said that it's supposed to be getting paid by the health institution and so on, if there's anything we can do to support it so that we can get it as quickly and as easily as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u13	Thank you. Since no one is enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant or rapporteur whether they want to have the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to a detailed debate in which I have no application yet. However, I will ask the rapporteur if he can read the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u14	Madam President, the motion for a resolution would agree with the one set out in the Committee on Health. The Health Committee took note of the document Health 2020 - National Strategy for Health and Health and Disease Prevention presented by Dr. Vladimír Valenta, ., Deputy Minister of Health for Public Health Protection and Support, Chief Hygiene of the Czech Republic. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to support the implementation of the national strategy through cooperation of all departments and taking into account health aspects in all policies. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take into account the implementation of the national strategy for the approval of the state budget. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-007-054.u15	Thank you. Anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see. I'm ending the debate in detail. I shall vote on the motion for a resolution. I am voting on the resolution as presented by the petitioner. Initiating vote 52. I ask who's in favor, let him press the button and raise his hand. Thank you. Who's against it? I'm ending vote 52. The motion was accepted. Thank you. [[On the light board: 149 Members present, for 127, against zero.]] I have two things for the program here. First of all, Mr Koskuba apologizes for the afternoon's work. I would also like to ask - there is an application for interpelation, and Mr Andrej Babiš is intersected in the matter of privacy, but we are unable to read from the signature who submitted the interpelation. Who you have submitted, come so that we can assign a name to this topic for the afternoon. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Looks like the situation's been resolved. Write your name on the interview and bring it to me. Thank you. The next agenda is item number
