ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 /German press 331/ - first reading The general debate was interrupted before the midday break, and I see here as the next reporter - please the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Another enrollment before lunch was Mr Karel Fiedler. I ask Mr Karel Fiedler to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. So we'll continue with the state budget. I would first react briefly to the opening of my speech, or I would like to respond to what has already been said here in the debate. A colleague, Pavel Plzák, spoke here about the fact that, in the past, the food of the state budget, as it was being distributed here, or in our country, Kalouskův's bill, has been mentioned. And I would like to remind you that your current coalition partner, the Czech Social Democratic Party, has managed to eat through 8% of the growth of the economy in history, so you should think a little bit about whether this is the right way and how to proceed. This coalition government, which has been said here several times, unfortunately wants to continue to work with the ANO movement. It was said here by Jan Volný that the Němec criticized us for raising taxes in the area of the crisis. I attended a seminar held in the Chamber of Deputies last week and where the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, was also present. It was said at the beginning of this seminar that we made it all the way to where we came by the gradual tax cuts. That, therefore, has been said by you, Mr President, through Mr President. And then, as a big, basically opinion slapping sounded to me what Ivan Mikloš said, the former Minister of Finance of the Slovak Republic, and today a member of the Slovak National Council, who made it clear at this seminar that if they reduced the tax rate in the Slovak Republic, their tax collection increased. That is quite contrary to what the President of the Budget Committee said at the outset of this seminar. I would like to join the reminder of our Chairman Tomio Okamura and I would really like to know the answer to what was going on with the investment incentive for Nexes or Nexen, what is the name of the company, about employing employees. So we're really going to give investment incentives here, we're going to give up taxes, we're going to give up state budget revenue, we're going to employ workers from foreign states here, and we're going to pay unemployment benefits to our employees at the same time? That's the cutback on the state budget? Then I would also like to hear the answer to what has been said here about unused expenditure. Yes, I accept that, if expenditure is unused, that is positive information, positive report that they will be included in the expenditure of the state budget in 2015. I would like to ask for information on the volume in which these unused expenditures can be considered and used primarily for. And now, specifically, the budget. The budget presented, the actual figures available from the submitted document by the House Press 331, does not really correspond to the rhetoric that follows the submission of this budget. [[15.10 hours]] In 2012, to remind you, the real deficit was 101 billion. In 2015, the proposed deficit, as we all know, is 100 billion. There is one significant difference that in 2012 GDP decreased by 1% and GDP growth by 2,5 % is expected in 2015. I know 2.5 percent is a assumption, but to propose a budget with the same deficit of 100 billion. in the period of decline and in the period of growth, don't be mad at me, it's no pro-growth budget or any positive figures. This is unacceptable for us, for our parliamentary club. There have been many talk of investment here today. I understand the argument that if investment actions are not prepared, it is logical not to go ahead with investment actions. It is not reasonable to invest at any cost. But according to page 113 of the House press and what has been said here several times today, the expenditure on investment in your proposed state budget - I am speaking now to the government coalition - is not really higher than it has been in recent years. Therefore, I would consider it reasonable for you to admit that we are simply eating it, and we do not claim that it goes into investment when the government's data and tables clearly speak of the opposite data, they say completely different figures. The government is talking about improving tax collection. The Minister of Finance is talking about it. I have looked through the parameters of the proposed state budget, I have here the medium-term outlook of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 and 2017, but it is not clear from these figures that the government is counting on some improved tax collection. If I list page 28, table number 10, just for your information, the VAT that the government is submitting in the medium term for 2014 218 billion, for 2015 229 billion, for 2016 233 billion, for 2017 241 billion, rounded. So no dramatic change in tax collection. What we're talking about here, how we're going to collect taxes better, or your coalition, your Ministry of Finance, which you have occupied by your chairman, one thing is rhetoric that we're constantly hearing, but if I take the government's data, they're just saying that it's going to continue with the same trend. The growth curve of tax collection does not contain any dramatic changes. It's the same with cutting spending. There's talk of savings, how it's going to be saved, but when I look at page 30 of what's going on with the planned expenditures, it's completely similar. The numbers are similar, they're growing slightly. If we turn these numbers into a curve, it'll just keep going in the same direction. No dramatic change they're talking about. It has also been mentioned here today, and I have heard it several times from Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš that in 2017 it is expected that the state budget will finally be balanced. If I find table number 7 on page 6, again from the Ministry of Finance's government document, I will read there that in 2015 the deficit is expected to be 100 billion, in 2016 the deficit is expected to be 100 billion, in 2017 the deficit is expected to be 95 billion. So where's the balanced state budget? I don't really see him there. The chairman of our movement, Tomio Okamura, mentioned here in the morning debate that there is no concept of reducing the debt of the state. I'm gonna try to get a quick look at the backgrounds I've got ready. Yes. Again I quote from the material Medium-term outlook of the state budget of the Czech Republic, which is presented to the House by the Government. On page 51, Table 22: The share of state debt, this is an indication that Vice Prime Minister Babiš likes to refer to GDP as a percentage - so from the data submitted by the government, I read that for 2015 there is a projected deficit of 39.9 %, for 2016 the outlook for 4.8 % and for 2017 is 41.4 %. ejhle, no cutbacks, no percentage of GDP. The curve you've just stopped for 2015, it's growing up again in the state's debt. A line up is the total amount of state debt. Again, the figure that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš likes to use: 1,683 billion. According to government data, I stress, in 2013 1,683 billion, in 2015 1,683 billion, yes, it is the same digit. In 2016, however, the outlook envisaged by the government, which talks about reducing our debt, is already counting on a deficit of 1 783.7 billion. and for 2017 with a deficit of 1 879.5 billion. No matter how I look at these numbers, I really don't see any reduction in the Czech Republic's debt there either for 2015, or for 2016, or for 2017. The surrounding countries are counting on the possibility of lower growth. It's a shaky assumption, but there's no other way to think about it. We are simply based today, or the Ministry of Finance and the government are based on the fact that the growth of the economy will be 2.5 percent, but I then lack in these figures, which have already been mentioned by many of my colleagues, some reserve in the event of a change, and as we have heard today, it is very likely. Finally, I would like to say that the draft state budget in its figures, which the government itself puts forward, contradicts what the government is saying about this budget. This budget, as it has been presented to us, as I have now tried to show the specific figures from the government figures that I have quoted here, is no change in the trend. It is only the same continuation in the same style of existing budgets of this country. The same expenditure, roughly the same deficit, the same state debt, or, as I have quoted from past figures, slightly increasing. I'd like to remind you of one more detail. State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, it's in this material on page 40. Dear coalition, you're still talking and rejuvenating increased investment. From this government material I read that for 2015 it is 49.8 billion, for 2016 it is 43 billion. and for 2017 it is 46 billion. So where are the growing investments? I really don't see it by these numbers. Finally, this state budget is nothing new, it is not the savings promised, it is not the debt reduction promised. Unfortunately, this is only a continuation of existing trends. As has already been said by our club president and the president of our movement, we cannot subscribe to support this government draft budget and we will propose that it be re-designed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u3	I thank Mr Fiedler, who has caused his speech to shrink factual remarks. The first is Mr Urban, followed by Mr chovanec, followed by Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, really, a response to my colleague Fiedler through you. I would like to talk here about the reservation to social democracy historically, why it did not reduce debts in the great boom times. Even if I admit that she could do it a little faster, you should do one thing. Social democracy during those governments from 1998 to 2006 cleared the entire banking sector from banking socialism, from the debts that arose during the transformation of the Czech economy in the 1990s. Banks were recorded with dead claims that were taken to the then consolidation agency and consolidation bank, and all social democratic governments from 1998 to 2006 each year in the budget paid for the loss of this consolidation agency and consolidated banks in tens of billions of crowns in budgets. This means that for those, I don't know, six eight years, several hundred billion losses were paid, which arose in the transformation, when businesses borrowed, banks behaved socialistly, had no claims secured, so no one paid them back. If this had not happened, my friends, I would have thanked social democracy, the financial crisis that came in 2008 if these banks had not been healed, the financial crisis would have been much more dramatic for the Czech Republic. I admit that we may have been able to reduce our debt a little bit more, but in addition, consider honestly the loss of the 1990s in the transformation of banks and their recovery by governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u5	I thank Mr Urban. After that, Mr Chovanec, respectively. Minister Chovanec, who is not present. So I'm canceling his point of order. Another point of fact is made by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Fiedler was right about almost everything from my point of view. After all, our speeches have been copied in fundamental messages, whether it concerns an absolutely unnecessary increase in expenditure or, on the contrary, the strangulation of investment and the unacceptableness of this budget. I am just not sure, through the President, Mr Fiedler, whether we are aware of the fundamental priorities that are really at stake here. A few minutes ago, Forbes released a new report that Agrofert Andrej Babiš's gross profit increased by 25 percent in three quarters. I think that's the crucial report on the point we're discussing right now. Propaganda didn't lie, yes, at least somebody's gonna get better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u7	I thank Mr Kalousek. Another point of fact, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u8	Someone forgot the pen, just for starters. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only briefly respond to Mr Urban's words. My colleague, of course you're right about this. But before I became a member of this Chamber of Deputies, I've always wondered many times, "We've been in debt to banks, we've gotten them out of trouble. And then what did we do? We privatized the banks, and the banks started making very nice billions in turn. Wasn't it a gift to the new owners, Mr. Colleague?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u9	I thank Mr Fiedler for his point of view. Mr Pilný is now registered with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues and Colleagues, we have heard a lot of talk here about the budget. Some of them were factual, others were limited to ideological floscules that fit in the dictionary of fifty words. Some even reminded of it, although it was taken from Forbes magazine, radio Jerevan. So let's talk about the facts. Science, research and innovation expenditures have been criticised here. I've already said here once that the money spent in this direction resembles a pot that pours water into which there are holes. When we look at the results of applied research and the money that has been spent there all the time that applied research is financed in this way, the results that are real affect the Czech economy are trivial. It has been said that the only significant source is the research of Professor Holý in the order of one billion. In applied research, I'm not talking about basics right now, because of course it has to follow other criteria, it lacks metrics. So far it is done on the number of quotes in magazines, most of which were created in Slovakia, so it is easy. Tax concessions were accepted concerning investments by private companies in science, research and innovation. These benefits are enjoyed by about 500 companies. They're mostly big companies. The Czech Republic has virtually nothing of them. These companies came into this because they have money for financial advisors to defend them against the financial authorities. The financial authorities have no expertise as to the content of this matter, so they only assess the methodology drawn up there. That needs to be changed. There has been talk of setting up centres of excellence, which, thanks to their unsustainableness, are traps for European and national money. We can talk about the need to audit and inventory the Czech Academy of Sciences, because if we ask them how many computers they have, they just don't know it. It is not only about the material assets, but also about the intangible assets. This means that if this metric is not substantially corrected, adding money to this area is completely unnecessary. There was talk of infrastructure expenditure. We could paint another 50 billion if we didn't. The question is, can we even use them effectively? Here in the House we have talked about a number of blocks, which actually make the investment construction of line construction very difficult. This means that the reality is that the money that is there and which preserves the level that has been there will be very problematic in some way to spend and will need to adopt very quickly a number of legislative measures, which is also an appeal to you, colleagues and colleagues, so that we actually do this and do not play here infantile games in the adoption of various parts of the legislation, which is very necessary. When we look at spending so-called. Mandarin spending, so the truth is that the population is getting older, so the mandarin spending is going to go up. And it's not just pension expenses and their valorisation. The state must perform certain basic functions, and here a rooster was strangled, headed for police officers, firemen and teachers. They had to be added. There is a need to increase expenditure on the military, because in this context we are bound and criticized because we are participants in a number of international treaties. We can discuss whether the expenditure on state and public administration, which has increased across the board, is justified or not, but it is not really about quantity, but about the quality of the services that are provided. So far, in this context, we have done what we have done to adopt a service law that will provide concrete government and public administration, because it has abolished or de facto prevented open selection procedures that may be directed towards a new perspective and efficiency of administration. The Chamber of Deputies adopts a number of laws that have a significant impact on the state budget, because everything that is adopted here is somehow digitized. This means that they will appear in the great cost of transforming various information systems and eGovernment systems, which are then problematic and have, of course, a major impact not only on the state budget but also on the service that we provide to citizens in this way. We are burdened with other things that have been abolished by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has repealed discriminatory measures for flat-rate pensioners, and perhaps some adjustment will be made to the CFI in this area. All this, the state budget has to deal with that in some way. For me, the basic question is not what are the figures in the state budget, because there is always some wishlist, some projection, how it will be, but what I am interested in, and what we can be very actively involved in, and I would like to invite you to do so, colleagues and colleagues, is how money will be spent. Indeed, a whole range of legislative changes, but of quality, must be adopted very reasonably and very quickly. Not laws that complicate life not only for citizens - not only for executives, but also for citizens, and bring increased costs. This means, for me, the fundamental question of this budget is how the executives will deal with being properly and effectively spent. This is a matter on which the Chamber of Deputies should focus, and it is also its fundamental function. And to do so, we can do something very positive, not only negative in the area of criticism and crucifixion of individual ministers, which we are very often witnessing here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u11	I thank Mr Pilný. I now have two factual points - first Mr Miroslav Kalousek, after whom Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Pilný has, of course, opened up a very hot current question, the issue of investment efficiency. He was trying to suggest that, given that many of these investments were not effective in the past, there is a need to invest less. Even if that were the case - I don't think so, but let's admit now that it was - if it were, then the money would have been a lower deficit. But to say: we don't need to invest so much because it was little efficient, and that's why we'd rather spend it on the operating expenses of the state - colleagues, sorry, we're gonna eat - that's really, really not the right budgetary approach. There's a lot of limping in there, like the logic. If you had said, Mr President, those investments were not effective, and that is why we will invest less and that will be a lower deficit, it would have logic. But the investments weren't effective, and that's why we're going to eat more, there's no logic, it's more or less chucpe. That's the first point. Second point. You were the CEO of a pretty big firm. Imagine if you promised the board of directors a whole year that you would prepare a budget for next year that would save heavily on operating expenses and support investment, and then you would submit what Sobotka and Babiš are presenting to us, a budget that speeded up operating spending and reduced investment. We both know how you'd end up in front of that board of directors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u13	I thank Mr Kalousek. From another application for a factual remark, Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to say this through the President Mr Pilný. I hope I'm not in the category of infantiles who delay lawmaking here. And if so, I would still take the liberty of commenting on the effectiveness of science that has been said here for the second time in today's debate. I think that many things are true, and if we look at the effectiveness of other areas in our Republic, this country is, of course, lagging behind advanced countries. But it brings an eternal question - what was before, whether a hen or an egg. But I remember when President Václav Klaus once argued that teachers could not be added because they are not good, and because when they were added, their bad work habits would be preserved. And I think it's wrong that these things just work differently in society, that where money is put, that money attracts better people and attracts people who are able to perform better and increase efficiency. By the way, if you see these industrial investments again, Mr Pilný, through the President, as inefficient, I must say that investments in science that appear in medicine are very effective, often contribute to the development of world medicine, but certainly also to the Czech medicine. And the same can be said about a number of other fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u15	I thank Mr Heger. With another factual remark, Mr Karel Fiedler, followed by Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to Mr Pilný's words. Mr. Colleague, when I listened to your brief post, I would have dared to mention from him that we voted, or that you voted for the Civil Service Act, which could have been used in any year about ten years ago. That was always the same talk, so the budget doesn't change, even the rhetoric doesn't change. I've been listening, I'm saying, that could have been said at any time, any year back, except for one particular mention. Plus the numbers. I'm still waiting for someone to respond to them, that someone here will comment, that they will disprove my facts, which I have stated. Nothing. You can't defend your draft budget because you yourself can't defend it on the documents you're presenting and accompanying, because those figures you're presenting, they convince you that you're not telling the truth. You're voting for it with your hundred and eleventh, which is why you're sitting here so calm and listening to the rumors that they're telling us, but we're voting for it. You are voting for this, and I add only one thing to this: not that there will be a change in the concepts of the state budget, in the way our country will be indebted, there will be no change in the policy either, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u17	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another factual remark, Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u18	I only have a brief response to Mr Heger through the Vice-President. I didn't mean basic research, of course I was talking about applied research. I understand that in basic research, the horizon and the criteria that are set on it are completely different. As far as the notes on investment and numbers are concerned, the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, with the fact that it is conservative and the minimum is added, is complete nonsense because the money was a big problem to spend. So adding more - we can paint it there, but it's completely unnecessary because it's completely unrealistic. We must also respect reality. As for the so-called consumption, so it is forced both objectively, because the population is getting older. I already told you. And the mandatorial expenses are just going to increase, they're going to increase, and that's an objective fact. The subjective thing is that the state budget simply has to respond to the legacy of the past, when it has to deal with the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, when it has to deal with the fact that roosters have been tightened here, which go to the civil and public authorities, who have to provide basic services to the state. This is simply inevitable, and the budget must respect this very clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u19	I thank Mr Pilný. Once again, Mr Fiedler, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u20	Once again, I would like to respond to the rejection of the figures that I have given. I'd like the petitioners' representatives to speak to them and disprove the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u21	I thank Mr Fiedler. If the representatives of the petitioners are not to do so, we will proceed to the next debate. The next enrollment is Mrs Olga Havlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u22	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, on the state budget, it is absolutely essential for me whether it is able to reverse the adverse situation in the Moravian-Silesian region. Unfortunately, the answer is no. The first reason for this is the lack of investment, and in addition, they are really falling in time. This is absolutely unacceptable in a situation where the economy is growing again over a long period of time and in a situation where the state budget has a 100-billion-dollar deficit. It will always be about conflict of opinion, but if we are already spending, let the money go into our future, let it be invested, there are some major new motorways that are so important for the development of the regions, and new jobs are being created. That is the only way to justify high spending. That is the only way that such a deficit could mean a new impulse. I do not see a positive impulse in this budget, because the key indicators for the Moravian-Silesian regions are once again being smashed. The transport infrastructure fund is less than 7 billion compared to last year and stagnates money to eliminate the consequences of mining activity. I lack sufficient resources in the budget to combat high unemployment, whether it is to promote job creation or industrial zones. [[15.40 hours]] It should be noted that the state budget that we are approving here has the greatest influence on the situation in the less developed regions of all the laws that will pass here. It is therefore necessary to discuss, in particular, parameters such as investment and, in second reading, concrete measures that can help the region. People have been waiting for major improvements for years, and this budget is basically just another push-off. Moravian-Silesian County is back on track. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u23	Thank you, Mrs Havlová, for her contribution. Before I give the floor to Mr Kučer, who is another duly registered, I will also read the apologies. Today, at 16 o'clock, the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec apologizes, and from 17.15 he apologizes, Mr Podivínský. Please, Mr Kučera, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers have already drawn attention to incorrect revenue and expenditure, which is part of the draft budget of Minister Babiš for 2015. I would like to draw attention to one of the many revenues of the state budget, which is based on water, or rather on coal. The Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic incorporated in the draft state budget an increase in revenue to 580 million. CZK in the MIT chapter under heading 234 - revenue from the use of exclusive rights to natural resources, even though the draft amendment of the Mining Act has not yet been prepared, which supports the increase in the remuneration of the state budget. In the draft state budget, item 580 million represents a leap increase in revenue in this area to almost seven times as much as last year. Of course, this also corresponds to an increase in the costs of mining companies by this amount, which will ultimately be paid by the citizens. This strong intention also lacks an adequate assessment of macroeconomic impacts and effects. Without such analysis, the proposal cannot be accepted. Such an analysis or discussion has not yet taken place, and it is not officially known at this time, and certainly not approved by the draft amendment to the Mining Act, which would support the proposed draft Act on the State Budget for 2015. Even work on the assignment of a large RIA, which is absolutely necessary for the preparation of this legislative change, is not even begun yet. Your budget is built on these unnegotiated and unapproved revenues, Minister Babiš. I also take this increase in income from the remuneration for the unearned mineral as a message. Message not only for mining companies, but especially for municipalities, especially from the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region. In fact, if the payment for the harvested minerals is increased in the future, this amount must mainly be the income of the municipalities and regions concerned by the mining, not merely the income of the state budget. I must ask you, Minister Babiš, how do you use the 580 million you're increasing the state budget for? I do not see anywhere an expense of 580 million, which would increase aid to municipalities affected by mining. However, I see other expenses that you will have to cover, such as an increase in the green oil payment for Agrofert. Some might even say - green oil for Agrofert for the mining communities in the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u25	I thank Mr Kučer. With another proper application, Mr František Laudát is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. I might follow up on that. I certainly suppose some final speech by Minister Babiš, so what my previous speaker said here would be good to hear if the amount he wants to increase his mining fees is supported by some detailed analysis, because if, for example, in the Moravian-Silesian region, you just add to the misery that is taking place down there economically, another one, so it may be the last straw. Then you're gonna be pouring hundreds of millions on bailouts, keeping jobs and all that. I am not illusioned, I am not an expert in the detailed situation, the needs of investment in the Czech mining industry, but I hope you have an analysis behind this. If it's shot from the side, I warn you not to cause more damage than is absolutely necessary, whether it's the economy, the profits of the communities concerned, the ecology, etc. If my colleague Havlová here says that you are sending the Moravian-Silesian Region to a sidetrack with this budget, I completely agree with her. I would add: You are sending 14 regions of the Czech Republic to a secondary track. There's some kind of economic growth. You guys started handing out non-investmentally without any brakes in the future. You must know, Minister, that you are going to push the Republic back into a very unstable position. All it takes is an economic cooling down. There's a whole series of signals. I do not know where the economic potential for any greater growth in the countries of the European Union that are beginning to be a scarecrow of the world economy in their whole. And then there's the 2009 2010 situation again. Then I guess you start raising taxes and looting people's money wherever you can. As far as science is concerned, I completely agree with Mr Pilný, except that your votes coalition - and I think most of all the votes YES and social democracy here have approved changes concerning the single collection point, the third VAT rate and the abolition of the one rate already in force. And in that package, the taxation of investment funds, regulated funds, was also hidden. If you wanted to strike a blow to the future, you've managed perfectly. Of course, you have a chance at a reparatist if - if I am not mistaken - this legislative whip on Czech citizens and the upheaval of the future lies in the Senate, so you may be able to get it back to you, and where these tools of innovation are being abused, so that you can prevent it with minor modifications. But what you've done is truly controlled by the Czech Republic. Investment efficiency. The Air, Space and Innovation Sub-Committee has asked the Ministry of Industry and Trade to do some sort of assessment of the efficiency of investment. They promised it would be in January sometime. We have asked them to make the financial instruments for innovation competitive, which is also supposed to be around this horizon. Of course, the situation will change if you give it a say and put it back where it was, at least the taxation of five percent. What is a great picantry, that even as this government mocks Czech citizens, so the speculative investment means investing in various events, which I consider to be a measure of speculation, so, given the decaying Czech stock market, you are simply encouraging Czech citizens to spend their money on foreign exchanges and thus to drive foreign economies. I could quite imagine this instrument if you got the assignment to destroy the Czech economy in the future and starve it in capital. I think that the budget - as you can see, we don't agree on the numbers anymore, we probably don't agree on where the Vltava flows from, how we should behave in national parks, etc. I'm sorry, but I would hate to see another whip really come in the form of a cooling-down world economy, and you are returning this country to the same problems that occurred here after the 2008 world crisis and then the next cycle. Unfortunately, I am not so sure about indebted states in the vast extent of public economies in the countries of the European Union that this is not imminent every day. [[15.50 hours]] I'd be careful. You're driving the Republic back into a very dangerous, risky situation. You bought voters. Well, they voted for you, most of you, not all of them, but you bought them. The hangover then, the sobriety can be very quick and uncomfortable, even if no one wants it. If something was not taken over by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, it is simple. Eighty-six percent, I don't know, maybe today it's a percentage more or less, our gross domestic product is being exported. Fifty-six, or what it's like today, something like that, makes it a vehicle export. All it takes is for the market to cool down in this, there's a recession, and we're on our way. That GDP will fall and then your claim that relative debt will fall will no longer be true. It jumps jumping, GDP goes down, so the debt ratio just jumps up automatically, I think it lasted three or four months in that deep crisis, and it was on the table. That's going very fast. I don't know, I don't know. It's been going down a lot here, a little bit of a tranq atmosphere, but until people understand that they just have to invest in the future, that the state has to stake space and you have to create space, so that especially private companies can ingerate and capitalize science, commercialize... Instead, you're gonna have to worry about shutting down the centers of excellence because you're not gonna have the money for them anymore. You're probably gonna be ripping off venture capital funds that serve as innovative instruments, but you can't save the economy by state intervention. I'm saying, now it's a ride on a very wild horse, and I hope that horse calms down. We'll see in the next maybe 12 months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u27	I thank Mr Laudát. Although I would not like to try by voting, I assume that we still agree on where the Vltava flows from in this House. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. - Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, with a point of fact, I'm sorry, Mr. Pilný is registered, so his two minutes are due. After him, you're right. I'm sorry. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u28	I'll just be very brief. I don't understand how the taxation of investment funds is related to science and research. That's the first point. And second point. I would like to ask through Mr Laudát's Vice-President: If Czech citizens do not invest in companies listed on the Czech Stock Exchange but in foreign companies, which, with the exception of the majority owned CEZ, operates on the Czech Stock Exchange and where will the money spill? As far as I know, just read the list of titles, and I'd really like someone to find me a Czech company there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u29	I thank Mr Pilný. With a point of fact, I apologize, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. If you've had enough of me, then get your shit together and go make a living with something else. I'll explain. There aren't so many investment opportunities on the Czech Stock Exchange, so you're just looking for it, and today is not a problem. In the past period, a lady from the left was the most capable investor here, and she invested in the stock exchanges, as far as I know, somewhere in Asia. In Hong Kong or whatever, so it's not a problem. Of course, financial products are the key to developing ideas from science and technology here. That's why the huge complex legislation of investment regulated funds was adopted here. And, of course, there were wards, that's probably the package where there's speculation and hiding property and tax optimization today. The Deputy Minister is said to have a wealth of experience with this, and fast. However, these are the basic key instruments for development. It is not that you will pour several billions or tens, where smart officials, they certainly know and certainly have a great interest in moving Czech science. For God's sake, you, through Mr President, cannot remember, but it was an attempt to amend Law 130, which concerns science. And it ended with a fiasco because it was left to the liking of officials, and they flooded it with so many controversial comments - about 700 of them or what a competent representative from the Office of the Government told us, and it just went bankrupt. So this is a completely wrong road. It is simply always the private sector, not the enlightened civil servants, that is to make progress mostly. But most of all, we don't have the enlightened civil servants in our majority. [[Attention on time.]] So that's it. And Mr. Votav, if I answer in private.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, finally, Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you really have the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u32	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, but if anyone wants to, I'll still... I would also like to look at the budget through the optics of the Ministry of Justice as well as my participation in the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think that unfortunately we cannot be satisfied, especially in expenditure blocks, as regards the prison part of the budget of the Ministry of Justice. The figures in the budget and the outlook for the following years do not give a sufficient perspective, especially as regards expenditure on the Prison Service of the Czech Republic. The acute problem of Czech prisonry is not only low wages. They can hardly motivate them to perform properly. Typically a full example is the position of a guard who has recently joined. The prison service, like other security forces, had to face a fall in wages. The second no less serious problem is the increasing number of prisoners sentenced to prison as a result of the long-term unsolved high recurrence of perpetrators. This is mainly about property crime. This condition can lead to overcrowding of Czech prisons over the course of several years, which will prevent any conceptual changes in the area of prisons mainly due to high personnel overload of the Prison Service and also due to high economic costs. This relapse has several objectively documented causes - it is a high debt of perpetrators, unemployment, and long-term lack of work habits. It is also a lack of readiness to be released from prison and subsequent life at large. It is also necessary to strengthen, introduce new probation and resocialization programmes, such as probation houses. The budget should also respond to the issue of employment of sentenced persons in prison, as well as possible employment after dismissal. The draft budget and its prospects do not give much hope to find enough resources to address the problems mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u33	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. With another proper application, Mr David Kádner is prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u34	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. When discussing the state budget, I would like to draw attention to how some issues are dealt with very inconclusively and without a long-term perspective. An example of this is the budgetary expenditure on security, especially the police, both in the next year and in 2016 and 2017, where the outlook for the budget falls. We all know that security files took 10 percent of their salary in 2010. We all also know that it was with the government's commitment that the funds would be returned to them by 2014. That what was taken would come back. We still hear there's been an increase in salaries, and it's been repeated over and over again by both politicians and journalists. Yes, there has been an increase in salaries for all civil servants. For some even several times. That doesn't concern the security forces. Unfortunately, wages still haven't returned to their original level. In my opinion, they can only raise other salaries after we get back what we owe firefighters, policemen and others. [[16.00 hours]] I repeat, so far, only part of what was taken from them has returned to the security files. So far, two percent has been recovered, in large part, to non-interest-based salary components. From November onwards, this is a total increase of 3.5 percent to all employees and again to the non-interest component. In addition, an increase of 1,5 percent in the tariff tables was approved since January. To this end, it must be added that we have here since 2010 a significant rate of inflation, which devalues all these amounts. We're still moving 3 percent below where we were in 2010. For the biggest problem, however, I see that the reimbursement of the salaries of police officers is not taken into account in the outlook for budgets for the coming years. Unfortunately, it recognises that the resources for policemen are not included, and I consider that the biggest problem. Police expenses and the fire department are supposed to stagnate in the long term. The inflation that is about to occur will not be taken into account either. In this respect, I see the budget as inadequate. We think that we should all be aware that internal and external security should be a priority of a state that deserves a long-term, real and sustainable concept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u35	I thank Mr Kádner. With the last proper application, the rapporteur, Mr Václav Votava, has so far been registered. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I waited patiently for the end of the performers. I don't have anything to discuss. I would merely like to add a supplementary proposal to the resolution on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2015, for point 3 of the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, a new paragraph 4 is added: "Requests the Chapter Administrator to submit the draft chapter to the committee responsible, to which the proposal has been ordered for discussion both in writing and in electronic form." [[Chapter workbook]] I will. To date, the departments, as specified for example in the draft State Budget Act in Annex 4, submit proposals for their chapters to committees under the commandment only on the basis of the provisions of paragraph 4. 1 Section 103 of the Rules of Procedure Act, even in the implicit statement "the committees shall discuss the signed chapters of the State budget within the time limit set by the House and submit their resolutions to the Committee on Budgets'. In the Act on Budgetary Rules of the Republic no. 208/2000 Coll. the obligation of executive power is only mentioned in relation to the Government towards the House and the Act on the Budget as a whole. Nowhere is the relationship enshrined by the committee - the administrator of the chapter. The term of the chapter notebook is no longer defined at all. In view of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, it is recommended that the departments present the chapter notebooks for our purposes in written and electronic form to their committees in accordance with paragraph 3 of the proposed resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u37	Thank you. I take that as paragraph 4 of the resolution of the Committee on Budgets in press 331/1, which Members have received. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. There's no one like that around here. I therefore end the general debate and ask about the final words of the Minister of Finance, who unfortunately is not present. [[The Minister of Finance is coming to the ballroom.]] And he's already here. Please, Minister. There's a clear interest in the final word. Please, Minister, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u38	Mr President, thank you. The final word - it's actually hard to comment, because I feel like most of the performers haven't read the budget much. I would simply reiterate that we have built the budget on a lower deficit than planned. We built it so we wouldn't be in debt. Some people don't understand, but I've been trying to explain it here. We built it to launch investment and, of course, we built it on consumption. This debate is hard. Of course, the budget is evaluated by the macro. I think I am the first finance minister to take concrete steps to reduce the budget balance. I am the first minister to organise here the summit of the Ministers of Finance of Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia. And for the first time, we Čech in Europe have made some proposals to combat tax fraud, on which we have lost CZK 70 billion from 2009 to 2013. Carousel business. The liquor mafia took $6.7 billion from us. Mafia Ecoll Invest 4.5 billion. Non-functional financial management. Customs alike. I'm doing something specific. I proposed reverse charge at the Finance Ministers' meeting, which is an essential means of combating tax fraud. And wonder to the world, all the ministers of the surrounding countries, including the Romanian Minister, supported this. And now I'm waiting for Commissioner Moscovici to go into office and discuss it with him. We haven't had any suggestions in the past. In the past, we were in Europe together with the Great Britain and we dug it up. Those are specific things. And, of course, there are specific things about tax collection. Yes, we're saving up for traffic. I saved CZK 260 million in seven months at the Treasury. I look forward to showing you how I buy environmental contracts, unlike Mr. Kalousek, for half. Maybe someone will remember the big environmental contract that was being prepared. She was supposed to end up in someone's pockets, and now she's buying a good deal. For example, if we can do a $300 million contract, we can do 72. And to the Treasury, if it were operational and if we had all the state institutions in the Treasury, we could involve the 130 billion. I don't know why the SAO actually had a find to file a criminal complaint. I took over the resort, and I think I'm able to prove that I'm saving up for traffic. But we took over the deficit stuff, so I've got 600 new employees of the financial administration to engage. In the same way, Minister Marksová must take 600 employees to the employment offices because social housing benefits are being used in our country, in support of unemployment and so on. The state is not functional enough. We need to strengthen the police. Attorneys and judges must get higher salaries. These are all things that we need to fix, and of course it's not fair here to compare some investment plans that haven't been realized and haven't been drawn in the finals. We are taking concrete steps to actually reduce debt. I would also like to point out that I have expressed some opinion that it would be a good idea for us to implement these measures in 2017, and the question is whether the Chamber of Deputies will approve them, the electronic VAT statement, the electronic sales statement - these are all very specific measures that have not been proposed and implemented so far. I am actively doing this, and I think that the fact that employers, trade unions, actually most of the professional public, the Chamber of Commerce and so on, I think that the budget is good. It's the maximum possible we could have done. [[16.10 hours]] And for me, it's a ceiling. I fought for that ceiling within the coalition, and I think it's an option if we can put all the measures in place that the deficit will be lower and we will actually reduce the debt. By the end of 2015, GDP will fall, as the debt of the Czech Republic has fallen by 300 million this year, it will fall to 39.9 percent. So I think we're gonna be okay, but it's not enough. And it is important to state the state of the country 25 years after the revolution in terms of investment and the deficit of primary schools, kindergartens, sewage treatment plants, highways, rapid trains, etc. We are also trying to promote within the European Union, and for the first time there we are also saying something. I, too, performed in Luxembourg last week and suggested that Mr. Juncker say he wants 300 billion. EUR invest, joint investment, so I was the only minister who said a specific project there - the speed trains that end up in Frankfurt, and if they go to Berlin and Warsaw, they're going to take us. So I suggested to our neighbouring countries that we do the project Frankfurt, Prague, Warsaw, Vienna, Budapest, Bratislava. And some Member States like it. We don't just rely on the state budget, either. Today we are discussing specifically with the Asian investor the so much declared route of interconnection Kladno - airport - center of Prague. The Prime Minister of France will be here in December, so we'll be doing a seminar. We need to learn how they do it abroad. No one's ever done a PPP project here in their life. And there's a huge amount of space, because there's enough money in the world in funds in general, and the question is whether our country is able to attract investors and convince them to invest here and then negotiate a relationship with the state. We have no experience, no one here has done such a project. There was some comment about the incentives. Believe me, I took care of the incentives, and Minister Mládek got a lot of questions from me. I had Hyundai reckoned back in the Moravian-Silesian region, which you're talking about, that we have a budget that will damage it. That is, of course, nonsense. Hyundai also got an incentive, just like Nexen got it. And why didn't Nexen want to go to the Moravian-Silesian Region? Well, because there's not enough transport infrastructure. Who's going to invest in Bruntál or Ústí, Karlovy Vary, Sokolov, Cheb if we don't have a connection? Yes? So I demanded the data from Minister Mládek, and the investments were carefully calculated. And we know how it'll come back to us. It is not true that Nexen is to employ foreign workers. It's not true. So it would be good for us to keep an eye out for these things. I also asked why we were giving foreign investors so much money and how it would come back to us. There are calculations. I think CzechInvest is doing his job well. We were doing the math, and I was interested. Because, of course, there's the expense. And I'm watching it, too. Also, for the first time, someone started managing financial governance for the benefit of this country, not for their own benefit. So also today, the specialized financial department is asking because there were a lot of questions about dividends, about optimizing the tax base, and that's what we're dealing with today. So I think we're doing our best, and we just need to remember the state of the Treasury when I got there, it was. State printing works, Office for State representation in property matters, etc. If anyone's interested, I'd be happy to present in detail an analysis of how much I saved there, what everything was there and how it was. So once again, we're saving on the operating costs of the ministries, and, of course, if there's an investment deficit and an operating deficit, that's obviously a cost. So we're at the beginning of a trip and we're doing our best. And we're taking concrete steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u39	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek are also registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. [[A note from Minister Babiš off the microphone.]] I have priority rights, Minister, you know? So I'm sorry, but it's not possible to take advantage of priority rights to mystify and not let anyone with priority rights respond. So, Minister, no one can, of course, prevent or prohibit you, nor would it be appropriate for you to say anything about the budget that the government has put forward. Unfortunately, I would like to repeat, we will not vote on what you say. We'll vote on the data you submitted to us. And the data tells us something completely different than what you're telling us. You say you save on operating costs, and you increase operating costs by almost 18 billion. You say that the budget supports investment, and you propose investment spending far below everything that right-wing governments have not only planned in times of crisis, but what they actually invested. In fact, in every year, much more has been invested than you suggest. Of course, you can't have the resources to invest there, given that you've filled up and flooded the state's operating expenditure, so you don't have the money to invest. There's only one crown. Either we run it in government consumption or we invest it. We can't do both with her. You decided to eat the future. I'm quoting only your data now. The media, please, because I read again that these are numbers from Kalousek. No, no, that's Babiš's numbers. The numbers according to Kalousek would look completely different. According to Babiš, the figures say that we will not have an austerity budget, that we will have a budget that accelerates operating expenses and social benefits and reduces investment below all crisis years. That's just a fact, that's hard data from your own documents, Mr. Secretary. We'll vote on those. And we can't support that kind of data. No matter how different you say it is. But anyone who's willing to open the book can read the data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u41	Thank you to President Miroslav Kalousek. Another with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Dawn Dawn Club Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already signed up for the budget, so I would just respond to what has been said here. I didn't quite understand Minister Babiš, what he meant about the judges, virtually. This government, because I was struck by the connection - the courts aren't working, so we're going to add salaries to make it work. Well, I'm surprised because I don't think so. I know it's not from the Minister of Finance's head that it's a chapter from someone else, but I do not agree with that, in principle, that the increase in salaries is the only instrument, obviously the only one, because nothing else has been put forward here by this government about judicial reform or anything is going to happen. I don't think that would be the solution to raise salaries. This will not speed up the courts or improve the quality. The truth is that this is an area with which citizens are very unhappy. But he would have solved it, for example. proposal of Dawn for judges to have e.g. a limited mandate for five years, as is the case in many democratic countries. To have a direct responsibility, to have to file accounts and not to be irrevocable until death. That's what I think would be the right solution. And, of course, salaries won't solve that. [[16.20 hours]] As for Nexen's investment, I don't know if we all listened here because I was talking about something else. I'd say that again. I was bumping into it, and I was saying that investment incentives are being given here in hundreds of millions of companies that are not subject to the condition of employing Czech citizens. Here the government was ceremonially presented in the media, as South Korean Nexen attracted himself, but when I looked, and I repeat it again, into the government's contract with the company, it is not conditional on creating jobs by employing Czech citizens. It says the citizens of the European Union. That's why Rumun, Bulhar and others will be there again. They will cut wages and pay the entire region. That was the question of why there is no condition that we need to employ our money, for taxpayers' money, for investment incentives for Czech citizens. Why will foreigners be employed there at the expense of our people when we have a unemployment rate of 600 thousand. People. And one last thing. Mr Pilný - I did not understand that at all. On the one hand, the government is telling us that there is a high deficit, or the deficit is here, among other things, because of investment in transport infrastructure, and on the other hand, Mr Pilnýý here has told us that it is nonsense to invest in transport infrastructure when it is not ready. Now I don't understand. The chairman of the House's Economic Committee for Government says something other than the government. I've completely lost track of that. So it's obvious that there's a lot of confusion in this, and the government should make it clear which one of them is right, but they're both quite high-ranking representatives of this government, or both sides, and the public should certainly get the right information, or please make a deal first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u43	Thank you, Mr Okamur. The President of the Civic Democratic Party Citizen's Club Zbyněk Stanjura is next with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. The minister had the final word, but one assumes that in the final word someone responds to what will be said in the debate - questions, comments, criticism, praise. That might as well have been the opening word, and that might as well have been a speech at the election meeting. However, in order not to criticize, I really would like to commend the Minister. Remember when we were discussing the 2014 budget, as he quite proudly said: I didn't read it, I won't read it. He's obviously read it this year, at least from the show it's obvious. It's a big shift. On the other hand, other Members deny the same right they exercised last year and say: some of the speakers obviously did not read the budget. But they actually applied the same procedure as the Minister for the 2014 budget. This is certainly an improvement, and I believe that in the next budget, the Minister will answer our questions, such as why there is forecasting essentially zero revenue from tax revenues against the reality of 2014. I think that's a fair question. It's not a criticism. I didn't get an answer. I took the Ministry of Finance's number in the first nine months, like VAT or corporate tax, compared it to the plan for 2015 and the realization is basically a zero increase against the reality of 2014. And I think that's a fair question. This is not even a criticism because we do not know what this is based on when the forecast for GDP growth is plus 2.5 percent. The investment debate. From what I've heard all day today - a representative of the government coalition tells us that 75 is over 100, and they're still voting for it. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] There's nothing we can do about it. If you vote that 75 is over 100, there is nothing you can do but respect the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u45	Thank you to President Stanjur. The Minister of Finance obviously wants to answer his call. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I forgot the most important thing. It has been said here more than once that we are the left-wing government. We're not the left-wing government. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] I am so glad that, thanks to the YES movement, you learned to make parliamentary campaigns in the elections, that you all copied us, you had the same posters, and you were handing out not doughnuts, but something, so the movement here at least introduced some names that all political commentators and those who are the only ones who are right use. Yes, it'll be better. I never said when. It'll get better. Let's go. Let's just do it. [[Cheer and applause in the right side of the hall.]] The last expression I'm glad you learned that I'm a right-winger with a social feeling. I have a foundation that gives tens of millions of people and helps poor people. It is interesting when I went to campaigns in the areas of Ústí, Cheb, Bruntál, it is a different world than Prague, there people came and were interested. And that's where people get sick. That's why I'm right-wing with a social feeling. And we're not left-wing government. I fought for the deficit within our government because, of course, the Minister is fighting against everyone. And it's not true that we're not going to collect more taxes. We will. It's about 13 billion. I read it. I don't know where Mr. Stanjura got it. We'll collect more taxes. Yes, I'm conservative. Why wouldn't I be? If there's a better choice, there'll be a lower deficit. We right-wingers, I with a social feeling, want to reduce the deficit. [[Jolly on the right]] We want a structural deficit, as we are still trained by the Minister. That's actually what we have in common. Take it easy. If we pick more, we'll lower it. That is my goal - to reduce debt. Because I came from another world. I came from a world where no deficit is planned, where no loss is planned. Believe me, I've encoded it like you have encrypted other things I'll never learn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u47	I thank the Minister of Finance, who admitted to coming from another world. It also opened up a debate in which the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek first report with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u48	Yeah, I don't want to hold up too much myself. I just volunteered because I didn't want to have a conceptual dispute about the difference between right-wing and social feeling and populist oligarch, so I wanted to warn the Minister that he opened the debate, and it seems to me that the atmosphere is very appropriate for us to continue the debate freshly, because nothing is as important as the draft state budget for next year. [[cheerfulness in the right side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u49	Thank you. Minister, your turn will come soon, but first I have three factual points, then one priority right, and you're next. First of all, Mr Karel Fiedler, Mr Petr Fiala, followed by Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for opening the debate, because I would really like to respond to Mr Vice Prime Minister's final words. I really thought we'd hear the answer to specific questions, to specific numbers. I guess that was naivety on my part, so I'm sorry. Maybe next time. I would like to respond to the words of my colleague Pilný. We talked about it, but I'd like to hear it in plenary. I have given the figures here regarding the planned expenditures of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, and Mr Pilný replied that there is no point in making investments when they are not ready to do this, that is nonsense. Yes, I agree, my colleague, by means of the President, of course. But where I'm already missing logic is that you explain the state budget deficit by increasing expenditure on transport infrastructure, and you say you're not going to increase it. So, gentlemen, for God's sake, talk to each other! Are you kidding us? I've got almost a minute left, so I'm going to repeat the numbers I've already given here. I would point out that this is a government document. The government assumes that in 2015 the total debt of the State will be 1 beat. 683 billion. - same as in 2013. Yes, that's the same digit. One more time. In 2016, the projected outlook was 1 bil. 783.7 billion. And in 2017, the projected outlook was 1 bel. 879.5 billion. So where's the government's debt reduction?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u51	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another factual remark, Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u52	Mr President, I wanted to say to the Minister of Finance that, for example, in Portugal, the right-wing party is called Social Democrats, simply for various historical reasons, and the left-wing party is socialists and that it simply doesn't matter what you say or what your name is, but you are right-wing when you are doing a right-wing policy that has certain characteristics. You signed up here to be a right-winger with a social feeling. I will take this hypothesis seriously, but then there are only two options, because the budget is typically left-wing. And then there are only two options: either you have fatally lost as a right-winger in this government and you have allowed a budget to be drawn up which is left-wing, or, to that end, I would lean on me, you are no right-winger, you are using it only within your populist political propaganda, and you are a normal left-wing populist who has joined the ideas of social democracy as to what the budget should look like. On this budget, and I have shown convincingly here, there is absolutely nothing right-wing: it increases the deficit in the time of the boom, distributes, increases normal operating expenditure on offices, subsidizes certain things, does not save, it is not a budget that has parameters of the right-wing budget. Many of us have told you. So you can say here a thousand times that you're right-wing with social feelings, but none of us understand why you're putting left-wing budgets, you're in left-wing government, and you're taking one left-wing measures after another!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u53	Thank you to Chairman Fial. With another point of fact, Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Pilný, Mr Volný after Mr Vojtěch Filip, followed by Mr Vojtěch Filip. Real points come first, Minister. If you want a factual remark, it's possible. Priority law after factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u54	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I want to lighten the atmosphere in the hall by saying that we will soon celebrate the first anniversary of an important event together, and this is the first anniversary since Minister Babiš lectures in this House consistently, repeatedly and constantly one and the same speech. [[Laughter from the right.]] The speech has about five thoughts, we all remember them very well: "it's a tie" carousel, the financial administration, the environmental contract. I'm a conservative person, and when I get used to something, I'd like to hear it all the time. Well, it hasn't been there Šnábl, and I'd really like to try, 'cause every song's gonna play once we celebrate the first anniversary, so maybe try another song. [[Laughing and applause from the right]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u55	I thank Mr Novotný. With another factual remark, Mr Pilný, President of the Economic Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u56	I hope that this is my last speech to the budget, at least at first reading, but to Mr Fiedler through the Vice-President, I would like to say that if he finds the word deficit in my copy, because he claimed that I justified the state budget deficit by increasing the transport budget of the SFDI, so if he finds the word deficit there, I would be happy to reward him with a bottle of good red wine, because that word is simply not there at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u57	Thank you, Mr Volný. Please just consume the red wine outside the Chamber of Deputies. Excuse me, Congressman Pilný. [[Fun.]] With another factual remark, Mr Volný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to say to my colleague, Mr. Fial, that the confusion in my head has basically made him who is the right and the left, because if the previous government, the so-called right, has raised taxes, it is also a pretty big contradiction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u59	Thank you, Mr Volný. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I think the mess in the head that some here are showing is huge. It is not at all that the left-wing budget should be the one put forward by this government. Whoever listened, and if we listened to each other, Jiří Dolejš here has made clear what we would lack as an authentic left to support the budget. This means ensuring the right to the development of all citizens, and that is not addressed, even the budget admits it. And the right-wing budget that was here, strangling the economy, which ended with the total collapse of right-wing policy in the 2013 elections, we really don't want it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u61	I thank Mr Filip. Mr Fiedler has the last point of fact before the priority rights. Sorry, there'll be more factual points. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. IPilný really sorry I can't get that bottle. I know you didn't say that. I'm not even saying it. I'm just saying that you said that increasing investment in transport infrastructure doesn't make sense unless they're ready. I think we agree on that. And I add to that, B, that another part of your government coalition, or the Ministry of Finance, which is presenting the state budget, claims that a deficit of 100 billion. is because you increase expenditure in transport infrastructure. I'm not saying you said it. I'm saying that's what you say as a coalition. And you said yourself, you yourself admitted that you didn't raise them. And that is why I say that you agree to say: yes, we have a deficit of 100 billion, we have it because we want to simply pass through, and don't say that you are investing in transport infrastructure, through Mr President, when you yourself, my colleague, said that you will not simply increase investment in transport infrastructure because they are not ready. You're really contradicting each other here! Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u63	I thank Mr Fiedler. And now, Mr Foldyna, after him, Mr Kořenek, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. I'm far from defending Mr. Babiš here. He's such a capable speaker that he'll probably defend himself, but I'm missing the discussion. The right here is rebelling over the budget deficit - I think 25 years since November 1989 we have something to brag about. Last week, the statistical office says we have 1.5 miles. people on the poverty line. Ladies and gentlemen, is that the big number we want to brag about? The poverty line is those people whose income is less than 9,600. Is that what we want to brag about? Since 2006, you've been able to do what you can here, and you haven't done anything! So what budget? What kind of government are you tearing apart now? What did you do? I've got people on Facebook saying, "What you're handing out, they've robbed." So what's better for the country? Please don't talk for a second!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u65	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. With another factual remark, Mr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u66	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'll try to be brief. I'll only read you two quotes. One is: we will not stop approaching them at the level of our economy. There's no crisis, there's still a lot of profitable opportunities. The Czech banking sector is healthy and safe. From this point of view, I blame some of the creators of catastrophic scenarios for haunting people. I cannot believe that someone who has neglected fiscal consolidation for years is now embarking on a scenario they call saving the Czech economy. Then there's the question. Wait, don't use the expression of recession. The recession is a decline in economic growth. No one expects that, and there's no such thing. Growth just won't be six percent, it'll be lower. The recession is minus, and we expect a plus, and it's quite high. I'm reading it here to make it clear who's a better economist, who's more right. Those words were said by colleague Kalousek in the position of minister. It's a report from the press department issued by 4. 10. 2008. As we all know for sure, there was no crisis. On the contrary, 26. 5. 2014 in an interview by my colleague Kalousek - I do not address it, but if it is through the President - my headline: The crisis has recorded to the populists, the next time it will be better. Well, I don't know when the crisis was in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u67	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, now with priority rights, followed by Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u68	So before I go back to the total amount of tax revenue, I have no confusion in my head about who is left and right. I'm perfectly clear on that. You're the one who's confusing the public! But it amazes me how the Social Democrats are silent about the fact that we don't have left-wing government. I've seen the last six weeks on billboards - social democracy, we're changing the country, the cities, the communities, for the better in the left-wing government, aren't we? And there's always an argument - we don't do it like the right-wing governments. And today, your Deputy Prime Minister says it's not the left-wing government. Well, I don't know if you're okay with that, then we'll end up like Portugal, that social democracy is the right-wing party. I really don't think so, and I'm not gonna push it. The fact that there are still communists on the left of the government does not surprise me, and I also agree that we should form a concept in the individual, as far as the extreme left is. [[unintelligible]] And we didn't say it was an extreme left-wing government. We say it's the left-wing government. But back to the numbers. I was talking about the implementation of the budget for nine months, some estimate of how tax revenues for 2014 will be filled and I claim that they will be very similar, if not higher than the plan for 2015. And I asked why the plan was so little ambitious. Because if you look at those numbers in nine months, it's almost 13 billion against the plan. taller than Rusnokův's government planned. Minister Babiš is right that, on paper, if you look at the table in the state budget report, the plan for the year 2014 is really about 13 billion. taller. But I was talking about something else. Just as we can't answer when I ask if you've taken into account the reality, you're also saying: we're so good that there's higher tax revenues, and that's why the deficit is going to be lower, it's not going to be 112 billion, but it might be 80, maybe 85. Those are the words of the Minister of Finance, not the words of the opposition. Among other things, it is because in the approved budget of 2014, for which we did not vote in contrast to you, tax revenues are lower than the real reality. The question is still the same: why are the revenues for 2015 not increased against the reality of 2014? The answer is simple - it's political reasons to say about a year from now, look, it's not 100 billion, we're saving. But it saves us taxpayers to pay more taxes. It's not an investigation. If it is at least as the finance minister says that if more money is collected, it will be a lower deficit, so it is fine, but maybe - there are no elections next year - so maybe it won't be added before Christmas, etc., as was done this year. But I'm afraid if there are higher tax revenues, there will be higher spending. And the minister here depicted the annual struggle of the evil finance minister throwing away those ministers who want more and more for their chapter. I agree that this is annual colorism, no matter what the government is. But this year was a big change. For the first time this year, every minister who left Letenske was there, and he said, "I'm very happy, the finance minister gave me everything I wanted." At the same time, the Minister of Finance says: I fought against those ministers and did not give them what they wanted. I don't know what the truth is. Did the ministers get everything they wanted, or did the finance minister defend the deficit against those spending ministers? I just don't know. I think they're paying for A, those ministers were very satisfied and they got what they wanted, and that's why the deficit is 100 billion, and not 80, respectively. 84, to be fair, because that was when the media calculated and calculated, and Minister Babiš handed out 16 billion in those negotiations. So 100 minus 16 is 84. So if he really resisted the pressure of his colleagues in the government, the deficit proposed wouldn't be 100, but 84.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u69	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, Minister Andrej Babiš, followed by Mr Bendl and Mr Černoch with proper application. Please, Minister, you have the floor. - Excuse me, Minister, I am so sorry, with a point of fact, first the President of the KSČM. I'm sorry, he's so stealthy, I didn't notice him, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry for the inconspicuousness, but it's us being so modest. [[Fun in the hall.]] I would like to respond by your means, Mr President, to Mr Stanjura, who called us the extreme left. In the sense that everything that is from center to left sees the right side as extreme, it might be agreeable, but the word extreme has a bit of a pejorative touch in the Czech boiler, the various services in the fight against extremism and so on. I would like to ask that this word should not be used in connection with the KSČM, because we do not really feel extreme. What is extreme about the fact that when we talk about development, we want that development also concerns those who are around and below the poverty line? What's extreme about wanting all citizens to have the same rights? What is extreme about wanting the 21st century in the center of Europe, the cradles of this civilization, not to be poor, or at least extremely poor? We feel authentic left, real. It is precisely because what I am talking about is not guaranteed in this budget that we will not support it. There's nothing extreme about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u71	Thank you, Prime Minister. With a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u72	I would have spoken to President Kováčik for some relief. Now that the populist oligarchs here call themselves right-wings with social feelings, maybe instead of the extreme left and left, we could start calling ourselves communists and neocommunists. That wouldn't be insulting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u73	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another factual remark, Mr President of the ANO Member's membership club, Mr Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u74	I am very sorry to you all, you know that I speak in this respectable House very sporadically. Friends, do you know what's terribly good? That normal people out here aren't interested in ours, your empty political floscule. That's very good. Let us keep them in this greenhouse, let us debate here in these empty political floscules, but those normal people, President Fiala through the President, are interested in good or bad solutions, and not if it is right, left, medium, rear, upper, lower. Those people are sick of it. Try asking those people on the street, your five percent of the voters. Try asking them what they're interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u75	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u76	Well, I would like to tell President Faltýnek that I am extremely pleased that he listens to me thoroughly, but I think your chairman is sorry that you are not listening to him. It wasn't me who raised this debate here that I don't even care about. It was your President who started to present us with another election speech - I don't know why, but I can imagine - where he was just using all that talk about how he helped people, how right-winger is with social feelings and all that kind of phrase. I have spoken here with a very thorough explanation of why this budget is wrong, on specific figures, on specific matters I have shown it to you. You raised this debate, so don't be surprised that we're reacting to it in some way. And listen not only to me, do it always, but listen to your chairman sometimes when he talks in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u77	I thank Mr Fial. Now I see no factual point, so now with priority rights, Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, for real now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think I've raised any debate. I have informed here what I am doing specifically as Minister of Finance, concrete steps to ensure that we have a low deficit. And of course I responded to the fact that we are not left-wing government, and I also did not say that we are right-wing government. Well, I'm learning, so I checked. Right-wingers, as far as I know, don't want to raise taxes, do they? The YES movement has fulfilled its basic promise in this country that we have not increased taxes, we are even reducing them. We reduce VAT on drugs, books and child food to 10 percent. So I don't know if you're really the right when you increased our VAT from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. I also come up with a Croatian sales record project where we will actually propose that VAT in restaurants be reduced from 21 percent to 15 percent. So I don't think the left is suggesting tax cuts, so in this respect, I think we're doing some kind of policy. And I don't even think that if the left side is, at least I don't know, I guess that's it. So much for the right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u79	I'm sorry, Minister. I beg the Honourable House to remain calm and listen to the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u80	About debt 2016, I think we're dealing with budget 2015. And the debt of 2016 is actually planned permanently and we will certainly do everything we can to keep the debt from increasing. About transport infrastructure, we've increased by 20 billion again. The budget and we are taking concrete steps to prevent highways from being built here in 16 years from the beginning, but in half, and that's why we made the land purchase law, and that's why we're losing the Line Construction Act. We are, of course, in a coalition government, so if citizens have decided that we should be in a coalition with the parties we are with, then, of course, compromises must be made. From that point of view, I think it's okay. And about the oligarch - I've been briefing on the oligarchs. I also read an interview by the philosopher Mr. Bělohradský, who says that Oligarch is doing everything in his power. And Aristoteles actually said politicians are elites of the nation. And Mr. Bělohradský in that interview says I have a chance, because now I'm doing everything for this state and for people, going from this oligarchy to that elite like you. Then wish me luck and hope I can do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u81	Thank you to the Minister, whom of course we have our fingers crossed. Mr Bendl, Mr Černoch, and Mr Laudát, are now duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm very interested in hearing this second round of debate, and I love it. I was one of those who said he wasn't surprised by the fact that the left-wing budget was being presented, because in the past, when the economy of the Czech Republic was growing, instead of saving up for future times and worse, we spent as much as we could. Even this is an example of the budget presented, we spend an unprecedented amount. We have the highest mandatory expenses in the history of the Czech Republic. That, I will say, is the particular business card of this government with left-wing steps that have been announced by left-wing political parties. For example, they said: we want to cancel health fees. They promised voters, and they said: we will ensure equality for everyone. I, as a right-winger, would prefer that health fees not to be interrupted, and the money that the finance minister and the government have sealed that hole after missing fees, I would rather put on the treatment of severe diseases and things that I say bring life, because the healing of the population and such cancer and everything else is just getting more and more expensive, to put it simply. So rather than cancel the fees, I'd really rather put the money that fell into the state budget on a treatment that's more expensive. Just like the step we've been discussing here, green oil. But before that, we voted that we would try, or that we all want together, and even for that, at one point, the majority in the Chamber of Deputies was that we wanted cheaper diesel for everyone. And we agreed here in the Chamber of Deputies that we would reduce the tax burden on oil for everyone, but then the right-wing finance minister changed his mind and said: I want green oil only for my farmers, for big factories and big companies, and not for everyone. Well, typically a real right-wing decision. And the last, just hiring officials, I'm sorry, it's never been, and it won't be, a system of right-wing problem solving. After all, in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, you can see that the steps taken by the former right-wing governments here today are yours today, and you can brag about the fact that there are hundreds of jobs in the Ministry of Agriculture, so you can put money where you see priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u83	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, with Mr Opálka's point of fact, after whom Mr Laudát. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Bendl spoke as a right-wing politician. I must tell you that, as a leftist politician, I wish that the mandatorial social welfare expenses were minimal, so that people would have jobs and jobs paid for, so that we would not have to pay them unemployment benefits, state social support, because they have low incomes, etc. etc. That's the way to save mandatorial expenses and state budget spending. Just those oligarchs will have to pay more wages, not make their profits into much bigger and larger units and then give up their wages for the benefit of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u85	I thank Mr Opálek. Mr Laudát is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. When my colleague Novotný from the ODS spoke here, I remembered. Guys, the minister obviously had to read from Ryan how I won the war, because there you know that the episode with the old general who asked me about anything always ended and taught anything and always ended up with his favorite Afghánec, and the main character of the whole novel, Sergeant Goodbody, then uses it, and when Greek communists were rubbing on him with such little things as how it would work out there, what kind of autonomy it always ended up massaging them in the rules of cricket. Instead of cricket, we've got carousels, and just to keep the bad guys out of it, but all of these carousels didn't turn the Minister's head, I don't mean just the bad guys. And he forgot the Šnábla, here I hear. Well, it would be funny if it wasn't too serious. To the address of Mr Foldyna, I must say through Mr President: Do you shine when regions with high unemployment do not have transport infrastructure, because the government, not even the infamous Bárta, who came here with his superconception, which was then renamed anti-, so please, you do not know what they approved or what Prachař put in the government with R 7 and others? But, of course, where does the seven lead? To Mostsko and all that. That in addition to finishing and perhaps finishing, where there is complete chaos, the minister says that as life is in Jesenick, but Mr. Prachař does everything to keep the 35 away from the position of dreams, extraterrestrial dreams, I like to use extraterrestrials, too. To Mr. Kořenek. I remember that time. And that's what I've been warning here that you're putting the Republic in a risky position. I hope that this will not happen, it is enough to cool the world economy, and this budget of yours will contribute to a great hangover in this company, and hangover very dangerous, because the two cycles of crises, rainbows and before mortgage, or as it is called, and the third in a short sequence would be very dangerous not only for our country, but for all the countries of the European Union that are indebted to each other, the United States too. You know, no prime minister, no minister in the world, if he's not crazy, and when the news changed every day then, it's not gonna be a disaster, it's just to make people run on banks, for God's sake, and of course, unlike Western banks, our banks are healthy, they don't have that kind of problems. [[17,00 hours]] I hope they will pass stress tests that should be considerably stricter than they have been up to now. That's what's happening. The Minister can't tell that to spread panic. I would understand in this, if Mr. Babiš says so on any occasion. He should be responding to dangerous signals by now, and be more careful with the budget. But you guys threw yourself at it to give it away, to buy voters. They forget very quickly, they forget. If you're talking about poor people or people in the poverty zone, then why didn't you take selectively, what the right-wing government did here once before, the poorest, and you pulled the pensions flat out, so the poor will have less, and you'll open the scissors again because it was a ratio addition. It was flat, it wasn't selective for you to drag people below the poverty line. When I said that on the Committee on Budgets, Deputy Minister Šimerka responded to the Members' raised eyebrows that it was a legitimate view, but that no one really even thought about it in the discussions. I mean coalition discussions. You guys were arguing about it. That's another thing. Please, there will be a lot more people in the poverty zone after you in the finals because you're destroying and suppressing investment. And if you are here to say that 70 is more than 100, then there is also a legitimate view that the Vltava flows from Prague to Sumava to Krumlov. That's a legitimate opinion. I think Mr. Gazdík is unlucky. The Ministry of Transport, it is probably the first Minister of Transport, because really transport infrastructure is important. She doesn't cheat as much as anyone thinks. These pro-growth impulses are statistically, across the board, and that doesn't mean that if someone builds a third highway to Ostrava, that suddenly there will be an economic boom, that's not true. Statistically, yes, the boom can come in many and many years. What's worse, you're stressing the personal initiative, the pressure on quality with this legislation, and you're proving it absolutely incredible in the budget. I must take a hard look so that whoever sits in this coalition and in this government fools the Czech public by being right-wing. Right-wing policy is about investing, creating values, not eating the future and pushing countries into gambling. That's either populism or left-wing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u87	I thank Mr Laudát. As a graduate geography teacher, I promise to the House that I will educate the Member from where Vltava flows. Now, with a point of fact, first Mr Kováčik, after whom Mr Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u88	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Mrs and gentlemen, there has been quite a comprehensive training on the right and the left. It is not true, by your means, to my colleague Laudát, that the left is not about investing. Maybe it's just the opposite. It's just a question of what it's invested in and how it thinks about the future, and there I think the left has the upper hand after all. But let us end these unnecessary trainings, because we are discussing the state budget for next year, and I think that this is quite serious, for what I would say, the most serious topic of the year, and I would almost say, we have some proposals that need to be voted on. Let's focus on the vote. Perhaps just a final dot, at least an attempt at it. Despite all the efforts to muffle, obscure, cover the border between the right and the left or the existence of the right and the left by action, according to practical steps, after all, the truth will always come out as water oil, that the right and the left exist, so we have a right here, we have a left here, and in the history of the Czech Republic they are still adding to this, gentlemen pardon, folks, by action, by action, by step, they are always where it rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u89	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Now, Mr Zavadil with a factual point, followed by Mr Novotný with a factual point, followed by Mr Seďa with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I hardly know what I am anymore, whether I'm left-wing or right-wing, but that's not why I came here. We've all forgotten one important factor here, and they're citizens and voters. That didn't happen here. And I have to say that when I recapitulate how elections fell to Parliament, where voters, not looking at whether you were right or left, simply sentenced to trenches, not to look at whether you were right or left, a political party in Senate elections sent somewhere else, not to look at whether we were right or left, the public made it clear in municipal elections that it was giving votes to those who thought they were managing the Republic well, whether you like it or not. And I don't care if it's the right or the left. Please don't forget this. Sometimes when I hear some prognosis, I get chills when I hear voices again from the unnamed political party: next time we win. I'm happy for everyone to win this thing. But I'd just like to, because I remember, and I remember a lot now, even if not quite a direct participant in these conversations and these bragging words, Goebbels also said they would win it. They said that right before they lost. So, please, let's be solid to each other, let's not look to each other in the right hand and the left hand of our enemies, but let's try to treat each other like this on the basis of things that are really going to happen for the citizens of this republic. And I don't care if it's the right or the left. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u91	Thank you, Mr Zavadil. Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Antonín Sedya, is now making a point of fact, followed by Mr Martin Novotný and Mr Antonín Seďa, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u92	Good afternoon again. A moment ago, the names of Václav Bělohradský and the name of the great Greek philosopher Aristotel were mentioned here in the performance. He is the author of the famous paper on the policy in which he occurs among others. a fundamental distinction between politician and demagogist. Politics considers it to be the bearer of one of the highest art in human society at all and governance as truly the most dignified activity. But they are demagogizing against this. And there is one modern, far later definition of demagogy that says that demagogy is a person who consciously tells things that aren't true, and addresses them to those they think are fools. Today, we have heard a number of sentences about the state budget in government speeches that are clearly not true. I think we've proven it here with a pretty explicit argument. And I believe, in the horizon of the year and two, that the calculation that people who listen to it believe, because they're fools, turns out to be deeply untrue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u93	I thank Mr Novotný. Mr Antonín Seďa, now with a point of fact, followed by Mr Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, just two comments on the team's political training that took place here. You know, I'm from Uherský Hradiště. For eight years there was a so-called rule. Right-wing coalition. Hradiště is the tenth most indebted city in the Czech Republic. Second thing. I have been a member of social democracy since November 1989 and I am proud to be a member of this perfect left-wing party. This government was created on the basis of public confidence in elections. And let's look at the programming statement. It shall be governed by a programming declaration which shall consist of the penetration of the three coalition parties' programme. And I am proud that we, the Social Democrats, have 70 percent of this electoral program in this government's programming statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u95	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, now with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u96	Thank you for the floor. I will be very brief, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to draw attention to one more historical precedent that we are experiencing today. I am aware with a bit of bitterness, given my age, that it is already the 25th draft of the Government Act on the State Budget, in which, one way or another, as an official, as a politician, I participate, whether in its processing, enforcement or opponentship. In those 25 years, this is the first time the Prime Minister has not stepped up to the Government Bill on the State Budget. I really don't know what to think. It's weird.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u97	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Stanjura, after which Mr Svoboda with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u98	I'll be very short. When someone like Mr. Seďa is dragging his hometown, he forgot to say "B" that the mayor and his team won the election this year, even though he was just as naughty about how they did it in their town. I think besides the information that they ran it for eight years, it should be said that they won the election this year. So the voters appreciated the way your town was running, and so I greet the mayor and vice-mayor from this position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u99	I thank Mr Stanjur. With a factual remark, Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good day. I'm totally impressed to hear the whole discussion here and learn that we're in a greenhouse, people aren't seeing us. I will also learn that we are the elite, the elite of the nation. But my question is simple. We may be in the greenhouse, but unfortunately, people are listening to us from the greenhouse. And what they want to know is whether we're really capable of working. Discussions, disputations in scientific teams are that someone asks a question, presents a problem, and the other one has to answer it. And here I witness the opposition asking a question, but they won't get an answer. And that's why we're in the greenhouse, because the people who listen to it suddenly see that we're talking to each other for nothing, that the whole discussion is completely useless. Questions aren't answered, and when they answer with something other than what doesn't belong to it. Then there will be a discussion about what the right is, what the left is, which everyone can read in the textbook. But we're not really discussing why the budget is good or bad at all. I would ask very much that when someone asks a question, they get an answer to it and that answer to satisfy it. Either he can agree with her or he can't, but the answer has to be. No Member, no Minister can avoid answering the question he is asked. And that's what we do all day today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u101	I thank Mr Svoboda. With another factual remark, Mr Igor Nykl, who is so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u102	Good afternoon, I would like - I am glad that Mr Kalousek is here, that he has not left - I would like to warn him that I am reading on the Internet right now that Prague's TOP 09 is rushing into suicide, into destruction. And I'm fascinated by the fact that we've been listening all day to training from the parties that are coming to the end of history, I dare say so. [[Unconscionable noise from the right side of the courtroom.]] Basically, they lack one word - they do not use the word of humility. I have nothing against opinions, but the word humility is on the sides that have had the opportunity to be here for quite a long time, so I think it belongs in the dictionary and that it would be better. I think you should give us some time, some time, and then he'll show up. And as I'm saying, reading about the TOP 09 suicide, I'd rather run to save the party and not solve the other problems here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u103	I thank Mr Nykl. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek, after whom Mr Černoch, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u104	Just a friendly advice to Mr Nykl through Mr President. You can't believe everything you read on the Internet, Mr. Ambassador, you wouldn't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u105	There. With another factual remark, Mr Černoch, after whom Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u106	Thank you. Good evening again, Mr. Vice-President. I think it wasn't entirely fair, and they're completely unnecessary invectors. There's a budget going on here, and it's going somewhere else, the whole debate and the debate are going into completely different dimensions. If I may in your voice - through, thank you, Mr President, through you - I am already an older master, so I apologize to my colleague, Mr Foldyn. With all due respect, I respect you. You said a million and a half people at poverty level, it's a horrible number. The million people who are crushed by executors, many others and others, contribute to all of this. Recently, the media was full of articles about joining state officials, meant firefighters, police officers. It didn't join them, it matched them, and it hasn't completely matched them yet. The pensioners were added CZK 205? I think these people deserve a lot more than that. But the moment we talk about the budget here, what kind of package is it going to be taken from, the money, and how is it going to continue? That's the data. Data, numbers, nothing more, it's nothing but numbers. If anybody's on the left or if they're on the right, all I can tell you is, if we're not talking about how this is going to go on, what the vision is, what the investments are going to be, or if they're not going to be, they're going to be adding to the elderly, how they're going to be adding to them, they're going to be adding to the fire department, the guys that I think they deserve it, because they're doing the job that you need at a time when you're really bad, and they're doing it for the minimum. We dealt with it in municipal elections. Whether he won or the mayor won, it probably doesn't matter. No, gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u107	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Now, Mr Laudát, then Mr Blažek, then Mr Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u108	Thank you for the floor. Mr Nykl. Your big problem is that you actually read and believe that crap on the Internet. But that's not what country control is about. Instead, if you would rather read, and not just you, instead of spying on politicians and competition, you would rather read the laws and proposals that the government is putting on the table, doing their opponents, discussing it in clubs, you wouldn't send - you wouldn't just tax funds, for example, to underline innovation in the future. Those are the visions, that's where they're projected specifically. You would also read or at least pay attention when I read here how specifically wasted, wasted money at the Department of Transport, how strikingly disadvantageous additions are concluded. It's probably important to surf the Internet and read crap.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u109	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Blažek, after him Mr Birke, after him Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u110	Hello, I, too, have responded to Mr Nykl's response through you. I don't know what's gonna happen in the wasteland of history, but let me give you one short example, not from so far away in history. In 1928 KSČ had 150,000 members, then Klement Gottwald joined, it had 25,000 members, the electoral result fell, and they all wrote at that time: there will be no Bolshevision, the communists will end up in the den of history. And there you go. It's been a few decades, and the party has become promising even for your Andrej Babiš. So it's very hard to use history's wasteland. You never know...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u111	I thank Mr Blažek. Another, with a factual remark, by Mr Birke. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I would like to tell you that the election is over. The election's over. We've been listening to the budget debate all day, six hours. Many of you here have taken to the mouth of the municipal election, the council. I don't know how many mayors are here today after the municipal election. But do you know the difference between these councils and this House? That their budgets are approved within an hour or so. And you know why? Because they use common sense where one and one are two. Not three, not four. You know, the debate about whether it's real or left is every year. It's the same song, same song. But for God's sake, let's go somewhere else. Nobody likes it! I don't know if you enjoy it. Some of you do. But let's get this budget approved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u113	Thank you, Mr Birke. As much as I am tired of it, I will give the floor to Mr Martin Komárek. [[Laughter on the bench.]] Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not enrich this endless debate on another philosophical subject, even though many are attacking me. I'm only going to perform here as a memorial. Through Mr President, I will tell Mr Laudát and Mr Kalousek, my dear colleagues, that Mr Kalousek dragged the reading of the Internet crap that is not to be trusted into this debate a few hours ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u115	I thank Mr Komárek. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Stanjura. Mr Laudát has changed his mind, so Mr Stanjura has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u116	Only for Mr Birke through you. We'll vote no, so let's vote no. Then it's only in one part of the House. I just want to remind you that the debate ended about 70 minutes ago. And remember why she started. Then don't blame us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u117	Now is the new chance that the debate will end again. If no one signs up for the debate - and a Member of Parliament of Svoboda is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u118	Thank you. A point of fact, by your means, to colleague Birke. I already told you. Questions are to be answered in the debate. But we have a situation here where we still get answers to questions about the state budget as an answer, as if they were electoral answers to voters, how to get them, not factual answers. The election's over. The state budget negotiations are the continuation of the elections, because I have not heard any factual answer to the justification of the budget except for the election statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u119	I thank Mr Svoboda. Now I ask who else is joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am quickly ending the general debate. I am asking the Minister's final words, or the rapporteur's. It's not like that. [[Mr Votava reports and the Members on the benches are laughing.]] I will therefore ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the voting procedure and to the resolutions which I will subsequently put to the vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, you should have asked me if I wanted the final word after Minister Babiš got it. And you reopened the debate. I should have gotten the final word. I would have told you anyway that I have nothing left to say to this great House. That would be the end of it, but you should have asked me. There. I register or I have received, or I have two motions for a resolution. The first motion for a resolution was made by Mr Kalousek, who I have in writing. For the sake of order, I would like to read it again, so that we know what the vote will be: The Chamber of Deputies returns the bill on the state budget to the government of the Czech Republic with the following recommendation: Firstly, expenditure and balance will be reduced by at least 20 billion. Kč. Secondly, increase the volume of investment expenditure from national sources to at least 2012 levels. The deadline is 20 days. I suppose I read it right. My colleague Kalousek nods, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u121	I thank the rapporteur. A very similar proposal which does not meet the requirements of § 102 para. 3, Mr Fiala submitted. I assume, therefore, that Mr Fiala is joining Mr Kalousek's proposal. That's right. We will therefore vote on the procedural proposal proposed by the President of the TOP 09 MEP Miroslav Kalousek, as read by the rapporteur. Does everyone know what they're going to vote on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u122	The rapporteur's opinion is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u123	Minister's opinion, please. [[Also negative.]] Initiating vote on the proposal - Sorry, I declare this vote confusing. [[Voices from the diaper.]] I'm registering the check-out request. I'm signing off on all of them. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the proposal by the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club, Miroslav Kalousek, to return the draft state budget to recast the Government in accordance with the resolution, as presented by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 36. Registered 176 Members, for 52, against 94. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the proposals, the resolutions, as you received in the attached press 331/1, the resolution of the Committee on Budgets number 138 of 8 October. I will ask the rapporteur, who added paragraph 4 to this in the general debate, to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u124	Yes, I have made an additional proposal to this resolution on the first reading of the government proposal. I would like to reiterate it in order to revive our memory: a new point 4 is added to point 3 of the motion for a resolution, which reads: 'Requests Chapter Administrators to submit the draft chapter to the committee responsible to which the proposal was ordered for discussion, both in written and electronic form'. [[Chapter workbook]] Of course, my position is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u125	The Minister's position? [[I agree.]] If I understand the procedure correctly, we will first vote on paragraph 4 with which the House would agree, and then on the overall proposal of all three previous points plus, where appropriate, that point if it were approved. Is everyone clear on what we're going to vote on? Does anyone object to this procedure? First of all, we will vote on paragraph 4 for the resolution, on the proposal, as submitted by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 37. Registered 176 Members, for 175, against none. The motion was accepted. Now, according to the rapporteur's proposal, we will vote on the entire resolution of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u126	Yes, that's right. I suppose everyone has, of course -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u127	It is resolution 331/1, which was delivered to you on 9 October. I am opening the vote on this resolution. Whoever is in favour of the budget committee's resolution on the state budget, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 38. Registered 176 Members, for 94, versus 51. The motion was accepted. I thank both the rapporteur and the Minister and end the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-006-001.u128	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. We have a crucial point in this meeting. We will continue with the approved items on the show, as they have been approved. Today's next item is item number
