ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u1	47. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 155/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered as House press 155/1. On the Senate's authority, Senator Jaroslav Zeman will present the proposal, and before she takes the floor, I will ask Mrs Jitka Chalánková, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table and watch the debate. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u2	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, allow me, on behalf of the Senate, to present to you a Senate proposal to amend Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on aid in material distress concerning the housing supplement. The aim of this proposal is to avoid payment of more housing supplements to one apartment or living room in accommodation facilities. State resources are being disproportionately provided today and housing costs are being overpaid in certain localities or buildings, which are many times higher than the usual costs for the housing form, which is inefficient and unacceptable. Low-income population groups have two-dose housing protection - a contribution to housing from the state social support system and a supplement to housing from the physical emergency aid system. The number of beneficiaries of both benefits is increasing, but this increase is significant for the supplement, namely for other housing forms, which are the hostels. Not for rental, ownership or cooperative housing. To illustrate, I'll give you a couple of payout numbers for the housing supplement. In 2011, 850 million were paid out. In 2012, it was already 1,673 million and last year, in 2013, even 2,814 million. These are already significant amounts for the state budget and therefore this situation, this situation, needs to be addressed immediately. In the Senate proposal, the possibility of payment of one housing supplement to one apartment or living room in accommodation facilities is incorporated into the law on assistance in material distress. At present, the circle of persons considered together is difficult to establish and in practice, there are more groups of persons assessed together in one apartment or living room of the accommodation facility. This then leads to the situation that more housing payments are paid into one apartment, and this is the very fact that the owners of the residential hotels have started to use it, when the housing supplement is much higher than the rent at the usual place. It is therefore necessary to lay down clearly the rule that the justified housing costs should be budgeted for all persons using the premises and overpayments no longer take place. This change is carried out by the regulation of the circle of persons considered together, where persons who actually use the apartment or room in the accommodation facility will always be assessed at the final stage of the evaluation of the entitlement. We also propose that the amount of the housing supplement paid to accommodation facilities should be at the usual level, but the maximum amount of normative housing costs is left under the State Social Support Act. It is necessary to prevent the owners of residential hotels from determining prices according to the standard of state social support and, on the contrary, to leave the institution in a material need to consider the amount and, where appropriate, what, in addition to the basic cost of housing, will be regarded as justified housing costs in this form. The body of assistance in material distress can thus determine the amount of remuneration that is usual at the place and not declared by the owner of the hostel. In the end, this change will also lead to a simplification of the administration of the housing supplement. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is capable of preventing further inefficient provision of housing surcharges, multiple overpayments of hostel owners and waste of state resources. Some will argue that it would be good to have a more comprehensive proposal to deal with social housing as such, but it has been going on for too long and there has still been no restriction on the abuse of housing supplements. However, with this proposal, we have a chance to stop immediately and abuse the dose, so I would like to ask you, as the petitioner, to refer this proposal to the committee and seriously address the issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u3	I thank Senator Jaroslav Zeman for his opening words and now I ask the rapporteur, Jitka Chalánková, for her intelligence report. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been informed of the House press 155, which is the Senate bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, as amended. The Senator has detailed you with this bill designed to limit the overpayment of housing payments provided as a benefit provided under the Physical Need Assistance Act. You have also been informed in detail about the development of these benefits and the amount of funds that are being provided in this area. [[18.00 hours]] The aim of this law is to limit the funds thus paid and also to clarify the range of beneficiaries to be assessed for the payment of the housing allowance and the housing supplement. This applies in this case to the housing supplement, which will be linked back to the group of persons assessed under the Housing Contribution Act. Government opinion. At its meeting on 28 April 2014, the Government discussed the proposal, assessed it and took a neutral position on it. As you have already heard from the translator, the government is preparing, and talks about preparing, a more comprehensive proposal for an amendment to the law on aid in material distress. It is also clear that a comprehensive solution is needed in this area, including the Social Housing Act. Nevertheless, I believe that this is a step in the right direction, and I will recommend a vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have two applications with priority rights and then another application. Now, then, Mr Tomio Okamura, then Mrs Labor and Social Affairs. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, that is exactly what has been suggested here, we have here again the amendment to the Law on Material Needs. The Dawn Movement proposed to put the housing allowance on the price locally usual in winter, it was rejected by the government with words a few months ago, and we all remember that a new proposal will be submitted here within two months. About two months here - a while ago it was teachers, so hopefully we'll all do the math, we've certainly graduated from primary school - and they've been gone for two months. I suspect he's been here four months, and the proposal isn't here. In this context, I would like to say that another objection that I have heard here in the winter from the representatives of the government that our proposal is not sufficient... that it does not sufficiently address social housing, with the fact that the law on social housing has to be broken. Well, that's certainly commendable, but I was extremely surprised now on Friday, and I have to say privately that she communicates very well with the Minister and talks with her in a friendly manner, but on Friday, when we were against each other in Radiožurnál, I heard for the first time on a direct question when the social housing law would be, the editor asked if it would be next year, so the Minister said that she thought it would not be next year. That it'll probably be next year. Well, now I really don't understand it at all, because if it was in February, or in March, I'm sorry, but anyway, those two months are gone, we've been denied something and we're still hearing it, and even here we've heard that it's gonna be linked to the law, or that there's a social housing law, and now we know that it's not even going to be next year, maybe next year, so somehow it just stops playing like the time sequence. Therefore, I would really like to ask that we stop making this conditional on some, I would say, excuses or other arguments. It's nice to talk to people who don't live next door. But with us in Bystřice pod Hostýn in Zlinský kraj we have it right on the square. We have 200 Rom directly accommodated there, the former hotel Podhoran is glued to the city office and next to it is the church. So we live together every day. And here I would like to give myself a little bit of a shot that I don't need, and even Senator Zeman here and others, we don't need to look regularly at, I'd say, the dedicated locations, which unfortunately we see here at the ministers of the ČSSD. Although it is good to get to know the issue repeatedly, we already live in it, and we know what the problem is. The problem is that we need to put a stop to the benefits of material distress, the housing allowance. So I would like to say that, once again, on this proposal, I think that we are not in the process of pushing our own proposal and jerking off political points at all costs in Dawn. Again, it is a proposal that is proposed through the political spectrum, even agreed by the Senate majority, that is, the ČSSD, so I would also like to ask, given the neutral position, to release it. In order to release him and not wait for the government proposal, because the citizens suffer today and daily, and even in that context, that we do not really have enough for pensions, and it is also a programme, it is another point in this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the valorisation of 1.8 percent. It's just a terrible state, and I have to say, we need to see the savings where it parasites on the current law. And just to remind you, this law on material distress has been in force here for eight years, folks. I don't know if many of you know this, it's been in force since 2006, which means here it's just not a problem that's come up now. He's been here eight years and we've witnessed eight years of inactivity. And I don't want to touch anyone, but it seems to me that the one who let this law pass on material distress must have been a lobby of some residential property owners or potential entrepreneurs who buy hostels and various broken hotels, and I have to say that when you walk in those cities and you're interested in it, because, as I say, I've been watching it for a long time because I come from that city, virtually. My kinship, that's what everyone thinks, frankly. And I just wanted to say that when I was looking at the statistics of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it even officially states that in 2012 the housing supplement was used in approximately 30,000 cases. That means I'm on purpose using numbers that are here from official sources so that somebody can't argue that úsvit or Okamura are here on purpose saying that there's an abuse of housing payments and that Rom people are moving to one place and that it's probably different. It's not like that, it's exactly on those D.O.D. pages - 30,000 cases. Well, it also says that 143,8 million crowns have been proven to have been used, so I guess we know it's the tip of the iceberg, we'll probably admit that, however, the amount -- anyway, we're talking about a lot of millions. So I would really like to put in a good word for letting this go and really pull together in this problem. In this context, I would just like to say a little bit of something. So I'm absolutely shocked because I'm not going to walk around the bush here, that it concerns, mostly it concerns, just our Romani people, I'd say, fellow citizens, moving to that one place and then the abuse of the supplement after, of course, the owners of the hostels and the like, where it's far from just Rom, it's normal white businessmen, as we're obviously mapped out. But I am more concerned that we need to address the law on material distress, and the Minister of Human Rights, Jiří Dienstbier, rather than dealing with the rights of us or citizens who pay taxes honestly and pay them honestly, and, on the contrary, from our taxes, when we are working, those who are currently parasitic and which we therefore need, I would say, smash, are preparing a strategy for us here, so he is throwing our strength into the strategy of Roma integration by 2020, which proposes positive discrimination against the Rom, and the government will be presented for approval by the end of June. So instead of working on an amendment to the Act on material distress or how the courts do not work, that is, how human rights are violated by the overwhelming majority of citizens of the Czech Republic, so here again we are dealing with problems that are not only related to most citizens of the Czech Republic, and here we are actually proposing racism, which means discrimination. In order not to put something in my mouth, I would - for example, here in this document, it is argued that Rom people should be supported in employment policy compared to the rest of the population, Romani students in higher education should receive a special subsidy of CZK 60,000 per year, and the strategy aims to increase the number of Rom people in politics or government. Well, so that the Minister doesn't leave me alone, I'm here to quote in writing the statement by the Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee for the ČSSD Miroslav Antl, whom I respect as a renowned lawyer and about whom experts and well-known lawyers say that he is a true expert in his place. And the CSSD itself chose him as chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee. [[18.10 hours]] He said of these proposals by Minister Dientsbier: Such a proposal is clearly unconstitutional for me. So we really have a person here who's proposing unconstitutional proposals. The High Representative of the ČSSD himself and a renowned lawyer say that these proposals are unconstitutional, so I think it might not hurt to have a little bit of order within who is saying what and who is judging what. But I say for myself that in any case I trust Miroslav Antl, whom I know as chairman of the committee when I was in the Senate, and he's certainly respected, that's what I've seen in his approach to major lawyers, major lawyers. So I just didn't want to judge anything here - in this sense, we are in a material need of the law, but I would like to ask the government in this way to keep the forces we have or have, and the time - please don't waste it, I would say, in an inappropriate direction, or in a direction that doesn't burn the vast majority of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Let us devote ourselves to human rights. This means the right to decent lives and the right not to parasite decent people's taxes. Let's talk about that. There are over 9 million of these people here. And then let's throw in and support the amendment to the Senate's Law on material distress when the úsvit amendment hasn't passed. And I would also ask in the future that the Human Rights Minister, in line with what the committee chair here also says for ČSSD, Miroslav Antl, the Senate's Constitutional Law Committee, not to propose unconstitutional proposals here and, above all, not to waste staff, money and time on stupidity, non-constitutional crap, but to actually work here so that decent citizens do not have to pay taxes because of parasites and not to be vacuumed so that we can redirect those taxes to, for example, pensions and decent social security. Thank you. And of course, the Dawn movement supports this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u7	I thank Mr Tomio Okamur, but I will also ask the Minister for a respite, because with a factual remark - well, the resignation of Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I will take this only briefly and in substance. I'm gonna set some things straight. Firstly, the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on this proposal is neutral because the principles contained in the proposal can be accepted. As far as the government amendment is concerned, this amendment will be submitted to the Government during the month of June in accordance with the Government's legislative plan. Now they're dealing with comments. Our novel is simply more complex, it has greater ambitions, and it also took more time to deal with all sorts of comments, because these are quite controversial things, where a lot of people have different opinions. And all we're talking about right now is an amendment to the law in material distress, which should prevent the abuse of housing supplements. [[on assistance]] Otherwise, I honestly think that purpose is mainly to prevent this great abuse. But at this point, I'm sure we're not gonna cause those people from the dormitories, or those spaces that aren't actually counted as hostels, the quality is problematic there, so we're not gonna give them any more dignified conditions or make sure they're socially involved. But we want, as the colleague here said, to prevent the abuse. And then there's Law No. 2, that's the law on social housing. Once again, as stated in the Government's legislative plan, the substantive intention is to be submitted no later than the second quarter of 2015, in the second quarter of 2016, to be submitted to the Government with a view to applying this law from 1 January 2017. It's a law that no government has been able to agree on for at least the last 15 years. If we do this sooner, great, it will be. But I'm just a realist, and I don't want to promise, but here's the plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u9	Thank you, Minister Michaela Marksová. Next in the debate is Mrs Jana Hnyková, Mr Antonín Seďa will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good evening. We have here again on the agenda a bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on material distress. [[assistance in:]] In connection with this amendment to the Senate Bill, I would like to emphasise and recall some figures from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Chapter 313, for 2013. These figures are closely related to the current proposal. I will focus on the chapter of the benefits in material distress, which are paid on the basis of the above-mentioned law. These are the following benefits: a living allowance, a housing supplement and extraordinary immediate assistance. Benefits should be paid by the labour offices to all those in need. That's where everything's perfectly fine. In the budget, 7.5 billion were earmarked for this chapter in 2013. Kč. The chapter was increased by another 750 miles during the year. CZK 8 billion. 250 miles. But even this amount was not enough and was allowed in this indicator to exceed the budget by the non-profiling costs of unused expenditure of 2 billion. 372 miles. 416 thousand. Kč. And that's how we get to the final 10 billion. 622 miles. 416 thousand, an increase of incredible 3 billion. 122 miles. 416 thousand. Kč. Which amounts to 128,12 per cent of the adjusted budget. I'm gonna stop by the second batch from the list, and that's a housing supplement. We've heard this before, but I'll tell you again. The actual costs for 2012 amounted to 1 billion. 673 miles. 919 thousand, actual costs for 2013 then 2 billion. 814 miles. 372 thousand. So the difference between 2012 and 2013 is 1 billion. 140 miles. 453 thousand. Kč. And I want to warn you that this scenario is repeated this year. I would have imagined that these resources, which are spent in this way, could be used much more practically. They could be used to increase, for example, the salaries of social services workers who are the worst-rewarded workers in the public sphere. But I'm going back to the amendment to the bill. As we read in the introduction, the aim is to avoid paying more housing payments per apartment or living room in accommodation facilities, which is what the current regulation of the law on aid in material distress allows. In this way, State resources are disproportionately provided and housing costs are overpaid, which are many times higher than the cost of housing in the place usual for the given form of housing, which is inefficient and unacceptable. It is therefore necessary to establish in the Law on material distress the possibility of paying one supplement for housing per apartment or living room in accommodation facilities. Members of the Úsvit movement of direct democracy submitted among the first of their proposals to the amendment to the Act on material distress, which was discussed by the Chamber of Deputies on 12 February 2014. Mr David Kádner presented us with a proposal for a change in Section 33, suggested that an additional housing fee be granted only if the applicant uses the apartment of which he is the owner or the tenant, provided that the apartment complies with the hygiene and construction technical regulations. At the same time, an additional fee could only be granted up to the amount corresponding to the rent usual at this point and time. [[18.20 hours]] Members of the Dawn of Direct Democracy wanted to ensure decent conditions for life, and we also wanted to save money from the state budget. Despite the long and emotional debate in which about 40 speakers have spoken, you have rejected our proposal and all fell under the table. And I'm asking when the trade in human misery will end in our country. When will we prevent State funds to help from being spent as inadequate housing? When are we going to prevent the poorest citizens from being enriched by the entrepreneurs who bought the buildings, making them hostels, and just cashing in small sums of money? How much longer are we going to suffer this in our country? And once again I ask, who does this condition suit? We heard the promises of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in February, but also of the Minister of Human Rights. It's June, and as they say in the mountains, it's quiet by foot, even though today we've learned that it's probably coming to the finish line. Please, let us do everything we can to prevent the waste of state funds. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I beg you very much, and I request the release of this Senate amendment to the Act on material need for second reading. Or do you want to continue to support these practices in our country? I didn't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u11	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr Antonín Seďa, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u12	I really have to give my colleague Zavadil that sometimes it's funny. We've got 30 minutes of debate, and they're asking us to release it, but no one's protesting it, are they? Well, that's pretty good news, so maybe we don't all have to come in and ask the others to let it go, too. But I came to the microphone for something else. Mr Okamura criticized the Minister's wish to have a law in 2016. Well, you made a mistake, Mr. Ambassador, through Mr. Control. Madam Secretary doesn't want it until 2017. So you're criticizing that it will be in two years, and the Minister says in three years, and he has an excellent argument - because it's in the government's legislative plan. So I'm asking you to fix it, and the next time you're right to criticize the government, so you know that it's not until 2017, which is actually an election year. In other words, we have heard that this will probably not be the case in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u13	I thank Mr Stanjur for his time. Now, before my colleague Seďa, Minister Jiří Dienstbier with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u14	A Member here just moments ago spoke of promises made by myself and by Secretary Marksová, which were supposedly not kept. If you look up the tapestry from the previous meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, we have always promised deadlines that we will submit an amendment to the Act on material distress, which corresponds to the Government's legislative plan. And, as Secretary Marksová said here, there is an amendment to the law on material distress just before completion, and you can be sure that by the end of the month or at the latest by the beginning of July, the government will discuss it and send it to the House. I mean, we keep the terms we promised. As far as the Social Housing Act is concerned, I am interested in Mr Stanjura's speech. I wonder why the previous governments, which were involved in the ODS, were not able to present any draft social housing law at all in almost eight years, and why they admitted the legal condition when such massive housing payments could be used by the hostess. We're cleaning up the barn that the previous governments left for us. As far as the deadline for the approval of the social housing law is concerned, I have stressed many times that, of course, it is very easy to write a proposal from a legislative technical point of view, but what the previous governments have failed to do here for twenty or fifteen years, so we want to do in about two years. We need dialogue not only within the coalition or with other MPs here in the Chamber of Deputies, with senators, but we also need dialogue with municipal representatives, because it is quite obvious that an effective social housing system cannot be implemented without municipalities taking over a substantial part of the responsibilities related to this. And if we want the municipalities to take on some responsibilities, then we also need to have a debate on how we will ensure sufficient funding for them to fulfil this obligation. This dialogue needs to be conducted and, of course, we are taking logical steps. We have set a deadline for the presentation of the concept of social housing by September of this year - I think we have gone too far with the time ambition here - and logically by the second quarter of next year to present a substantive intention in the dialogue I was talking about, and by the next year, I think it is quite realistic, even ambitious, if we compare it with the previous period. Of course, the most vicious problems related to housing related to the abuse of housing supplements will be addressed by the final government amendment to the law on material distress. However, even I have no problem if the proposal currently under discussion is referred to second reading and if the debate involves both the draft law under discussion and, where appropriate, others, including the government bill. I think it will be clear in this debate that the government proposal is the most comprehensive and that it will address the situation in the most sensible way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u15	Thank you to Minister Jiří Dienstbier. Now, factual remarks. First, Mr Karel Fiedler, then President Stanjura, then, Mr Okamura, has he applied with a factual or preferential right? With priority rights, okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have time to make your point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u16	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would only react briefly. Mr Stanjura here said that there have been practically 30 minutes of chatter and that no motion for rejection has yet been made, which I am really grateful that no motion for rejection has yet been made. I would just add briefly that we didn't have to save 30 minutes here, but four months when this Dawn proposal was already under discussion. And what Minister Dienstbier said here. I am so pleased that he has confessed here that those governments have failed to do a number of things in 15 to 20 years, because I am convinced that there were also governments of social democracy that did not do a lot of things during that period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now, the factual point taken by Zbyněk Stanjura, then the factual point made by the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u18	First, to show the sympathy of the opposition, I would like to sincerely regret the Minister, who has set such strict terms that he is now so fulfilling with all his strength. We really appreciate it, Minister, as I mean, but it's your terms, so I don't know who you're complaining about. However, when we return to the debates in the Chamber of Deputies, and I, unlike your prime minister, am not sitting here for 20 years, but for the fourth year, we have very often come up with proposals against the abuse of social benefits for tightening up the conditions. We haven't found most of it in this House. And I am very glad that the representatives of social democracy who have been making it easy for years are saying, "Yes, it is a problem, we are going to deal with it." And that -- that's what I said last time -- that the government proposal would be more complex, wider, just better, I know. We were in government until a year and a half ago, we said that very often too, so I have no reason to argue with that. I'd just like to have that text on my desk, so it's not like the Service Act, that we went through the first reading in January, pretending that we were debating it, so that after four and a half months, we could get a so-called amendment, where the name of the law and the whole inside changed, and we're pretending that we're at second reading. At the same time, you, who should be the first to insist that this is a new law and that it should be the first reading. [[unintelligible]] And if you weren't doing so much work to justify the government's negative position - I'm going to talk about it next Tuesday in our laws - and you're going to do the deadlines you set yourself, you might be able to do it faster than you expect today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u19	I thank Mr Stanjur for his time. Now, the rapporteur with a factual remark. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond briefly to Minister Dienstbier. The problem of social housing has been going on for a long time, it has really been for several years. I've been following this possibility of a solution in the last government. There were various proposals. For example, in an austerity package, there was a change in the provision of housing supplements of up to 50 percent of the household's income, which we did not dare to do for political reasons, given the political consideration of all the pros and cons and the risk of 100 000 people on the street, especially families with children. So it's important to be very sensitive. The idea of what such a social housing law is supposed to look like is basically clear. But communication with the Union of Towns and Municipalities is ongoing, but it is clear that they too need clear guarantees to have the funds to carry out their duties. So what the law is supposed to look like, it's basically written. But it is important to negotiate a consensus and tax revenue or other means that will enable this to be implemented. So that's what I'd like to say for the record. The funds that go into these housing supplements are also because the number of beneficiaries of these benefits is increasing. Not only because hostels have appeared, where owners deliberately abuse these benefits of those who find themselves in need, but also contributions are received by lone seniors, families with children, etc. It is a really sensitive complex subject, but I am glad that a proposal has appeared here that can take the first step. However, I would also like to say that the Committee on Social Policy dealt very closely with this issue at one of its spring meetings, and, if I may be personal, it also adopted a unanimous resolution across the political spectrum in which it personally appointed me as a member of the Commission for the Preparation of the Social Housing Act. This is how I got the decree in this commission, which was at the Ministry of Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u21	Madam rapporteur, your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u22	I'm done. The government has determined that the gesture of this commission is transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The Commission is meeting - I was no longer invited. I will therefore ask why this committee does not respect the resolution and request of the Committee on Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u23	There. Now with priority rights, Mr Tomio Okamura, then properly signed in by Members Seďa and Hovorka. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am more or less briefly. About the government's legislative plan. Well, now I get it. Because, of course, Minister Dienstbier has drawn up a legislative plan so that he can have time for total crap. This means that I will add to the proposal for positive discrimination against the Rom. We reject discrimination against any citizens of the Czech Republic! Dawn rejects discrimination against any citizens of the Czech Republic. And the Minister of Human Rights proposes unconstitutional discrimination. And the second thing is, there's a waste of time here. The second thing is Mr. Dienstbier's proposal to vote for foreigners! These aliens have nothing to do with us. They didn't even vote for us here. And the government and Mr. Dienstbier are wasting their time just to make a second suggestion. With the proposal, instead of addressing the rights of Czech citizens, there is again a waste of time. So if this is how a legislative plan is built to waste time on other, unnecessary proposals, then I understand that it may be too late. So I would like to call on you, Minister, to address the proposals for Czech citizens with Czech citizenship. They elected us. And they have problems respecting their own rights. And he wasn't wasting his time being silly. And the other thing I want to ask you directly. Let's get back to it. The Chairman of the Constitutional Committee for the ČSSD says about your proposal that I do not support positive discrimination and that such a proposal is clearly unconstitutional to me. So I'm asking you here to publicly say whether the Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee for the ČSSD is right, Mr. Miroslav Antl, or if you are proposing unconstitutional proposals. Answer us! If President Miroslav Antl is right, which I respect, and I think he is right, or if you are right. So one or the other is wrong, and one or the other is talking about an unconstitutional proposal. And I'd like to hear it publicly. Or, of course, agree first within the ČSSD, who is actually right. But I trust Miroslav Antl. I know him as a renowned lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u25	Thank you. Now, Mr. Antonín Seďa. But before that, Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club, Roman Sklenák. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u26	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to those duly registered, who must wait, but I must respond to two speeches by President Okamura. He is astonished that there are people in social democracy who do not feel the same way about everything. I understand that in his party, which has nine members, everyone must think what the President thinks, and if anyone comes up with another idea, then they must leave. But we are a democratic party, and it is perfectly natural that there are different opinions and we are having a debate. And what is unconstitutional is decided by only one institution in this country, and that is the Constitutional Court. If someone says that from his point of view it could be unconstitutional, the point is that the material is for discussion and its final form will be discussed for a long time. And on top of your references to the fact that you submitted a proposal for a law on aid in material distress and it was rejected. It's not always the same when two do the same thing. Your designs from Dawn are just very bad, very poor quality. You have major legislative shortcomings there. And we're always just stating why it's not possible to discuss the draft, because in order to be approved, it would have to be completely redesigned. So look at the government's positions, look at what the House has to say about your suggestions. And if you're calling on us to make some sort of order, and you're encouraging us to do what we're supposed to do, then I'd take the liberty of returning it to you to focus on improving your legislative work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u27	Thank you. My colleague Seďa can wait, because now I have three factual points. First, a factual comment by Minister Jiří Dienstbier, then a factual comment by President Tomio Okamura and then by President Radim Fiala and then by Mr Černoch. Please, four. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u28	As the Demagog server has revealed in the past, Mr Okamura often uses completely senseless statements and pays back the fifth over nine. I would like to point out to Mr Okamura from the Dawn of Hate Tomio Okamura that I have not made a proposal yet. There is some proposal for a strategy for Roma integration, which I do not present anywhere yet, which has been submitted for public debate, I myself have some reservations about it, and surely the final form will have a completely different wording than the existing one. As far as the Roma integration strategy is concerned, its approval is a question of fulfilling one of the sub-conditionalities of drawing European funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u29	Yes, thank you. Now Mr Tomio Okamura's factual comment. Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared, then Mr Černoch. Prime Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not know whether President Sklenák was here through the President or what part of the government is now. 'Cause I said it last time. But look at the Internet. Why did your government come into existence? Why was she appointed President Zeman? On the basis of the Service Act. And let's all look, black and white, at the website of the Chamber of Deputies, what Rusnokův's government and the Government's Legislative Council say about the service law that you have passed is signed by Minister Chovanec, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and the entire platoon of top politicians of the ČSSD. It says the proposal is unconstitutional. It even says that the proposal is against the Labour Code, if I recall correctly, and a whole series of reservations. This means that this government was actually created on the basis of a total pasquila, a legislative pasquila, where it is marked black and white by the previous government and the Legislative Council of the Government. To this day, we are waiting for the law to be passed. And you dare say anything about our designs that no one has ever called unconstitutional, unlike yours, no law of the Dawn has ever been called unconstitutional! [[♪ Loud and angry ♪]] Not even in the government's opinion! That means it's really the top! [[18.40 hours]] This means, I really recommend, read on the basis of which your government was created, and stop producing the pasquila on which the governments of the Czech Republic are created. And if you make them, please complete them and, most importantly, in the term, present them so that we can discuss them here. I'm begging you. And I didn't get the answer from the Minister. Because I say again, we have not yet proposed unconstitutional proposals in Dawn, and I ask again who is right. And the fact that these personal invectives are offensive to us at Dawn, I find that awkward. When anybody's argument runs out, he's always slapping some dirty spit, and to that level, what Minister Dienstbier has done here, I'm not really gonna go down. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u31	I'm going to report the order of actual notes as you volunteered. Radim Fiala, Marek Černoch, Jan Chvojka, Roman Sklenák, Jaroslav Zavadil. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u32	Thank you. Tomio Okamura basically already said what I was gonna say. I'm just gonna repeat one thing. Every time úsvit makes a bill, it's a pasquil. The last time he was marked as a pasquil was because he had a few flaws in him. One such mistake was that we were missing the dot after the sentence. But no one ever said or ever speculated about whether the proposals were unconstitutional or not. Basically, today, ČSSD politicians speculate against themselves on two bills whether they are unconstitutional or not. In other words, they are on the verge of constitutionality in presenting their laws. And I think it's definitely for an internal debate in social democracy. [[Dissenting voices from the left.]] Anyway, I don't want to talk about it today. We passed the law four months ago. Let's go back to a constructive debate, because material emergency is definitely something that is pushing us, which is bothering the whole Czech Republic. And here we are debating, still debating, and the Czech Republic is spending millions, tens, hundreds of billions of crowns to keep entrepreneurs with human misery earning. The last thing I wanted to say was to Mr. Dienstbier. Every time we make a law, it's either him or one of his colleagues says they have a more complex novel. We have passed ten laws. So I would like to call on Minister Dienstbier to start working, because it will take a while to present ten more complex amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Of course, I'll lead you all to the point, but you're not making this easy for me. Please, my colleague, Marek Černoch, on a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u34	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Everything I wanted to say was said by my colleague Radim Fiala. [[Glee in the hall.]] Only if I can, because attack úsvit that she has nine members. In all seriousness, Mr President to you, sorry, through Mr President, I apologise, so one of the reasons is that what happened recently to social democracy in the region should not have happened. But that's a thing I don't think belongs here at all. The only thing I'd like to ask the minister in the very first speech. I thought it was a threat to the municipalities that the moment they deal with it, it was their responsibility, and let them think about it a little bit, if they really want to have a responsibility. At least that's how I felt about it. Completely to the end. I don't think there's anything going on here that should make the parties attack, but something that I think is really needed. Speaking of legislative scumbags, if nothing else, at least the topics that could have been dealt with here in decades and never been dealt with have been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u35	Thank you. I also thank my colleague Chvojka for giving up his factual point. Now with a point of fact, President Roman Sklenák. A colleague of Zavadil will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u36	Indeed, because there was talk of Rusnokův's government's position on our parliamentary bill of service. I just really want to say that there were two opinions. We have already submitted a proposal in the last parliamentary term and there the position of Rusnokův's government was quite helpful and neutral. And then we brought the very same law again in this parliamentary term, and the same Rusnokův government gave a second opinion, and that was negative. So it is also interesting that the same government has expressed itself twice differently on the same proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u37	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, now with a factual remark. Mr František Laudát will also prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel like Alenka in Wonderland. We are discussing an amendment to the law on aid in material distress, and here we come to a completely different land. There's talk of positive discrimination, there's talk and talk about all kinds of things that have nothing to do with this law. As my colleague Stanjura has already said here, I have whispered to him that I think it's pointless for us to comment on something that I think is passable for this long. So please stop talking about supporting this. Get off those who don't want to support it, and you guys take a vote and we can leave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u39	Thank you for your advice to my colleague Zavadil. But the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to end the debate before I draw up the applications. With a factual remark, Mr František Laudát. Mr. President of ODS Stanjura will prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, we're actually talking about some kind of problem that actually affects people. If they listen to us, please stop insulting each other and come to a vote. I was gonna say the same thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u41	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura, on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u42	Those with priority rights have the advantage of talking about what they want. As Roman Sklenák, a fellow member of the MP's club, wondered why there were two different positions of Rusnokův's government. The first time they did it, they still thought they'd be with you in the government. [[Storm applause from the right.]] Then they failed in the election, so they wrote the truth the second time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u43	Thank you especially for keeping time. We will return to the subject, by speaking to Mr Antonín Sed, who has made a proper commitment to the debate first. [[The gayness across the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u44	Thank you. Not first, but second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u45	Second. Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u46	Dear members of the government, Mr Senator, dear colleagues, I may not be pleased to welcome you, but I will also support this amendment. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] But I still have a few points to make. Each of us knows how huge the problem has become with the adoption of a number of amendments to the social reform of Minister Drábek. This is also recognised by the government, which, in its neutral opinion, rather related to the forthcoming government amendment, gave reasons for supporting the bill. The current situation in social enterprise, and it has already been said here, is not bearable. Not only from the point of view of the impact on spending, which amounts to almost 3 billion. CZK for a supplement for housing, but also for reasons of hygiene and human, where a number of persons live in one apartment and the owner of the apartment or the owner of the social hostel collects the amount of surcharges which exceed several times the amount of rent in the usual place. As has been said, the aim of the proposal is to define the payment of more housing payments to one apartment or one living room. Here I would like to remind you that this avoidance of social engineering was caused by the abolition of the binding of the housing supplement with the housing contribution, which until January 2012 worked and allowed the establishment of a circle of jointly assessed persons. Today, this is not possible and, paradoxically, instead of the social savings promised by the right-wing governments, there has been economic and other social problems in localities where such social hostels work. At the same time, I am aware that the Senate proposal contains several uncertainties which must be adapted in the context of the next legislative process, as stated in the Government's opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u47	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is now the last Member to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u48	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I will follow up on the words of Minister Dienstbier. If we're cleaning up, we can clean up now. We don't have to wait for a proposal to abuse the housing supplement by a government proposal. Nothing prevents us from correcting the law at second reading, and since the House will act in the second half of July, we can discuss this law. I therefore propose a reduction in the time limit for the negotiation of this law by 30 days. I think that table that's in the explanatory memorandum, and it says that six years later, the cost of housing payments has risen from 524 miles. CZK 1,673 miles. The crown, it's clear. If we approve this bill in July, we can save at least half a billion crowns if we take the increase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u49	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka and his procedural proposal, which fell in the debate. That's all I have to suggest. I'm asking who else to debate because I don't have another application. Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. There was no motion to return or refuse. I'm asking if the request is final, Mr. Senator, for the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u50	I want to thank you. I didn't expect you all to be helpful, it was a little longer, but thank God we moved forward. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u51	The rapporteur will certainly sum up the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u52	I really won't be stalling much longer. I just want to reiterate that there was no motion to reject this bill, but that there was a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u53	Yes, thank you. Therefore, we will only consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee. I'm asking who else has a proposal for the commandment. I do not see anyone, so we will vote on this proposal, in the vote on order number 44, which I have begun. Who is for the commandments of the Social Policy Committee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 44. Of the present 156 for 139, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now decide to shorten the deadline for the 30 days vote by the order number 45 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 45. From the present 158 for 53, against 53. The motion was not accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Social Policy and the time limit for discussion has remained in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 60 days. Thank you, Mr Senator, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 47. I'm gonna try to have one more ambition, and that's... A colleague of the Sklenák reports earlier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u54	I think, given the time left until the end of today's meeting day, that it would not be too effective to start another point, and therefore I would like to request a ten-minute break at the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-017-047.u55	Yes, thank you. So the chairman of the Social Democracy Club ended it. A proposal similar to § 56 para. 9 Rules of Procedure. Thank you, I wish you a good evening, and tomorrow morning we continue at 9 a.m. with answers to written interpelations rejected by Members against individual ministers, and at 11 p.m. firmly assigned points. Thank you.
