ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-011-014.u1	14. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of the financial market / House print 179/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President and the Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Babiš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-011-014.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you here a government bill amending certain laws in the field of the financial market. Certain technical changes to certain laws governing the financial market are made by the draft law. In particular, it is a bill on payment, a law on limitation of payments in cash and an act on insurance intermediaries. The amendment to the law on payment services is implemented into Czech law by a European regulation that provides that payments in euro will have to be made in the future in uniform pan-European standards. This regulation will not become binding on the Czech Republic as a non-euro Member State until 2016, but we already need to make some related changes in our legal order. The amendment to the Cash Reduction Act responds to one of the 2011 Supreme Administrative Court judgments. At the time, the Supreme Administrative Court decided somewhat surprisingly that the Act on limitation of payments only applies to cases where payment is covered by an existing commitment. For example, loans or donations fell out of the scope of this law. The Ministry of Finance believes that there is no factual reason for this, and therefore we propose to amend the law on limiting cash payments so as to cover all payments regardless of their legal title. The extension of this law is also due to a reduction in the limit for mandatory cash-free payment, which is reduced from CZK 350 000 and CZK 270 000 in accordance with the Government's programming declaration. The amendment to the Insurance Intermediaries Act responds to the fact that the new Civil Code has repealed the former Insurance Contract Act without taking over the provisions on information obligations with respect to insurance clients. These provisions are therefore now added to the Insurance Intermediaries Act. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to give my consent to the proposal for this law, with which I fully agree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-011-014.u3	Thank you, Mr Vice-President of the Government, and I will now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jiří Dolejš. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-011-014.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Pleasant morning, dear colleagues. On this proposal and the introduction made by the Minister of Finance, it can only be added that it is an amendment which, of course, is based on a harmonisation obligation, but is not only harmonisation. It also responds to some other facts, of which the essential Minister of Finance mentioned - the Supreme Administrative Court, the Government's programming declaration, the intervention in the Civil Code and so on. Basically, this European standard is a pretty important step towards fulfilling the SEPA project, i.e. basically a single payment area. And while it is true that the Czech Republic is not a member of the euro area, given our close connection to the euro area, it is certainly logical that we also want to build this mechanism in the relevant stages, the final one of which is in 2016. Since the amendment is quite extensive, of course, attention can be expected mainly from corporate entities that make the payments in euro, of course it also concerns financial market entities, currency exchange, etc., and undoubtedly also from the supervisory authority in this area, that is to say the Czech National Bank. We will see what the second reading will bring, but the way it is presented, I think it is a rational matter, and I can recommend it for myself to discuss it so that it can pass through the first reading without difficulty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-011-014.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate. I'm asking if anyone wants to sign up for it from the scene. It's not like that. No one's logged in. In that case, I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, and I ask if you want to propose this bill for discussion to another committee. It's not like that. Okay. We will take the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgets? Initiating vote. It's a 40 vote. Whoever agrees with this motion for a resolution, press the button, raise his hand. Thank you. Who's against it? Or who got held up? I conclude the vote number 40, the Members present are 141, 119 for them, the proposal has been adopted. I note that this bill has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets. I'm done discussing this point. I got a note from today's meeting, so I'm gonna read it. From today's meeting on 30. 4. Members Roman Kubíček, Antonín Seďa, Květa Matušovská, Marek Ženíšek apologize for working with the delegation of the Foreign Committee of the Slovak Council of the Slovak Republic. [[read by Grey, laughter in the hall]] [[read by Matoušovská]] I'm sorry, I missed it. How? Sedica. [[Members call the correct wording of the name "Sedya'.]] I have you written here, Mr. Ambassador. You're not sorry, you'll be present at the hearing. Well, in that case, I'm not apologizing. And Olga Havlová from 1:00 to 3:00. You're sorry. You agree. Okay. Sedica. Okay. Mr Antonín Seďa apologizes, as I have read the names, from one to three in the afternoon they apologize from the hearing. Thank you for the correction that I could have read it right. We'll continue the negotiations. The next item is
