ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, hello. I welcome you for the first time in the new year, I wish everyone a lot of health, a lot of success and I am opening the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to inform you that I have called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 83 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 13 January of this year. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr. Rykala card number 2. Before I get any more information on any spare cards, we should now identify the meeting verifiers. I propose that we designate Mr Václav Klučka and Mrs Mrs. Jana Hnyková. I'll ask if there's another proposal. If this is not the case, I will begin the vote and ask who agrees that the verifiers of this meeting be Mr Klučka and Mrs Hnyková, please raise your hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number one, 109 colleagues and colleagues signed in for 97. I note that we have designated Mr Klučka and Mrs Hnyková as verifiers for this meeting. Now I would like to read you the apologies as I have received them to this point. The following Members apologise from the sitting: Mrs Bebarová Rujbrová - health reasons, Mr Benda - family reasons, Mr Benešík - foreign travel, Mrs Dobešová - family reasons, Mr Gabal - health reasons, Mr Jakubčík - foreign travel, Mr Kádner - but only from 4 pm on a working day, Mr Klaška - foreign travel, Mr Lank - foreign trip, Mrs Nytrová - medical reasons, Mr Pospíšil - health reasons, Mr Stupčuk - personal reasons, Mr Šenfeld - foreign travel. I see Mrs Zelienková here, I have your apology here, but I think that's a mistake. Mr Zimola within 12 hours for business reasons. The Prime Minister Rusnok apologizes for working reasons, Minister Koníček - working reasons, Minister Lukl - working reasons, Minister Toman - also working reasons. I will traditionally ask you for a slight reduction in the level of noise in the hall, because we will proceed to the programme of the 5th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application, no amendment or addition of the agenda may be proposed and this programme may not be extended either. I have the first application here, it is the application of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I will give you my word immediately - but once again, please, really, let us listen and listen to Mr Kalousek's arguments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, honourable Members. Let me also wish a lot of strength to the rest of this year 2014 and let me give the opinion of the TOP 09 and the starosta to convene this extraordinary meeting and its programme. No one doubts that the titles included in the extraordinary meeting programme are the titles of the major bills to be discussed. The question is, of course, which model should be a carrier. This concerns, in particular, the Service Act. But when we talk about the names of the laws, they are undoubtedly necessary and need to be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies and approved in some form. But the problem is, that's not why we're meeting here today, on January 21st, at an emergency meeting and why there's five bills on the agenda, four of them as purposeful cover, and the real reason is the fifth, that's the amendment to the Service Act. In other words, the only reason is to meet the condition of the President of the Republic, who has promised not to require a negative illustration certificate from ministers if he passes by the first reading of the amendment to the Service Act. This is not my invention, I draw from open sources, this is what the President said, after all, that is what the President of ANO Babiš said. When he left the President's office, he said: The President informed me that it was possible to resolve this by discussing the Staff Law urgently. That's why we're meeting here today. In our opinion, the President has made a legally completely senseless and very dangerous condition, and the Chamber of Deputies is completely undignified and, in our view, in an outrageous manner, in line with this condition. Firstly, it is very undignified for the Chamber of Deputies to accept the senseless condition of the President of the Republic and, in effect, to give him some factual part of the powers to appoint a government which is based on free elections, not on presidential elections, but on elections to the Chamber of Deputies. But it's a very dangerous content of the condition. By discussing any law at first reading, nothing will change in the legal order at all. It doesn't turn into a legal order or a letter. However, the President of the Republic says: If this law goes through the first reading, I will ignore the provisions of the Illustration Act and ignore the constitutional customs of appointment of ministers so far, and I will start acting differently. After all, constitutional customs are idiotic, why he couldn't change them if he was elected by direct choice. Please, this is the position of the President of the Republic and we have the President whom we have chosen. But that the majority of the Chamber of Deputies is coming forward and that the majority of the Chamber of Deputies is aware that although there is not a single word in the texts of today's drafts, the first reading of today's first reading is prepared to effectively abolish the rendering law in the ministries - not by changing the regulation, but by meeting in our opinion the outrageous views and behaviour of the President of the Republic. In cooperation with him, at first reading of this law, you will indirectly amend the illustration law by reading it yourself. That's something we just can't approach. We consider it undignified, we consider it dangerous. For dangerous both in terms of respect for the rule of law and in terms of dealing with the past. Therefore, we cannot support the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u3	I am sorry, but it is not possible to make a factual point at this stage, because only speakers with priority rights such as Mr and Mr ODS President Mr Fiala, who is next registered, can speak. I would also like to congratulate him on his election as Chairman of the ODS. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Then President Faltýnek and then Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am known to be a quite consistent advocate of parliamentary democracy, and I should therefore be pleased that Parliament is meeting. But I'm really asking you why we're meeting here today, why we don't meet here at the proper meeting, but we have this extraordinary meeting where we have a number of drafts of very important laws, which, of course, are presented in the form of a parliamentary initiative, are not sufficiently prepared for a new government coalition, and if we accept them in this form, they will only cause the other problems that this country has. When you answer the question I asked in truth, you will find that the only reason we are meeting here today is the law that is prepared as the last law on civil servants' service, which is intended to allow Mr. Babiš to become a member of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do this, we will only further damage the political culture in this country and the rules of parliamentary democracy, which we should all be convinced of and which we should all follow. Because some of you, if I were to tell you this as a political scientist, you would say that you don't understand, and I'm afraid that some might be true, so let me give you a very simple example. If we wanted to be driven by a driver who lost his driving license as a result of some misdemeanor, would we really do that by changing the law? Or would we rather not change it and put another driver there? That's not an absurd example. That's exactly the case. We can't make laws because they don't suit one person. And I want you to understand me. A colleague of mine from the government used to say very often that she was being helpful herself. Not everyone believed him because it happened to be the finance minister. But I am really friendly myself today, and I have a great understanding of the ANO movement, which, as Mr. Babiš's next company, wants to push his boss into the government. I understand that. But what I don't understand is that other democratic parties are taking action on this game. And I would like to draw your attention to both the representative of social democracy and KDU-ČSL that the responsibility will not ultimately be up to Mr Babiš, but it will be up to you and the greatest responsibility will be to Prime Minister Sobotek. What we're doing now or what you want to do is distort political culture in this country. And I'll tell you one more thing. Before the elections, you've all been lashing out, and most of all, the YES movement, how you won't be like politicians. The first thing you do is create a privilege for the political class. The minister won't have to have a clerk's certificate, but the directors will. The right thing is for everyone to have a demonstration certificate and for politicians not to enjoy this privilege that you want to introduce. Once again, I call on democratic political parties to consider whether they will take this step, whether they really want to negate the past in this way, whether they want to change the laws because they do not comply with one person, and whether they want to harm democratic political culture in this way. For the Civil Democratic Party, I say that in the name of the citizens, we will not do this, that we will not join in and that we will not agree with the agenda of this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u5	The President of the ANO Club is Mr. Faltýnek. Vice-President Filip will be ready, followed by President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. I listened closely to the representatives of the TOP 09 and ODS and almost the entire Saturday of the performance of individual representatives of the new ODS. And, you know, it's a terrible shame that the newly elected ODS chairman here is talking about political culture. Let's look a few months back at what the former government coalition has done with the political culture in our country headed by Prime Minister Kalousek. Let's remember that. [[Laughs and remarks from Members on the right.]] With the de facto Prime Minister - I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And we, as non-politicals, when I use the expression of President Fiala, made it clear before the elections that the first step we will take is that we will quickly submit laws from the Department of Reconstruction of the State. I, my dear friends, have done a brief analysis this morning, which one of us signed up for these bills, whose quality we can discuss. We have been discussing this very much today at our club and, of course, most of the proposals that are on the table are not entirely ideal and it is only about moving forward so that, in the legislative process, we can make them compatible with the rule of law of our Republic and gradually bring them to life. But the main problem is - I don't want to be personal right now, but colleagues from the two parties who spoke before me have talked about these empty floscules for ten years and never really wanted to accept them. And we promised our constituents that we would pass the law and do our best to get them to work. Of course, there is the condition of the President, but the media shortcut, which was made mainly by colleagues, through Mr Kalousek, is a very nice media shortcut, but the adoption of the Service Act has absolutely nothing to do with the illustration law. The Lust Law is in effect. And I looked over the weekend at the presentation of these matters, and I was surprised that lawyers and former Vice-Presidents of the ODS said that, in fact, by - and today Mr Kalousek repeated it - by adopting a service law, we were de facto repealing the rendering law. I haven't seen it on the table yet, or maybe it's somewhere along the way, but I haven't seen it yet, some sort of standard or motion to abolish the rendering law. So I think this debate at this point is premature. About my analysis. My dear friends, try to guess who's the most involved. Numbers: Social Democracy 38 out of 50, YES 42 out of 47, KSČM 22 out of 33, ODS 8 out of 16, Dawn 11 out of 14, KDU 12 out of 14 - and behold! TOP 09, friends, 26 out of 26. So I don't understand this approach you're presenting here today. [[10.20 hours]] I'd like to ask you, let's start working normally. Let's let these things, these bills, go on, and then, within some reasonable time, let's all try to do the best we can to fix this in cooperation with both the State Reconstruction and the SAO and others who want to participate in this, so that these standards are of good quality and can start working so that we can finally adopt these laws after ten years of your debates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u7	Vice-President Filip has the floor. President Kalousek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u8	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, good morning. Allow me to comment outside the agenda on the debate that is putting forward our agenda. Firstly, I am one of those who did not have to join any Reconstruction of the State, because I have continuously fulfilled those requirements in my parliamentary mandate since I joined the highest policy, the Act on referendum, the Act on the SAO, in much better quality than what is being presented. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I think I have worked on it long enough. As for the amendment of the Constitution, it was me who proposed not for myself here, but for the whole KSČM club at least the creation of a constitutional commission of the Chamber of Deputies, which will deal with it, and we will not be doing something here by the salami method that is really to be done not for a single term, but for a much longer period of time. I must correct my fellow speakers at least in the fact that not most of the Chamber of Deputies can convene a meeting, as my colleague said, the chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek club, but a minority is sufficient. 40 signatures are enough for that, and we have a meeting here. For 50 signatures, we have a meeting about distrusting the government. Even with the 50 signatures, we don't even vote on the program. So let's say it. Like my colleague, ODS President, Professor Fiala, whom I otherwise respect and congratulate him on being elected political party chairman, but I must draw his attention to one thing that he has moved here. From him as a political scientist and theoretician of these things I would very much expect him to stick to what is actually in the letter of the law. He set an example here with a driver who committed a misdemeanor and who we'd rather replace as a driver. All I'm saying is that the Czech Illustration Act is not about what anyone was doing. It's just about who's registered, and there's nothing about who's been doing it. As an attorney in the '90s, I represented such disputes in 11 cases. I won at eight, once recommended to my client to give up because he couldn't win the dispute, and I lost the dispute twice because the client disobeyed my good advice so he wouldn't judge. I'm just saying that my experience is exactly - and I'm going to say the one case I won - that whoever was registered because he was followed by 1992 as a holder of the Czechoslovak state secret, a patent emerging in the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, which later the government of Václav Klaus sold to the United States of America, including the company. one company in the United States, and so we lost the patent, and we lost the use of patent rights from a drug that's inexpensive, but that was the '90s. So I'm just saying, that's the rendering law, too. It's not about who does what. This is about who is where registered, and you really can't read anything about his activities there. After all, I would expect a professor of political science to know more about the Czech legal environment. But I'm going back to our meeting. The way I see it, I will respect the will of the Chamber of Deputies and we will express ourselves - I personally and colleagues from our club - to all bills, but we will not be as helpful as expected, to the reconstruction of the state, because what is presented will not be judged by the name but by the content. Don't be mad at me if I take a proposal about the Supreme Audit Office, it's hard for me, because instead of strengthening the control elements, after the horror we've taken care of here, we're weakening them. And I believe that we must first create an environment where control is even possible. Not as it was after 2010, for example, that everyone here was afraid of the controls, and therefore the operation of control systems, which were at government level and even at Parliament level, was restricted. In this respect, I dare say that I do not see as the main law which calls itself a service law. Finally, it would be easiest if there was one sentence that the 2002 Service Act, adopted by the Chamber of Deputies in that parliamentary term before joining the European Union, took effect, and we changed it. But it wouldn't be the case, it wouldn't have fulfilled the purpose that put both ODS and social democracy and other political parties into it. So let's face it. That is precisely the reason for which the proposal is difficult to understand and for which it will be difficult to take a position at first reading. But, on the other hand, will one of us, after 12 years, be allowed to say, "Yes, the law will not be again"? I am convinced that there will be as much work to be done on it as was done only by the Act on the Conditions of Traffic on Public Communications, which we have then approved with 260 amendments here, and it has not turned out quite well. So in this respect, I think there's a point to the meeting. Someone like that, somebody like that. We will not defend ourselves against this meeting, but do not expect proposals to be judged by who is presenting them with what purpose but what is their content. And the content of some suggestions is really weeping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u9	The next speaker will be Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Member Kalousek. Please. Mr. Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u10	I have listened with admiration to the loyal and touching efforts of President Faltýnek to convince us that this is not at all a condition of the President of the Republic, that it is really crucial to discuss the laws relating, as he said, with the reconstruction of the state. Okay, once again, I'm just gonna repeat the information from open sources. The President of the Republic says he's going to require a negative illustration certificate. The emerging government coalition notes an unsolvable problem, as the chairman of one of these parties is unable to present it. The President of the ANO movement is meeting with the President of the Republic and the President of the Republic says "quick discussion of the service law could be a solution." The Chairman of the ANO movement says "The President informed me that a rapid negotiation of the service law can be a solution to the absence of a negative illustration certificate". Designed Prime Minister Sobotka says "I see it as solvable." These are facts from open sources. That is why this House of the twenty-first meets. And President Faltýnek wants us to believe that this is not the case. Of course, we believe you as much as Andrej never signed anything. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] I agree that Professor Fiala's approach is not entirely accurate. If so, it is even less dangerous than it is. That's not a law for one person. lex Babiš is called that because it's the first, that it's a pilot project. But that through this procedure, this cooperation between two institutions, the President of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies, that is, the majority of it, will cease to apply the rendering law to all ministers. [[10.30 hours]] Some of you say "there's not a word about the law of illustration" and they're right. There's not a word about the rendering law. But with your active cooperation with the President of the Republic, you will not be required to use the craftsmanship certificate from tomorrow. The President of the Republic has made this very clear. That means Lex Babiš is a pilot project. I think that the Chairman of the ANO movement could congratulate himself because there were only two people in modern lawmaking for whom the laws were adopted urgently, and in both cases they were pilot projects. It was Adolf Schwarzenberg in 1947. Because he was a patriot, and he couldn't be removed on the basis of Benešův's decrees, so Lex Schwarzenberg was approved. And it will be Lex Babiš today, January 21, 2014. And just as lex Schwarzenberg was a pilot project for brutal and unconstitutional seizure of property in the next period, lex Babiš opens the door to being a pilot project for occupying other and other aesthetics into the leadership of individual ministries. And that's what this is about. It's nothing else at all. I understand that the Communists have always had a clear view of the law of illustration. I understand the Social Democrats, I totally understand the YES movement, they have the problem encoded in the person of their chairman. But a number of us stopped, and I have to say, some of us are very sorry, the attitude of the People's Party. The People's Party says "we insist that the law of illustration be maintained," yet it is now ready to do - not by negotiation, but by reading today's first reading, you will in fact abolish the rendering law without moving the letter in the rule of law. And you know it. And you know it! You just desperately don't want to hear it said. I'm sorry, it's hypocrisy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u11	Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, will now appear and the President of the Fiala will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, my colleagues have already said something, and I will add something. I think it's absolutely true that we're only here today because of point 5, Lex Babiš, the others are smoke screens. Unfortunately, other opposition politicians are signed there, creating a smokescreen with those who have submitted it. It's not surprising, and I think that these behaviors are seen in our country for decades, hundreds of years, and our ancestors have summed it up in a simple saying: the wolf eats and the goat stays whole. I think we all know where the wolf sits and who represents the goat. And the magic that Mr. President and some of our colleagues in the House have invented: nothing will change, nothing will change at all, there isn't even a letter about the chandeliers, however, although the President requires a negative illustration certificate, it will no longer be necessary. Well, that's magical. Many of you say that we will pass the law at first reading, the law of service. It's just not true. We have mechanisms to approve the law at first reading, but processors would have to propose it and then most could agree with it. And then it would be true. If this had been proposed for discussion under Section 90, we could have approved the service law at first reading today. No one suggested such a thing, which is why I'm going back to the wolf and the goat. President Faltýnek here says: we work, we put it here. Well, I didn't see any signature of an ANO member under item 5, which is a service bill. Neither. What surprised me, however, was that the Prime Minister, at least two future ministers, and also the President of the Chamber of Deputies, were signed there. Last August, there was a vote of confidence in the government of Jiří Rusnok, five out of six law-makers sitting in this hall, and five out of these five expressed confidence in the government of Jiří Rusnok. So the argument that the government is politically differently oriented, therefore it is acting on purpose of the opposition, and therefore it gives a negative opinion on opposition proposals for no good reason, in this case it simply does not apply. It's the government you supported, you support. It's a government whose draft state budget you supported and approved. And look - read the House press 71/1, what this government is writing about your bill. Now I will not use those political arguments in the sense that it is the will of one person or the will of five people or as it is, but there is talk of the quality of this law. I have heard the counterargument that this is not purposeful, because we have already filed it on 23 December, which, of course, was only after the negotiations with Mr. President. That's worse! I heard the argument that we've been working on this for many months, and we've filed it in the last parliamentary term. That's worse! Look at the result of your activity. Your government, supported by you, says the proposal is unconstitutional. I think someone used the concept of legislative asshole, useless. And what do you say? You say-- let's pass through to second reading, we'll rewrite the whole thing. We need 90 days in committee. So what you're saying is that it's just a piece of paper and that there's nothing left of it in the finals. This is not what the opposition is saying, which is said by your supported government, and is signed by the Prime Minister, the future Interior Minister, who is in charge of this, the Foreign Minister and the President of the Chamber of Deputies. What does this indicate, what legislative quality? It shows that such an extensive standard cannot be prepared in the form of a parliamentary proposal. It's complicated, the connection to many other laws is obvious. Twelve years have passed since 2002, and it needs to be subjected to a classic legislative process. We would not object if the new government came quickly and perhaps as the first draft law, with a draft service law, because we really need it. We don't need it because someone in Brussels says you, I won't give you money if you don't have it. We need him for ourselves, we need good officials to be there. I'm sure we agree on that, and we're ready as ODS to rationally and factually debate what it's supposed to look like. But not in this form. You admit it yourself. You're saying we already have a working group and we're already working on the change. So why are we even discussing this tonight? When you rewrite it, we could have waited for you to rewrite it, and then we could have had at least ten days as opposition MPs at first reading, and we could have used those factual comments or our factual support to do what you were doing somewhere secretly in offices, outside the legislative process, you were preparing. And now for the connection. Although I am not a lawyer like some others who have had problems with the law of illustration and with lists, I was not here in 2002 as many who are here for ten, twelve, fourteen years, but I found that in 2002 in addition to the law of service, an accompanying law for service law was adopted. And I think the authors of this novel know that. It is Act No. 309/2002 Coll., which in Art. 47 amends the section of the rendering law. It's not true that if we approved today, we're not changing the rendering law. We are changing it because the accompanying law is valid, it is determined that it is bound by the effectiveness of this service law, and there it is explicitly said that there is no illustration certificate for ministers. So if KDU colleagues, with all due respect, say that it's not true that they don't work with the rendering law, that's it. Take a look at the accompanying law, ask your legislative experts, you will find the connection and you will see that it is true. However, it is clear to us that the majority will approve the agenda, and the majority will pretend to work on the bill as it is presented. Well, I wish that goat didn't really eat her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u13	The next performer will be the President of the ODS Member Fiala, the President of the KDU-ČSL Club will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Filip commended me here as a political scientist, I suppose he did this to weaken my position at the head of the Czech right at the beginning, but he cannot succeed. I want to say another thing. The Lustration Law - and that is explained to make us all realize - does not prevent anyone from doing anything, but defends citizens from people who have failed for one of any reason and because there is a presumption that they can fail again, so here we have the Illustration Law. I think it's simple and quite understandable. You can do anything, but you can't just drive some things and that's right. And if you submit a demonstration certificate, of course you can do it. [[10.40 hours]] President Faltýnek here mentioned our mistakes and the things we did when we were in government. We paid a lot for those mistakes. We've been shown by our constituents. But now we're in a different situation. Now it's a few months after the election, we still don't have a government. You promised a big change, so I don't see any change, and if I do, a change for the worse. And instead of focusing - no, look when you signed a coalition contract. [[voice from the diaper]] We don't have government after three months, there's no change. I wouldn't mind accepting that we're talking about the laws you're making, but we're talking about something else here. Let's review the facts. These are very simple. One. The laws put forward here are presented to cover the one key law that is involved. Two. The law is here because, and I will not anticipate it as President Kalousek, the law is here because one person has problems with presenting a demonstration certificate. And three. It doesn't measure all the same subway. Does it really turn out that we're going to have a minister who hasn't submitted a clerk's certificate? For example, I have presented the illustration certificate and I consider it correct. I don't know why all of a sudden, what's changed is that the ministers won't be presenting a demonstration certificate. Once again, I call on the democratic political parties to reconsider this position. It is a position that will damage political culture in the Czech Republic, and it will be your responsibility in the first place, Prime Minister Sobotka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u15	I am just pointing out that Members need to be approached through me. Thank you. I'll give Mr. Jurečka the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u16	Good morning, Mr President, President, dear colleagues, I would like to think a little bit about why we are having this debate here today in this composition. The Civil Service Act was approved in 2002 and is still shifting its effectiveness. There was the government of Mirek Topolánek, the government of Petr Nečas. Both of these governments put the amendment and the implementation of the Civil Service Act as a major priority. It hasn't happened until today. Both of these governments had a great opportunity to alienate a high-quality amendment to the Civil Service Act, and we did not have to have this debate at all, and we did not have to deal with this situation today. The other thing is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u17	I ask my colleagues left of me to keep their voice down and let the President speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u18	Thank you. The second thing is that if the past coalition, which is now talking so strongly about how important it is to respect democratic principles and the like, so if it were to behave and be able to communicate well with each other and really act democratically, then I and many of us would not be sitting in this House at this moment, because there would be no early elections and we would not have a crisis last year. This needs to be realized, ladies and gentlemen. The current situation, there have been some major untruths. We all know very well that by approving the Civil Service Act, respectively. the press that is being submitted will not change at all at this time, because its effectiveness, the planned effectiveness, shall be - let's say - from 1 January 2015, when the change will manifest itself. So the debates about whether the appointment of a government at this point will make it possible by changing legislation, we know that, in principle, it has no bearing on it at all. Of course, if we are here in a situation where we are all calling for this to be a government based on trust in the Chamber of Deputies, we feel at that moment that this is one of the conditions of the President and we need to be able to deal with it in some way and get the government to come into existence here at all. You can certainly fight a war, but we also need to ask ourselves how long the government will be here without political trust and without the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. I was completely shocked by some of the claims made by my previous speaker, Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club, Miroslav Kalousek, who spoke here about how KDU-ČSL is building on this issue, because when I think of 2006, if memory does not deceive me, and then he was our chairman and was able to think and put together a government that relied on the support of the KSČM, I am quite shocked by it. I would like to add one more thing when it says here that the ministers will not present a demonstration certificate. Even I, although I am in 1981, was asked to document the illustration certificate to the Castle. Of course, the law speaks of who may or may not present it, but I suppose we will all be invited to document the illustration certificate for the President. So much for the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u19	Mr Schwarzenberg is next in line. Please, you have the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u20	Mr President, honourable Members, I am sorry, but I feel that right at the beginning of this House the House is losing its dignity, because the House as the legislature is to ensure that the Constitution, that the laws are respected carefully and that the law really applies to everyone. We begin our activity by lawing a law for one person. It doesn't really matter who. The fact itself defies the principle of law. And we should remember that. Mr Filip here spoke quite thoroughly from his own experience about the bill of illustration. It's one thing the law is, but it's a law that should apply to everyone. Don't let the political class get away with it! I am the resolution of this House that we politicians are above the law! [[appalled?]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we do this, we are leaving the land of the rule of law. We go where we went once, 70 years ago, with a known result. It seems like a small thing to you. I mean, it's just a little clause in the law that we need. The Service Act, yes, I agree, was most necessary. It's been neglected for a long time to legalize. But with forgiveness, even the best wine, if you put a piece of poop in it, it's rotten. Even the best law of service with this small paragraph completely loses its value and we lose our dignity as the House. Thank you very much. [[Applause from Top 09 Members' desks]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u21	Mr. Kováčik, Mr. Kováčik, will be prepared by the President of the ČSSD club Mr. Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. Let me express my conviction that, after dealing with these unpleasant initial birth pains, the Chamber of Deputies will be able to work for the citizens, and let us believe that the government, which may finally come into line, as the voters have decided, will be working for the citizens. I don't feel like it's happening yet. I would like to respond through you, Mr President, to Mr Faltýnek, the Chairman of the ANO Group of Parliament, who, given the shift in work and tasks, did not notice, at least this was what he claimed that he had not noticed the motion to abolish the bill of illustration. There is such a proposal, it has been here for many weeks from the pen of Members and Members of the KSČM Club. And if the Chamber of Deputies were to deal with this proposal at the time it was announced and tabled, perhaps this debate, this debate that is going on here, was completely unnecessary. [[10.50 hours]] I feel that it is this dispute that is going on here, and it is, to a large extent, a dispute not about one person, but, let's say, a systemic dispute, that is to see how much the inspiring relic, the remnant of the early post-November past, that is, the rendering law, which was supposed to be valid for five years and had its reasons - the winners were afraid that something might turn around. Well, today, the winners of the day - where are they? Even with your fears. And there were no twists. As this remnant of that wild time pours water, it takes time, taking energy that would rather be devoted to solving the subject matter and the necessary solutions, the necessary standards, the necessary laws, the necessary decisions that citizens expect from us. I am convinced of this and believe that I am not alone, and I am not even alone as a member of one political party, but that opinion is certainly wider and a number of political scientists and commentators also lean towards it that the validity of five years should have been respected. Maybe extended for another five years, I don't know, maybe the fear of a possible twist was still at that time. But that today, the validity of the rendering law is more a burden, more balls on the foot of Czech democracy than something that should protect it and that should somehow open the way forward. Something we've been talking about. And it's really just about the list, not the action or the attitude. I'm not talking about that, just because it's happened here more than once, that the fact that the rendering law is contrary to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms is true. That's just the way it is. There are two categories of citizens here, and some of us feel it on our own. I think that's the way it is, just like that. That the European institutions were also not completely enthusiastic about this solution, which appeared in the Czech legal order, and they closed their eyes just because it was meant to have a limited and temporary validity. And that these are things that belong to the past. I think it is time for real, which is why we have repeatedly put forward the proposal that it is time to cancel it. It is exhausted, it is consumed for the purposes for which it was approved by the winners at that time. Let's cancel the timely purpose-driven past battles and past wars that, when it's appropriate, are always pulled out and led, and sometimes just to overshadow some of their own mistakes, so everything goes to the past and goes under this banner of holy fighting for God knows what - now God knows what - justice. Let's go with abolishing this law to focus on real problems. And citizens tell us that, you too, colleagues, if you talk to them, that the Czech Republic has other problems, namely other problems. Especially the unemployment problem. Especially the problem of getting out of the crisis. Especially the problem of how to start the economy. Especially the problem of how to deal with what remains of the recent past are here. And I mean, for example, how to deal with future generations, for example, with the so-called law. Church restitutions. I just feel like right now -- and it's nothing special, I'm not, as I've recently been accused of being on the air, a friend of some business group, and it's not because I want to help someone now, and the less-born government, to help. But let's cancel it so that we can relax our hands and relax our minds for why the citizens have elected us here. And that is the solution to the problems of this Republic. Real problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u23	President of the Social Democracy Club, Mr Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u24	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, have been listening for almost an hour to the statements that the House is losing its dignity, that we are distorting political culture, that we are creating a law for one person. And all because we have tabled an amendment to the Service Act. The same as we presented in the last parliamentary term. Exactly the same. We haven't changed a single paragraph, not a single word. When we came before the House in the last parliamentary term with this proposal, it did not provoke such a reaction. It is precisely because it was not his intention to address the law of illustration or to create a law for one person. We didn't know what the situation was then. I'll tell you why we passed the law. Because the right-wing governments here have been before the House for years asking to postpone the effectiveness of the service law and have promised that they will come up with a completely new law within a few months. It was Topolánkův's government, and those were the words Minister Langer brought back at the time. Then it was Nečasův' government, and the exact same words were made here by Minister Drábek, I remember, I was in this House, and he said, "We have it ready." In a few weeks, there'll be a new service bill for months. And it wasn't true. And when we watched it and watched where work was taking place on the new Service Act, that it was all to be built on the floor plan of the Labour Code, we were not satisfied with this direction and we began to negotiate across the political spectrum and with the non-profit sector and with people who were interested in this issue. We've created our amendment to the Service Act, and we've filed it. Since the House dissolved before the legislative process could be completed, we logically did what we thought was right after the establishment of the new House and put forward the same identical proposal again. And if we're talking here about this law changing the law of illustration, and we're talking about the fact that, if this amendment is adopted, the rendering law will not apply to government ministers, then I would like to say to you, honourable colleagues, that the House has already attended this debate in 2002. This has already been resolved and was passed in 2002 by a law that said that the rendering law would not apply to ministers. And do you know who voted in favour of it then? The then coalition of the ČSSD, the Union of Freedom and the KDU-ČSL. But then the KDU-ČSL did not represent those Members who are sitting here today. At that time KDU-ČSL represented, for example, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. And do you know how he voted then? I have a record of the vote. The vote on this was held on 12 March 2002 at 16.25 a.m. on the absence of the illustration law on government ministers. Mr Kalousek then voted in favour of this law as a KDU-ČSL Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u25	Now, I would ask Vice-President Filip to represent me, because I am the next one to sign in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u26	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The words will be taken by the President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u27	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not have acted if my name had not fallen from the mouth of one of the speakers. And since I have that word, I'm gonna take it a little wide. A colleague of Kalousek argued here by some kind of weakening of the position of the Chamber of Deputies towards the President of the Republic. Of course, as President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would not be pleased with such a thing if it were something new. However, if I look back, I will remember the question of the Treaty of Lisbon, when the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of Parliament clearly ratified the Treaty of Lisbon and the President of the Republic refused to sign. Instead of having a major dispute with the President of the Republic, the government then negotiated an amendment, which it then voted for. And I ask: wasn't this founding a certain tradition and strengthening the role of the President of the Republic? And if so, who's to blame? Certainly not the Chamber of Deputies, but the then government coalition. And I think it's incomparable to the situation that's here today. So much for margo remarks about weakening the Chamber of Deputies. If we are blamed for the quality of the legislative process here, of course it can be different and different quality. However, if it is criticized that the law will be rewritten or supplemented in some fundamental way in the second reading, it is also nothing new. I even remember the case where the Senate law came in and there was only a title left of the law, everything else was supplied by the government coalition - not the present one, the last one. So it's really good to have a historical memory. The problem is that we have been here in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time and from time to time we lack historical memory. So, in the interests of fairness, I would really appeal to the argument not to use purposefully, but to remember how we voted here and how we acted in the past when we argue and try to get support for our position. This will certainly benefit the atmosphere in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister. My colleague Gazdík is another registered with priority rights. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u29	Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. A representative of the ANO movement has made it clear here that the law has been passed and started to work in the House. Yes, the Civil Service Act is a key law of this term, but the facts are a little different. The law was presented by representatives of social democracy as one political party. Is it a good thing that the law, which is key to this parliamentary term and which aims at depoliticizing the administration, presents one political party without any further discussion with the opposition, without any discussion that would lead to it? The law cannot be functional, and even its translators know that today. And you yourself will try to completely redo the law so that from the skeleton that has been presented here and which will probably pass through the first reading today, there is no stone left on the stone. There are almost no benefits for officials in the law and there is no financial cover for them. Even the future coalition does not know what money it will take and what benefits officials will have and what political independence will actually give them. We're all gonna want to redo it. We are also creating a new essential elite. You said you wouldn't be like politicians. You say that, and the President demands that ministers be subject to certain expertise, and that is why he will be talking to the various candidates for ministers these days. And one of the specifics of the minister, which has so far been in force, and that the minister had to present a clean illustration certificate, is not going to be valid from now on. I don't know if that's a moral attitude. And I am most sorry especially for KDU-ČSL members, when in the past, StB was followed and persecuted by Christians and church representatives. Finally, I would appreciate Mr Kováčik's position as President of the KSČM Group. At least it doesn't cover it with the reconstruction of the state or the godly objectives, but frankly, it says: it's about illustrations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u30	Vice-President Bělobrádek, followed by President Stanjura and I presume that President Kalousek is also reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u31	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues, I would only have two comments. The first concerns that indeed the first reading of the Civil Service Act does not change in any way the situation relating to the illustration certificate of ministers. In the event that it is illegal for a minister to be appointed without a negative illustration certificate, then it must be said that this is the case, because this situation, if it passes this proposal first reading, will not change the effectiveness of the Illustration Act nor the applicable but ineffective Civil Service Act, as it was approved years ago. The second thing is clear. It's Mr. President's condition. And we have two choices: respect her or disrespect her. In case we don't respect her, we'll continue to be ruled by Prime Minister Rusnok's government. And if that's what we want, then we need to realize that whoever doesn't vote in favour of the proposal at first reading of this law just says it's better for the Rusnokův government to continue to rule here, even though there's a majority. So I think it's pretty clear. The condition is here and we have two options - either we fail to meet it and the situation that is here will continue, or we will fulfill it with the fact that the approval at first reading is one thing, the final form is the second thing, and from when it becomes effective, it is the third thing. This means at least there will be a few months when a minister may be appointed without a negative illustration certificate, but it will certainly not be based on the effectiveness of the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u32	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Stanjura. Mr Kalousek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u33	I am sorry, Mr President, but I have to respond to some of the speeches. Although I'm much younger than you, I've been here a lot shorter, so I'm sorry, I don't remember the 2002 parliamentary debate. But each of us can get high. I mean, the ODS was against it then, it's against today, and it'll be tomorrow and the day after tomorrow if someone proposes a change in the rendering law. Yes, we are prepared to compromise with efficiency, if this is still true for 22 years, so that those aesthebians who were full-time in 1980 cannot serve in the public service, so that such a law and such a compromise are ready to support. The argument "you did something wrong, so we'll do it too and be quiet and don't criticize us" may be, but I don't think she's happy. I think we can admit that we have sometimes made mistakes both in procedure and in content. Whoever doesn't do anything, doesn't mess up anything. We've said it more than once, we won't say it every time. But your argument is exactly this one, the kind of kid: you broke the window, so now I'm gonna break the window and you're not gonna criticize me for the broken window. Because you're right, your proposal here didn't arouse any emotion because it didn't deal with the way the government's proposal wasn't discussed by the pre-past government. I said once today, and I will try to correct Mr Vice-Bělobrádek of the Chamber of Deputies, we will not approve anything at first reading today, at most if the programme is approved, we will vote on the commandment of the text which you yourself say you will rewrite to the committees. If you'd like to approve, you should have suggested it. So please let's tell each other the truth. We're not gonna pass the law at first reading, it's not designed that way. We will vote to the max on the commandments of the various committees. So if we want to use historical memory, let's say it all. I am glad that you repeated who voted in favour of this in 2002, it was such a strange time when one coalition was paper and the other, actually no, it was 101:99, I apologize, but I think you must appreciate the consistency of our views. We were saying the same thing we're saying today, and we're going to say it again. Because it is not only the employees of StB, the Minister may also be a member of the People's Militia or a member of the ÚV KSČ or the Regional Committee of the KSČ. We experienced this in the Moravian-Silesian region, when the secretaries of the Regional Committee of the KSČ joined as deputy chieftains. Unfortunately, the rendering law does not apply there, because it is not the governing body of the state administration. So let's not narrow the debate on the illustration law to just St.B.'s coworkers. The circle of people to whom this company has decided not to serve the state because they have somehow failed in the previous regime is much wider. It's not a conviction. Just don't forget the letters of the rendering law in front of those St.B. coworkers. Or do you really want to, and you don't care if a member of the People's Militia or a high-ranking KSČ before 1989 will be in the ministerial chair? Well, we don't care. And if you open that door once, it's open for everyone, even for the communists, even for the militiamen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u34	President Kalousek has the floor. After that, Vice-President Bělobrádek, who is the last of those who avi... It's not the last one. Mr. Fiala will be the last one so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u35	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna be brief because I'm doing my third act. I just don't believe you don't want to understand. I think you understand, you just want to cloud it. The government coalition simply agreed with the President of the Republic that if this text goes through to second reading, the ministers would no longer have to submit a demonstration certificate. Babiš will be the first precedent. Then there's no reason to ask anyone else. That's all this is about. This means, without changing the letter, by the agreement of these two constitutional institutions, the President of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies, the conditions for the appointment of ministers will change substantially. I can't believe you don't want to understand. You just don't want it to be called. From this point of view, I must say that there are much more understandable communists who are very clear about what they are up to. And for you, even if it's the same thing, you're trying to hide it for something else. I am fascinated by the speech or the degree of pragmatism of President Bělobrádek. He says it's a condition of the President of the Republic that if we don't do it, then Rusnokův's government will continue to be here. If the President of the Republic wanted the ladies here to dance a little bit and the Cossack gentlemen, he'd probably say the same thing. So if we don't dance, then Rusnokův's government will still be here, which is why any conditions of the President of the Republic need to be met. But thus we surrender the constitutional powers of the Chamber of Deputies to the Castle! That is exactly what this Chamber of Deputies must defend! Please, nicely, I understand that a measure of pragmatism belongs in politics, but this is no longer pragmatism. It's just passivity, servitude to the end just so I can be appointed tomorrow. And a brief reply from Mr Sklenák. Of course, I remember the 2002 vote well, as a number of other votes that I would rather not have, because in our political career, we are not all proud of every vote we have made. And the hypocrisy of the People's Party, in whose colors I voted at the time, the hypocrisy of the past was one of the reasons why many of us left the party in 2009 and set up another entity where something like this is simply not done. And for a while, I believed that with the party's new political representation, this old know-how had disappeared. It seems that know-how is stronger than personality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u36	Vice-President Bělobrádek. It is followed by President Fiala and so far the last President Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, it can only be repeated that even the previous coalition has not always rejected everything, it has finally been said here, Mr President - amnesty, etc. As for what has not been said here and what I would like to highlight here. KDU-ČSL is against abolishing the rendering law, will not vote for the abolition of the rendering law. It's a very clear position. I repeat and thank you for your comment, I am a newcomer in the House, if we bring this bill of the Civil Service Act or amendment to committees, there is no doubt that the conditions that are in the illustration law will not change, i.e. even the effectiveness that would have been after the approval of the new Civil Service Act would have changed nothing, i.e. It's not like that. I certainly wouldn't want to let the fact that we're fulfilling any condition. I think it's very funny, but it's not realistic. I actually see two options: yes, Rusnokův's government can continue here, maybe it can go on for an unlimited period of time, or it will end. That's two choices. I think that precisely by ordering the Civil Service Act to committees, nothing changes in our legal order. If that's the case, I don't really understand. And I think if that happens, it's not that big of a deal. On the contrary, we will have this proposal for committees, it will be discussed and then there can be a real debate on whether this fundamental standard actually applies as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u38	Chairman Fiala has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole debate has only confirmed me that my driver's license approach is absolutely accurate. Mr. Babiš may be a good driver, I don't know, but he lacks driver's license. Everything you're organizing here is just so he can drive without a driver's license, and that's just wrong. But you're right about one thing. The rules of the game are determined not by you, but determined by the new personalist of the government, who is the President. And as a personalist, the president invites individual ministers to interview and sets different conditions, but his terms. And if the general rules don't suit him, he'll give you instructions on how to break them. I understand this, I understand Mr. President, because he's been doing it for a while. What I don't understand is that you're taking it. All you're doing is weakening parliamentary democracy, and you're taking a lot of responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u40	Chairman Schwarzenberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, some 700 years ago, so long ago, one London judge condemned the successor of the English throne, so-called. Black Prince, Black Prince. This was a breakthrough in the mother of democracy to the rule of law, which then took a long time for it to be fully realized, but it was stipulated that the family member and successor of the throne were also under the law and the court. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going the other way around. We are taking a stand before the wishes of the head of state, and this law states that the members of the government are above the law that applies to everyone else. This is our progress in democracy. Please think about what you're doing here. That, for pragmatic reasons, we are denying all the principles of a legal democratic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u42	And the President of the Dawn Club, Mr. Fiala, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u43	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, let me also say a few words about the Civil Service Act. This bill has been in the Chamber of Deputies for 20 years. I guess we've all wondered why he hasn't discussed himself in 20 years. Well, he didn't discuss it because any government that's been here for the last 20 years would downgrade the terms and make it worse to control the state administration. In fact, no government that was here really wanted this civil servant service bill to be passed. We've decided we want to start discussing him. That we want to start discussing him, and we don't care if it's today or in a fortnight or a week or a month. And we have reservations about him. We have many reservations about him. But we still think it's good to start discussing it. We will put our reservations in the amendments that we will make here at second reading, and we will decide, depending on the change in this law, whether we will vote on it and how we will vote on it, on the law as a whole, at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-000-999.u44	I thank President Fial and, given that I do not have any further requests to speak with priority rights, we have no choice but to vote on the draft of the entire agenda as submitted to you in writing. I'm gonna wait a little longer, and I'm gonna give room for my colleagues from the lobby to come to the conference room. I've got an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. I ask you to re-enlist with your cards, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, I will begin the vote. We will therefore vote on who agrees with the proposal for the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 2, registered is 175, for 123, versus 38. I'm saying we've approved the agenda. Before we go any further, I was excused by Mr Chovanec, who apologizes for family reasons from 12 o'clock. Since we've approved the agenda, I'm opening item number
