ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I would like to inform you that in a few moments Mr. Miloš Zeman will be visiting our meeting hall of the President of the Republic. [[The present ones have risen in the hall. At the sound of the fanfare, Miloš Zeman enters the meeting hall of the President of the Republic.]] Dear guests, allow me to welcome Mr Miloš Zeman's President of the Republic among us and give him that word. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-000-999.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members of Parliament, I come before you in the context of the negotiation of the Staff Law to fulfil my commitment to the presidential campaign, which included, among other things, two points. Firstly, that I will not overuse the veto rights, and secondly, where I decide to exercise this right, I will inform the Chamber of Deputies in time and in advance of my reasons, of my arguments, but also of my proposals on how to address this problem. I would like to say that during the first half-year of my term of office, I have exercised the veto right only once, namely in the case of a legislative asshole, and the law I vetoed was then rejected by all Members present, except for one who misjudged the button. Now, of course, I have a more difficult situation. As far as the service law is concerned, before I speak to it, allow me to correct some - as my predecessor would have said - a deep but really deep misunderstanding, or, if I am to quote Saturnin, to set fairy tales straight. The first such misunderstanding was Mr Bartošek's claim that I had reservations about the existence of political representatives earlier and not until now. I completely understand that Mr Bartošek does not read the Czech newspapers, and I fully agree with him because it is the best way to maintain mental health. For if he had read them, he would have learned that I had expressed these reservations two months ago in the Journal of Law, and Minister Dienstbier, who apparently does not worry about his mental health, responded to them in a television appearance when he criticized my negative attitude towards the existence of political representatives. I believe that my colleague Bartošek will be satisfied with this explanation, and if not, just find the archive of the quoted journal. The second objection that was made was that there were political Deputys in my government as well. By the way, Václav Moravec also took over this objection if you have seen his Sunday Questions, and Mr Chvojka also expressed this objection. I do not wish to argue with Václav Moravec - even because my friend Pavel Dostál once said that he was not discussing the housekeeper - but I would like to very friendlyly explain to Mr Chvojka that he is wrong by your means, Madam Vice-President. Indeed, there were no political representatives in my government. When you read the wording of the Service Act, the political deputy is defined in Section 174, whereas the Deputy Professor, who is referred to as the person responsible for the management of the Department of the Ministry, is defined in Section 55. [[15.10 hours]] All my Deputys were responsible for a particular section or activity of the individual ministry, including here sitting Jan Mládek, who was also the victim of the uninformed Václav Moravec and who can confirm that he was, of course, not a political deputy at the Ministry of Finance, but an expert deputy. [[He's turning to the minister.]] By the way, if we define political Deputys as those who are members of a political party, it logically follows that professional Deputys can only and only be non-partisans, which would lead to logical discrimination against political party members. With deep respect, sadness, friendship, I remember one non-party Deputy Minister of Finance, Eduard Janota, who was probably the best Deputy Minister of Finance. But it is a trivial mistake - the political deputy is one who is a member of the political party - that can only happen to Czech journalists. I can therefore prove that all the Deputy Ministers of my Government have dealt with professional issues at the ministries, and none of them have been an ex-definitione political deputy. I therefore consider that the comments have been settled and allow myself to move on to the substance of the matter. I studied with interest the discussion of the Service Act and with one exception, which was just them political deputy, I did not interfere with them because it belonged exclusively to the House and not to the President of the Republic. I have met with strong statements such as that the Directorate-General of State Service is an inexhaustible condition for me to find out a week later that this condition is very out of line. I have met with statements about blackmail, surrender, and a useful compromise, and technically, surrender can be issued as a compromise. And yet I did not consider it my right, the less it is my duty to intervene in these discussions. I am only doing so now, and I am doing so in sufficient time when the second reading of the Service Act is under way, in which amendments can be tabled. I confess that I was somewhat surprised by solo events in the preparation of the Service Act. Every minister who wants to enforce any law is constantly dealing with both government and opposition parties' experts, trying to smooth the edges, trying to agree a genuine compromise, not surrender, and then has the hope of passing through the Chamber of Deputies. If this bill is being prepared in a splendid isolation, it can be no wonder that his partners will then put this bill on his head. However, the point is that the government has committed itself to depoliticizing the state administration in its programming declaration. The same commitment was contained in the coalition treaty, and I am of the opinion that promises or commitments are to be fulfilled. I believe that this promise has not been fulfilled. I believe that the proposed law is not only a depoliticisation of the state administration but, on the contrary, an enhanced policy, and I will try very briefly to make the arguments that led me to this. kupodivu, the basic argument is not the abolition of the General Directorate of State Services. I know that this model exists, for example, in the UK, partly in France. On the other hand, the model contained in this law exists not only in Bulgaria, which could lead to inappropriate ironic comments, but also in some Baltic countries, and it is something I would normally call second best. If this institution is transferred to the Ministry of the Interior instead of the General Directorate of State Services, it is not my fundamental objection to the Service Act under the same circumstances. I may differ from those who see the fundamental reason for their opposition, whether it be trade unions, whether it be Transparents International, whether it be the State Reconstruction Initiative, whether it be political scientists, when Professor Vladimíra Dvořáková used the sexual term when she called this law a castration of the original intention of depoliticizing the state administration. I don't see a strange problem yet. After all, it is a bit bizarre, because the Deputy Minister of the Interior responsible for this reform of the state administration or the implementation of the service law should de facto serve as Director General. Once again, he should be appointed by the government. And the bizarre thing is that the Deputy Minister of any kind is not appointed by this minister, but is appointed by the government. It's like you're scratching your left hand behind your right ear. But where does the real politicization of the state administration begin? It starts in paragraphs 53 and 55. And I believe that you have studied these paragraphs thoroughly. Some Members, such as Mr Huml or Mr Sobotka, argued that the Minister could not come to the Ministry and marry only a secretary and chauffeur that the Minister had to have a team. And I totally agree with that. But how does this team come into being? [[15.20 hours]] But how does this team come into being? Section 53 states: The Secretary of State shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the relevant Minister. I cannot imagine a masochist minister who, as a candidate for a state secretary, would suggest a person, to put it mildly related, and thus politically influenced in that sense, which is not much related to the depoliticisation of the state administration. And I can't imagine a government that wouldn't agree with such a state secretary unless the minister suggested Pepek Vyskoč. And it wasn't enough. They ordered the children to pray as Your Majesty's executioner wished, which leads me to Section 55. Section 55 relates to the selection of specialised Deputys. If you read it, you will find that this selection is made by a four-member committee, two of whose members are appointed by the relevant minister and two other members will be appointed by the Secretary of State. What a wonderful depoliticization of the government! We are therefore at risk of being under strong political influence by both the State secretaries and the experts responsible for the management of the section and of not having a chance of success without this political influence. You know, I confess that to some extent I understand the objection that the original wording of the law could have led to the concrete of the so-called clerk's nobility. I merely object to the fact that there is an opposite extreme here, namely to concrete the political nobility with the only difference that sometimes with the change of government or even just with the change of the minister will pour fresh concrete into this political nobility, the dramatis personae will change, but the game will continue. And now I'm moving on to my basic objection. I would bite down on all this, but then it follows § 174, which says that every minister has the right to two political representatives, without being defined, really defined, the purpose of their work. And this paragraph is the reason for my possible veto. Let's discuss what the political deputy means. The only reason I heard was that he was representing his minister in the government or in other negotiations. Well, that's great. So we have two vice-premieres in the government, and what would happen if we defined the Vice Prime Minister's office and its work as representing the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister goes on vacation, he's sick and so on. In fact, one vice prime minister is in charge of finance, second scientific research and technological development, i.e. he is a deputy premiere, not a political deputy prime minister. By the way, when is the deputy supposed to come to the government? If his minister is ill when he is on vacation or on a foreign business trip. As far as illness is concerned, as I am looking at the government, it looks quite healthy and I am afraid, or rather, I am looking forward to the fact that it is not facing an epidemic. As far as vacations are concerned, the government usually announces collective leave, as has happened recently. And if it is a matter of foreign travel, if a really important point is being discussed, then either the Minister will postpone the trip, or, on the contrary, he will request a transfer of his point to the time when he will be on the government. The Minister can, of course, send with the same right as the political deputy to the government and the deputy professor, with the fact that neither of them, of course, have the right to vote. However, the difference is clear here. Most or a large part of the laws go through commentary proceedings, and even the government gets conflicted. Imagine a political deputy who doesn't know anything about the matter, hearing the objections of individual ministers, desperately wandering around the meeting room, running out of this room with a phone on his ear and asking how to respond to the objections. You can say that the same can be true of the Minister, who, of course, has to be pre-filed. But by whom? Well, it's the expert deputy who's responsible for the particular issue. I have no objection to the expansion of the number of deputy professors. As far as I know, at the Ministry, this number is between four and seven. I myself recommended that, for example, the Ministry of Industry and Trade be the Director of Construction, because I think that construction is in a deep crisis and that it would be useful for this Deputy to exist. So my argument doesn't go against the number of professional deputy. My argument isn't even against the coalition deputy. After all, Minister Babiš accepted the ODS nominee Mr Pros, but not because he was the ODS nominee, but because he was an expert. And the same is true, of course - sorry, not ODS, very sorry, nominator ČSSD. Sometimes those sides get a little confused. [[Laughing in the hall, applause.]] But it's certainly not because they have similar problems. So I'll try to put on a more conciliatory tone. For a very long time, I have been looking for a reason for Section 174, which means a paragraph that says that each minister has the right to two political deputys. I found the only reason to fight unemployment. Creating new jobs in the number of roughly thirty, by the way, with a salary from which you would create jobs for ten times the people who would actually work. [[15.30 hours]] If these people have nothing to do but represent their boss, which can be handled calmly and better by the expert deputy, then they will use their time for all kinds of intrigue, lobbying, which is also highlighted by the recent Security and Information Services report. It's not just that. As in economic theory, there is a term called. wage contagion, there may be a functional disease. This means that these politically doing nothing to the Deputys will try to apply by influencing, for example, the appointment of sectional bosses, directors, senior officials, etc. They probably won't go to the level of officials anymore because their salary is roughly comparable to the average salary in the national economy. So I tried to make a positive solution, but it doesn't really seem like a fight against unemployment to me. I even remembered a story by Ivan Vyskočil from the collection of Bones, which says: It is good that we have normal primary schools and auxiliary elementary schools. But why don't we move on? Why don't we have normal high schools and auxiliary high schools, and why don't we have normal high schools and auxiliary colleges? And why isn't there a rotation of the graduates of these schools? And when I saw Ivan Vyskočil out in the Futurum Theatre in totalitarian times, he thought and said, but it's actually happening. Today we will have two vice-ministers at each ministry, and it can lead to the fact that in time we will also have political section bosses, political chief executives, etc., in other words, graduates of auxiliary schools. Well, in conclusion, let me tell you the unpleasant truth. I wondered why this proposal was tabled. And despite all the deliberation I have found no other explanation than that which is expressed by the proverb: There are many slugs and little kale. It is the political parties whose electoral results were not quite satisfactory, that need to employ their worthy and, above all, loyal ones, that I would place great emphasis on, officials, well, that, therefore, if there are thirty well-paid jobs that do not require a workload, the political nobility that is created in this way will satisfy the disdained ambitions of those who have not gotten into professional positions. And I repeat once again, there's nothing against the number of specialized deputys. The only problem is that even the minister can have a certain degree of self-criticism, and he doesn't want to have an active asshole in politics who would run some section and cause a far greater disaster than if the idiot hadn't done anything. So, yes, I found the only reason, the only real reason for § 174: Let's employ people whose expertise is not sufficient to become Vice-Presidents. But there's a beautiful sentence in Švejk: he's an asshole, but he can do any kind of civil service. Let's keep these people busy on the level of the political deputy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am approaching, and I know that you are pleased to do so, at the end of your speech, and I would like to conclude by quoting Jan Hamáček, President of the Chamber of Deputies, who stated in his opening speech that the House should be a workshop. Without ever realizing it, I said exactly the same sentence in 1996 when I joined this office. You are to discuss a bill which, if I am not to say, was prepared behind Parliament's back, was at least prepared outside this Parliament. You lost four months of a completely dilettant proposal, and then you commissioned a task force to prepare one of the most complex laws in three weeks. This law has not gone through qualified discussions in expert committees, let alone the plenary of this House. If the House is to be a workshop, it must form, it must produce. You don't produce anything in this law, you don't even install anything, you don't put the components together. You're just packing. You make the House by voting machine and packing company for this particular bill. And a packer isn't the same as a workshop. I would therefore like to conclude by saying to you that I will not veto the draft service law with my false teeth closed if it is excluded from Section 174. Because I too must seek a compromise that is not a surrender. I know the House can overrule my veto, but I would like to tell you in advance that after consulting lawyers in such a case, I will file a constitutional complaint, because Section 174 has nothing to do with the service law, just as it has nothing to do with counsellors, which, if they have the money, anyone can hire as much as they want. I have the advantage that most of my advisors in the President's Office work for free because it is considered an honor. I am not sure that this is the case with other advisors. And since the Constitutional Court has already issued a judicature to which it condemns the stickers, and this law, to be more precise, this paragraph 174, is clearly such an sticker, because it has absolutely nothing to do with the substance of the service law, I would like to inform you openly in advance of my future action on this matter. [[15.40 hours]] Once again: If an amendment is tabled and adopted excluding Section 174 of this Service Act, we will save and stop talking about savings in public administration and achieve this real savings and, on the one hand, do not create a conflict that I would not want. However, because the president is not a rag on the floor and he is not to follow the drooling finger where the wind of public opinion is blowing - this was followed by one politician who has already been forgotten and we all know how it turned out - I tell you that if it does not happen, I am prepared to file this constitutional complaint for the above reasons. I'd only end up with one more sentence. The old Latins ended their speeches with the words dixi et salvavi anim meam. I am old, but I am not Latin, so let me tell you in Czech: I said and saved my soul. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-000-999.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am interrupting for 20 minutes at the moment. We'll meet again here at 16.05.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-000-999.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will now continue the suspended 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 63 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 27 August 2014. I'm asking you all to re-enlist with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. So far, I have a replacement card number 9, which is held by Mr. Kořenek. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to inform you that on 28 August this year, Mr Miloš Petera gave up on the notarial minutes of the parliamentary mandate. Therefore, some constitutional steps must be taken. One of them is the promise of a new Member. Please, before we continue to calm you down. Thank you.
