ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 49/1997 Coll., on Civil Aviation and amending and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Livning Act), as amended, as amended, and other related laws /German press 47/ - First reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, let me start by presenting my first law and my speech in the Chamber of Deputies. If it's not everything you said, I'm sorry in advance. Again, it's my first performance. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I have the honour to present to you at first reading a draft Civil Aviation Act amending Act No. 49/1997 Coll., on Civil Aviation and amending and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business, the Trade Act, as amended, and other related laws. The draft law under discussion, in particular with regard to the direct use of -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u3	I will ask for peace, especially on the left and in the ranks of the government. The Minister presents his proposal for the first time. I'm begging you for some kind of kindness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u4	In particular, in view of the directly applicable regulations of the European Union and the new contractual instruments of international law, the proposed bill introduces adaptation measures in the field of legislation: firstly, air personnel, i.e. air traffic controllers, second - provision of air navigation services in so-called a single European sky, thirdly, a professional survey of the causes of accidents. That's very important. Fourth, civil aviation security, especially terrorism. Second such a significant point. The draft law specifies and complements the rules governing the operation of commercial air transport in particular by the foreign air carrier. To implement this law. The concept of future regulation, which will result in the harmonisation of the rules on procedures for the performance of individual administrative agendas with a minimum of derogations and exceptions, in particular the removal of specific legal standards excluding the application of the administrative order without establishing any other special procedure. This bill provides for the updating of administrative charges in the civil aviation section by amending the Act on administrative charges. The preparation of this bill was preceded by a long and careful preparation involving consultation with the professional public. The proposed legislation is expected for a long time and its addressees are the administrative authorities which will apply it. In view of the fact that this is a government bill containing, in particular, adaptation measures for a number of major provisions of European Union law, in particular in the field of civil aviation security, which have already entered into force and must therefore be applied in full by the national authorities, I intercede for the discussion of the proposed bill as soon as possible and with your permission to agree at its first reading. I would also like to add that it should be pointed out that the European Commission has indicated that it will soon initiate infringement proceedings in order not to implement the provisions on sanctions of regulations laying down common rules for air traffic flow management. It is a European Commission regulation number 255/2010. Implementation of the provisions on sanctions is ensured by the draft law. Also for this reason, together with the rapporteur of the law Mgr Václav Snopek, CSc, is agreed that it will be required, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to shorten the time limit after the drafting of the bill in committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u5	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Václav Snopek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in my reporting report, I will try to briefly guide you through the entire content of the Government Bill amending Act No. 49/1997 Coll., on Civil Aviation and amending and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business, as amended. The bill was distributed to you as House press number 47 on 3 December last year. The proposed amendment to the law, or draft law, primarily ensures the adaptation of the law of the European Union, i.e. directly applicable European Union rules, and that is the regulation. Furthermore, the implementation of the international treaties that the Czech Republic has adopted. In the field of air Union law, new regulations have been adopted or amended in recent years by the existing regulations, and several existing directives have been repealed and replaced by a regulation. Further in the field of so-called the single European sky has been negotiated and agreed on the establishment of a Central European functional airspace block. These shifts in Union and international law have created the need for more extensive adjustments in the Civil Aviation Act, in particular in the following areas: Firstly, it is the regulation of air personnel relating to air traffic controllers. This Act removes duplications in the Civil Aviation Act in the field of aviation personnel' regulation with regard to Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1). Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). For this reason, the draft law repeals the duplication of legislation in the Civil Aviation Act, which was ensured by the proper transposition of Directive 206/23/EC by the Community before that directly applicable regulation at European Union level, comprehensively regulated the education and testing of the selected group of air personnel, namely air traffic controllers and air traffic controllers in training, i.e. pupils. Two. Regulation on the provision of air navigation services in so-called a single European sky. The draft law implements Commission Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of 18 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 255/2010 laying down common rules on air traffic management - and here is an important provision including new sanctions, and an agreement to establish a Central European functional airspace block. For these, it is necessary to define closer relations and cooperation in the provision of cross-border air navigation services and the exercise of State control in such cases. [[14.40 hours]] Three. Regulation of professional security of the causes of accidents. In this case, the draft law implements Regulation 996/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation. In this context, the wording of Title No 4 of the Law is being modified, with the fact that the law will continue to contain, on the one hand, provisions which require the application of the said European Union regulation directly, but also needs to be adapted at national level. Furthermore, they concern investigations other than serious incidents, since this investigation does not fall within the scope of Regulation No 996/2010, but is subject to fully national legislation contained in the Civil Aviation Act and the provisions transposing Directive 2003/42 of the European Community. It's an incident report. Four. Civil aviation security legislation, namely terrorism, is reflected in the law in Regulation 300/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community on common rules in the field of civil aviation security. Here, a completely new legislation is proposed in this area and the competent authority is changing in order to ensure more efficient and consistent management of related agendas and, inter alia, to increase the Union requirements, which should be newly in place of the Ministry of Transport by the Civil Aviation Authority, thus responding to new potential threats in the field of civil aviation security. The draft law revises and tightens the area of verification of the reliability of natural persons in unaccompanied access to security restricted areas commonly referred to as SRA, an area which is considered to be one of the greatest shortcomings of existing legislation. These measures will affect the budget of the Czech Republic. In addition to the above adaptation measures, the draft law provides for the addition and refinement of the rules governing the operation of commercial air transport in particular by the foreign air carrier, taking into account the administrative rules and the need to respond to practice. The proposed legislation in this area aims to allow greater flexibility in using the allocation of traffic rights to identify the air carrier on the basis of the required information and monitoring of its presence on the territory of the Czech Republic, in particular for operational and security reasons. Furthermore, following the long-term concept, the proposal contains clarification in the field of administrative proceedings and links to the administrative rules. There is an elimination of unjustified derogations from the administrative order and a precedent for the derogations justified. With regard to the scope of the changes, the proposal and the administrative punishment are revised, especially with regard to the scope of administrative offences, suggesting a more transparent arrangement of administrative offences. In this context, the elements of the facts and the level of sanctions have been revised. In addition to the Civil Aviation Act, the relevant section of the Administrative Charges Act is updated. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has asked the House to discuss it as quickly as possible. That is why, as rapporteur, I will call for a 30-day reduction in committee time in the final word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which one Member has so far signed up. Mr Antonín Seďa, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, the proposed amendment to the Act is a long-term draft and, in particular, an expected amendment to the Civil Aviation Act. The Minister and the rapporteur have mentioned this widely. The selected variant of civil aviation security is determined by the Civil Aviation Authority to verify civil reliability. However, this option is more stringent than required by Union legislation. In addition, it will require increased costs from the state budget and an increase in the number of staff at the Office. I would like to point out that, in particular, regional airports do not agree with the proposed option and encourage the granting of verification of civil reliability to be carried out directly by the entity responsible for ensuring the security and security of civil aviation at the site, in the knowledge of local conditions and beneficiaries. The Act newly designates the Civil Aviation Authority as a national administrative authority, subordinate to the Ministry of Transport, also as the authority of the Member State responsible for coordinating and controlling the implementation of the rules in the civil aviation security section. Protection of civil aviation against terrorism is a particularly important public interest, affecting not only the internal security of the state. The Act regulates, inter alia, the obligation of an airport operator to have an approved airport security programme, which is once again approved by the Civil Aviation Authority at the request of the operator. In the context of extensive changes in the field of administrative criminal law, the ninth part of the law is divided into three heads, with the first head governing civil aviation administration, second state supervision and third administrative offences. Here, there is a revision of the existing facts, offences and administrative offences of legal and business individuals, and there is the introduction of new facts in order to implement directly applicable European Union rules. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the costs incurred in connection with the actions of the Civil Aviation Authority, which are not charged under the Administrative Charges Act, will be reimbursed by way of reimbursement of the costs of administrative proceedings, that is to compensate for the costs actually incurred. Despite a number of positive changes, honourable Members, I have found some less positive provisions in the proposal. For example, in Section 7 (1) (a) (ii) of the Guidelines, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market on the basis of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (1) I would like to point out that this deadline seems too long to me, given the possibility of refusal or recall, and in particular the maintenance of competitiveness and the necessary speed of entry into service of a type of aircraft, although I admit that the law allows this period to be shortened. The petitioner should also clarify the new competence of the Institute for the Expert Examination of the Causes of Accidents, which is the new Section 55c entitled Delegation. This provision may, at the request of a legal person who is competent to ensure that such activities are properly carried out, by identifying the causes of accidents in which persons and incidents have not been killed. The amendment also introduces an obligation for domestic air carriers to develop a plan for assistance to victims of accidents and their relatives, including financial assistance. What I am not particularly pleased about and certainly will not please any manufacturer or service provider in aviation is a substantial increase in administrative fees under the section of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees. In particular, the increase in fees for obtaining a type-certificate or type-approval of aircraft or parts thereof appears problematic. I would like to support the referral of the law to second reading at the end of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, with the fact that it would be appropriate to adjust some of the provisions and administrative fees in the second reading with a view to maintaining the competitiveness of Czech aircraft manufacturers and aircraft operators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u9	Thank you, Mr Seďa. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If no one reports, I will end the general debate and ask the appellant or rapporteur if they want the final word. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond briefly to the three points that have been raised here with regard to Section 7 (1). 5. As regards the time limits for approval, we need to be aware that we are talking about aviation, and these processes require a longer period of time, because there are disastrous consequences at the moment when we forget anything within those approval periods and arrive at the accident afterwards. But we're ready to discuss it, it needs to be considered. As regards the objection or comments on the administrative fees and their increases, I would just like to say that the last administrative fees were set in 2002 and 2004 and the amount of these administrative charges is in no way in line with the current situation. Let's just think about inflation. Increasing aviation fees is a general trend and we should adapt to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u11	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur is still applying for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only propose. I'll ask the House to be released for second reading. I would like to propose a commandment for discussion in the Economic Committee, as a guarantee, to order a motion for discussion in the Committee of Security and to ask the House to shorten the time for discussion by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-007-008.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since the motion for rejection was not made at first reading, we will now consider the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee. I therefore initiate the vote (number 30) on the commandment of this motion to the Economic Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 164 Members present for 135, against none, the proposal was directed to the Economic Committee. Further from the rapporteur's mouth, there was a motion for a commandment to the Security Committee. I am opening the vote (number 31) on the commandment of this motion for discussion to the Security Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 164 Members present for 120, against 17, this proposal was adopted and the bill was ordered by the Security Committee. If no one has another motion for a commandment, there is a proposal from the rapporteur to shorten the deadline for discussion of 30 days. I therefore initiate the vote (number 32) to shorten the time limit for discussion by 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Of the 166 Members present for 132, against 8, the time limit for hearing has been reduced by 30 days. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. This dealt with point 8, which was firmly placed as the first point of the afternoon program, and we get to point number
