ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws /house print 252/ - second reading The Minister of Finance remains at the rapporteur's table and the rapporteur is Mr Rais. However, I ask the Minister of Finance first to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the Government's bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws, which was included for discussion at the second reading at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The draft law is, in particular, a response to the analysis of the state of tax laws following the legislative processes carried out in connection with the recodification of private law, the requirements resulting from the need to fulfil the content of the relevant items of the Government's declaration and the coalition contract, namely the granting of a tax benefit in the form of an increased tax discount on the other and other dependent children and the adoption of restrictions relating to the possibility of applying expenditure in the form of flat rates applied to income from a separate activity. Finally, the necessary settlement with the undetermined parts of the single collection point law. Further amendments are made to the Income Tax Act, in particular in the field of taxation of investment funds, the arrangements related to the proposal for a Child Care Services Act in the child group and the legislative technical specification selected. At the same time, the proposal includes thematically related changes made in the Reserves Act and the Tax Code, where the implementation of some other measures following, in particular, the fight against tax evasion and the extension of the electronicisation of tax administration is further proposed. The efficacy is proposed on 1 January 2015. In order to maintain continuity compared to the situation prior to the recodification of private law, the possibility of applying it for the tax period started in 2014 is proposed for the selected changes. At the first reading of the meeting on 17 July 2014, this law was ordered by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss the Committee on Budgets. At the same time, the deadline for its committee hearing was reduced by 10 days for this proposal. The material was at the 12th meeting of the Budget Committee on 3 September 2014 and at the same time a resolution was issued. 115, which the Committee on Budgets recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this Government bill, as amended by the amendments in this resolution, which I agree with. Finally, I would like to ask you to discuss and support the Government's bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws, including amendments adopted by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as Parliament's press 252/2. I therefore ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Karel Rais, take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u4	Have a good day. I would read here the resolution of the budget committee from the 12th meeting of 3 September on the Government Bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws, it is the House's Press 252. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Mrs Hornochová, Mr Rais's report and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws, the House Press 252, approved, as amended by the amendments, which are basically mentioned under the House Press 252/1, and I was also empowered by the committee to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, which I am doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have several applications. The first enrollment is Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. First priority rights: Mr Fial Members, first Petr, then Radim. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u6	Thank you. Overall, this government proposal, as we have heard, includes more complex changes in income tax and is essentially trying to make a big change in the tax collection system. But if Minister Babiš was just talking here about how he lacks a concept in the tax system, in the previous systems, how he will try to bring it in, there is no clear goal and concept in this, and it is not clear to me or the petitioners where it is going and what the target state will be. I don't just want to talk negative. The proposal contains some positive things, but there are many problematic changes and also hidden dangers. If there are no problematic issues in the proposal that I will be getting to in a moment, then the citizens of the Democrats would certainly like to support a higher tax discount on the other and another child. We are in this regard for the support of families and for a sensible family policy. Of course, we would also vote in favour of the renewal of the tax rebate for working pensioners, which we are proposing in another amendment, but we will not vote in favour of this amendment, which wants to tax pensions, because we see no reason for this and we consider it absurd to punish pensioners who have higher incomes. In our opinion, this is a completely wrong principle and the state is not supposed to favour or disadvantage anyone in this way. But what we consider the worst of this proposal and totally unacceptable for us is the limitation of the flat-rate of some tradesmen. Civil Democrats may not always have acted in the past under the pressure of various economic circumstances, but we want and we will stand on the side of these people and strive to maintain the current form of spending flat-rate businessmen, because, first and foremost, it significantly simplifies the administration, saves entrepreneurs money for accounting, tax advice, and allows them to pursue their business. We are well aware that small businessmen and businessmen have very difficult conditions for their work, and we admire that they are active, are ready to try new things, are struggling with a lot of paperwork, regulation, state controls, and we consider this matter dangerous by removing spending flats. [[10.20 hours]] This step, and this also needs to be realized, will hit especially those who have large expenditures with purchase of input investment. And those aren't the many attorneys mentioned. These are farmers, craftsmen, mechanics and others, i.e. those who do business in agriculture, in forestry and water management, who are craftsmen. It should also be noted that tradesmen do not have some benefits enjoyed by others, they do not have a certain amount of income, they do not qualify for work aids, for severance grants, for limited liability for damages, for paid holidays, they do not receive overtime allowances, they do not have a notice period, they do not have employee benefits. And on top of all that, to the risks they carry, the state changes their business conditions almost every year. The last time they got used to new changes in self-employed people had to get used to since January 2014 and now there is to be another change. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand up for businessmen and entrepreneurs here, and there's nothing selfish about it. I've been an employee my whole life, but I know and I see how these people risk what these people have to do to take care of themselves to make a living and make a living for others. And I think it's absolutely right that the state doesn't complicate their lives, it doesn't burden them with other responsibilities and at least compensates for their risk by simplifying bureaucracy and some advantages, such as spending flats. When I said that I did not see any concept and any objective idea of what the government is presenting here, I really do not understand the systemic logic of the government's actions on this matter when I look at the next steps that the government is doing. On the one hand, the state increases the minimum wage - Minister Babiš also said that he does not know why we have a minimum wage - the government wants to add to the civil servants, retirees, subsidizes the inefficient industries, plans other subsidies for cursarbeit etc., but on the other hand, it takes money and complicates life for small entrepreneurs who create new opportunities that are not worth anything, but take care of themselves, caring for others who also create new jobs that do not rely on the state but create values for society. Then why are we going to complicate these people's lives? Why are we going to be the little advantage that they have and which is absolutely right, and these are spending flats, why are we taking it away from them, and why are we going to change the already complicated environment in which they are moving again? If we wanted to, and I also agree with the Minister of Finance, really better and effective tax collection, then perhaps it would be better to cancel some taxes and cancel those taxes on which the state will receive little or only slightly more than what it costs to collect them. To give an example, this must be an inheritance tax, a real estate tax, etc. But the road to better tax collection cannot be at the expense of someone. After all, honest entrepreneurs cannot be punished for the failure of the state to collect taxes well. Citizen Democrats cannot support the reduction of spending flats for businessmen and cannot support this new attack by the state on tradesmen and small entrepreneurs. In this context, we are proposing an amendment which will be very simple or which is very simple. This amendment proposes the removal of a point relating to the reduction of flat-rate expenditures for businessmen. I think that if you join this amendment of ours, which I will then apply to in a detailed debate, you will significantly improve the overall bad proposal that the Ministry of Finance has come up with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u7	I thank Mr Petr Fial. Now Mr Radim Fiala with priority rights and then duly applied for by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Head of the Dawn Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u8	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say for the Úsvit movement what our view and attitude on the bill on income taxes is. The government coalition has presented us with a package of measures of a social nature, as well as measures that increase the tax burden on businessmen. The dawn of direct democracy welcomes the social measures that are part of this package. We are in favour of increasing the discount on a child, we are in favour of a tax discount on pensioners. However, our movement does not agree with part of the amendment of the law, which increases the tax burden of tradesmen. In our electoral statement, in our electoral programme, there was a point directly before the parliamentary elections, which is called the end of tax increases. Of course, we cannot support this law precisely in order to increase the tax burden on businessmen. These are people who have taken responsibility for themselves, who earn money, and it is not easy for them especially in times of crisis and recession, and now we are going to reload yet another tax increase on them. There's just no place for them to take it anymore, and we're not gonna support it. The only thing that happens is that they either get into the grey zone, the gray economy, or they reduce their work volume, or they get into the social system and the employment offices, because they're just gonna be much more interesting to them to receive social benefits than to have responsibility for themselves, for their family, to make sure they have contracts, to make sure they have jobs to get paid for it. Dear colleagues, it is the right way to look for the means for the right social measures in savings in the management of the state, in economic growth, and not in the pockets of businessmen after six years of crisis. There's nothing there anymore. This will result in a reduction in the collection of this tax for this category of payers and an increase in the number of people registered at the Labour Office. I here in the Úsvit movement come up with an amendment that is very simple, and I will try to justify it now, and then I will sign up only to it in a detailed debate. I quote the amendment: point 41 is deleted. This means that we want the increasing tax burden of the traders to be lifted immediately. The reason is simple, I've already said it in part here, and I don't think there's any need to justify it anymore. But I repeat once again, if we go down the road to tax increases, that path certainly doesn't lead us to fill the revenue of the state budget, because where there's nothing, there's no devil taking it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u9	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club with priority rights before colleague Hovorka. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u10	Thank you. It's still a priority right, even if some colleagues don't like it. I would also like to justify one of the amendments that we tabled. And what I'm saying here is that the government is saying that it will not raise taxes, so apart from the tradesmen's flats mentioned by the President, we have one more case of tax increases in this proposal, and that is investment funds. Let me respond to the explanatory memorandum and to the arguments put forward by the petitioner, respectively. Government. The government says that the current situation in the field of taxation of investment funds is partly out of line with the current trend in international cooperation and the fight against tax evasion, as it fulfils some of the characteristics of harmful tax competition under the corporate tax code adopted by the Council of the EU, and the proposed legislation on taxation of investment funds is aimed at achieving a situation where investments made through investment funds have comparable tax burdens from the investor's position to investments made individually. The petitioner assumes a positive impact on the state budget plus 100 million per year. [[10.30 hours]] I think both of these arguments can be refuted. In particular, it amazes me that the state by law distinguishes the so-called. good and so-called. bad investment, or better and worse. And to my surprise, the better ones are investments of a financial nature, and the worse ones are, for example, investments in housing. If we take an investment fund that focuses on consumption, it will be taxed at 5%, and the investment fund, which will invest resources, for example, in building houses, will be taxed at 19 percent. I'm missing the logic here, and I don't think it should be a legislator who makes a strict distinction between better and worse investments by law. Or do we really think that investing in housing is worse than investing in consumption? I personally do not think so, and yet we set unequal conditions to the detriment of investment in housing. Then there's the interesting thing. The law introduces different conditions depending on how much the investor puts into the fund. If we take another example and say that the fund will invest CZK 50 million and put 50 people with a deposit of one million, it will be taxed 5 percent. If the same activity, the same investment will be made by a fund with ten people of five million in it, it will be taxed by 19 percent. I don't really see any logic here, and I'd like an explanation. Or is it a whip for rich people? Who invests more will pay more than the one who invests less? I really don't understand. I think the effects may be the opposite and that the tax return may eventually be lower. However, I accept that the amount plus or minus is not an amount that would, in any way, significantly jeopardise the implementation of the state budget. But it certainly is an increase in taxes, even though the government says it will not increase taxes. 5 to 19 is just plus 14 percent. And there are two problematic provisions that I was talking about, that means taxatively, or legislatively chosen better and worse investments. Personally, if I were to invest and have the funds available, maybe I'd rather invest than invest in some financial derivatives, I'd rather invest in real estate. But I wouldn't, because I would find that real estate tax is simply higher and the investment will have a lower return thanks to the conditions set by the Czech state. And when we refer to international cooperation and so on, there are countries in the European Union where there are zero percent of taxation. Today, changing the registered office of the investment fund is no problem, it is a very quick question. If we make it from 5 to 19 worse, the effect may be that this money will leave the Czech Republic. We're gonna pretend we have a higher rate, it's gonna be better, but the effect is gonna be bad. I would also like to mention § 247a, these are fines or fines up to 500,000. The reasoning in the explanatory memorandum, on the one hand, I would say that it is quite logical in some cases. But a half-million-dollar fine for failing to report - I know cases where even financial authorities resist electronic filing. Very often they resist when they don't want it electronically to knock off a copy at all. And I know a case where the company normally paid tax on dependent activities and somewhere lost the form on which they claim it once a year. This can happen to everyone, but it was not one day late payment, and the idea that the fine could be up to 500,000 is disproportionately harsh to me. If it is argued to combat tax evasion, this is a relevant argument, but then it would be a good fine to follow up on the turnover of the company. There is a difference when a small company with a turnover of 3 million fails to fulfil its obligation, and there we cannot talk about any major tax evasions, and it gets 500,000, and something else when someone actually organizes tax evasions and it's a ten-million-dollar amount. So, personally, I would consider it much more reasonable if we wanted it for those who escape taxes who do not pay it programically and criminally and avoid it being a percentage. I mean, the percentage of sales that the company is showing. I think that would be much fairer. By the way, you all have it in your emails that the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic points out that this was its essential comment, which was not taken into account in the settlement of comments. And again, I don't think it's a coalition versus opposition duel, but it's a normal substantive debate about what that parameter is supposed to look like. And if there is one sum of 500,000, which is probably given up to the height, and there may be an argument that some methodology will be drawn up. But methodology is not a law. There may be problems where many entrepreneurs, especially if they fail to comply with the notification requirement that I may be late to deliver the statement or something, will consider this an unfair attack by the state. However, it is a matter for the government to prepare. I think we need to think about that. It would be good at this point to leave it at 50, as it is today, and to think. We weren't able to propose a percentage rate without the Home Office's apparatus. That's what I don't think is possible from the opposition bench, that it takes a really thorough analysis to make the measure work out for the people it's supposed to be. Very often in the law, we want to deal with some unfairness, and because of a small percentage of people, new obligations fall upon everyone. We shouldn't go on like this. Since there are people who organize tax evasion and benefit from tax evasion, let us focus the measure on them so that, if possible, the honest ones and those who are not really in danger of large tax evasion will avoid it. That's another reservation. I feel that one of those amendments, if I have studied it well, has already been read. But we are making this amendment to keep the existing taxation of investment funds. I think that's fair. We think, therefore, that the government will keep what it has promised not to raise taxes, even though I repeat again that the amount is not very high. However, the effect of exiting investment funds is clearly at risk. In this debate, we avoided the question of how we had the dispute, whether taxes were increasing or not increasing taxes on dependent activities and personal taxes. Although I was excused from the budget committee's meeting, I have reports from those who participated in it that, even on the Deputy Minister's budget committee, she admitted that if there had not been a delay and that the income tax on individuals and dependent activities had remained the same since 1 January that the state budget would have collected about 15 billion less or 14.5 billion less. That means 14.5 billion more would be left to those who pay the tax. So here we see three tax increases in this proposal. First, this money, which the taxpayers could have saved, and it is primarily the employees. Secondly, the tax increase back to 19 for some investment funds, not for all, but for some. Thirdly, the reduction of flat-rate expenditure on the part of expenditure, particularly for craft trades and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u11	I thank Mr Stanjur. I will ask for further patience from Mr Hovorka, because Mr Antonín Seďa has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, only in relation to what the President of the ODS MP said here, I agree with an increase in income tax to 19 percent for investment funds. But like me, I'm sure all Members, but I assume that the Ministry of Finance has also received a comment from the Association of Investment Funds on Section 17b and Section 21 para. 2 of the law, and I would just like to make sure, as legislator, that their comment, which relates to whether or not these provisions are in conformity with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Whether the Minister could say that they are in line. I'm sure it would calm me down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u13	Thank you, Mr Seďa, for keeping time. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, duly signed up for the debate. Before I give him my word, I'll say I'm sorry. He apologizes for today's meeting by colleague Bohuslav Chalupa and then by MP Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment briefly on one amendment, which we have tabled independently of ourselves, as Mr Šincl has already submitted to the Committee on Budgets. The amendment concerns depreciation of the assets entrusted to the contribution organisations. This amendment is now in the system under the number 1329 and its promoter is Mr Šincl. [[10.40 hours]] I will try to explain briefly what the aim of the proposal is. It is the elimination of tax inequality and the setting of equal conditions in the use of assets entrusted to the management of a contribution organisation. The purpose of these adjustments is to streamline and clarify the management of the assets entrusted. It will allow the set-up to define precisely what its rights and obligations to the assets entrusted to it for the purpose of ensuring the activity and to continue to control that activity with an accurate accounting image. In accordance with Article 28 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 28 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 1 We adjust the depreciation of assets entrusted to the management of the contribution organization. The standard system approach used so far in the depreciation of tangible and intangible assets is based symmetrically, whereby the owner of the assets that are tax-deprived, i.e. applies depreciation on the income tax base, is also a person who settles the costs and revenues associated with the sale of the depreciation assets. From the point of view of the assets entrusted, it is from an economic point of view a distorted view of this issue. The long-term tangible and intangible assets are acquired in principle for the purpose of ensuring the activities carried out by the entity. Economic and accounting logic requires that these costs of acquisition of long-term assets be allocated to the performances carried out. The proposed adjustment is also intended to ensure, from the perspective of income tax, that an entity, in this case a contribution organisation, assigns to its performance the costs of its long-term assets. The Ministry of Finance's view so far is, say, illogical, when the assets entrusted are subject to a tax regime such that the contribution organisation will report in the accounts and from the income tax point of view tax its performances, but the cost of using long-term assets cannot be taken into account. They may be recognised by the founder, but they have no performance that he cannot report to them. The standard, so far used system approach of application of tax depreciation of contributory organisations set up by the local authorities in total gives the only option and that is the transfer of property from ownership of the local government unit to the ownership of the controlled contribution organisation. This will ensure symmetry applied to ordinary business entities. This solution also supports the applicable legislation on real estate acquisition tax. However, the Ministry of Finance does not take into account in this approach that, in such a case, the founder cannot define the rules for the disposal of such property in the establishment charter or elsewhere, the idea of the founder of the protection of public property cannot be ensured. The change in access to contribution organisations from the point of view of property law is both time-consuming and professional. It is subject to a conceptual amendment to Act No. 250/2000 Coll. It is therefore not really possible to leave or modify the existing Institute of Trusted Property in a very short time. Amendmented Provisions in Section 29 para. 1 of Law No. 586/1992 provides that the entry price is reduced by the public budget subsidy granted, i.e. the funds provided by the founder of the contribution organisation. The accounting aspect reflects both economic and legal reality, i.e. the fact that a territorial self-governing entity establishes a contribution organisation for the fulfilment of its tasks, and hence the natural obligation of the founder of the contribution organisation to equip the property for the performance of this task. The current structure of income tax significantly disadvantages the contribution organisations and results in the activities being carried out either directly by local authorities, and the disadvantage of such a procedure is worse organisation of activities for persons, underlying and effective adjustment of responsibility for compliance and negative impact on controlled organisations, including the ability of rapid and professional decision-making. You can't forget the social perspective. The more complex the scope of the activities and organisational arrangements and the management of the local authority, the more difficult is public control with all the consequences. The aim of the regulation is to set the rules, which, on the one hand, will equalise the status of the contribution organisation, but in particular will not put obstacles to restricting the inefficient setting of activities within the functioning of the local self-governing body and setting up the best system of property regulation in relation to the founder and its established contribution organisation. A similar situation is, for example, for voluntary associations of municipalities, where investment transfers from members of the volumes are currently considered as transfers from any other entity. In terms of income tax, the valuation of long-term assets is reduced. This situation significantly limits the use of that type of legal person, due to a fundamental tax disadvantage for tax depreciation of long-term assets compared to municipalities and regions. Financial implications for public budgets. The application of tax depreciation is assessed in relation to contribution organisations providing social and health services in accordance with the method of financing, e.g. subsidies from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or from regions, or services financed from health insurance, and further in accordance with the limitations of the founders to provide contributions to the operation. These restrictions on public aid are laid down in the rules on public aid under the European Union Directives. A gross estimate will mean a reduction in income tax by up to 100 million. Crowns. However, this tax savings will be reflected in the improvement of the services provided. At the same time, the need for public budget support will be reduced. The proposed change will be neutral, perhaps slightly positive, in terms of the collection of income tax, for sales of unnecessary long-term assets entrusted to the economic benefit organization. It can be assumed that significant unnecessary assets will be excluded from the management of the contribution organisation according to existing practice and subsequently sold by the founder. These are mainly land. The sale of the long-term assets of the contribution organisations can be expected to amount to approximately 50 million. Crowns. The tax base will be reduced by the application of costs, the tax obligation for the contribution organizations will be maximum in units of CZK million, estimated at CZK 1 to 2 million. Crowns. Under current legislation, he is obliged to tax the sale of the founder and he is the recipient of his own tax, which means that the amount of the tax paid would be equal to zero. This is briefly to mention this amendment, which you have in place in the system as Amendment 1329 to Mr Šincl. These are the reasons that lead to this. This proposal has support, as far as I know, from some regions and from the Union of Towns and Municipalities. We have dealt with this in the past, we have dealt with Mr. Finance Minister Janata, so far the will to change and the enforcement of such an amendment has not been done. I believe that it is now possible for this proposal to receive your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u15	I thank Mr. Ludvík Hovorka for his performance. Now, Mr Jiří Dolejš, Mr Vilímec, will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Promises are to be fulfilled at Christmas. When I promised you'd see me again yesterday, I'm here. The logic of my presentation, which is already in Parliament's system, is that when we tried to correct the VAT solution at the previous point, and that, of course, means a certain lapse in collection, so that it is fiscally neutral, so that it is taxed in the budget, then it has to be taken somewhere. We remembered the election vows, the tax progress. And so here you have it. I know we're at second reading, but since my colleagues have gotten a little swamped, I will remind you, and I told you at first reading that this bill on income tax is not dramatically bad, even though it certainly contains controversial and compromise points. Certainly this bill does not drape our pockets dramatically and does not mean a dramatic increase in tax collection. [[10.50 hours]] If you look at the convergence programme or, I suppose, in the draft state budget, you will see that there is an increase in the collection of this tax, but it can be linked rather to the recovery of economic growth, not to the discriminatory measures of this government, which is a fact. So if you don't take the measure that I want to talk about here because I think that the game to come back is really just a game, and when I remind you of the rates that we're talking about at the end, you'll see that it's nothing dramatic, we're not going anywhere in Scandinavia or the countries where they have really high progressive rates. I also do not think that only measures in the area of improving tax collection can be addressed to the problem of the balance of the state budget. I know it's the government's main leitmotiv, which doesn't want to change taxes much, and it's a real problem, but we're just going to show and dismantle the effects from time to time. This is, I think, a fairly clear measure, and the effect would be without discussion. Of course there are those sore spots. I understand how the issue of taxation is set up by the self-employed, which means the flat rates here so many times, as a compromise. You will remember, when the government prepared this bill, that there were proposals that were far, but much more painful, and that if we agreed here that entrepreneurs, especially small ones, are not parasites, and that they need to be treated differently to increase their tax contribution to the common register, this applies only to a flat rate of 60 percent, which concerns some of the selected disciplines. It is based on the limit of 2 million, etc., etc. I understand opposition to the environment in general, but the impact is differentiated and I think this compromise can be swallowed. Another painful point - of course we all received letters from our friends or enemies or colleagues from investment funds. Of course, the debate about whether the Czech Republic should try to be a second Luxembourg is a long time ago, but again I do not think that we are in a situation where we have to decide this. What bothers me more is that until 2016, the end of the so-called history was postponed. Super gross wages, for example. But we will undoubtedly return to this tax title. Now it is a step that, let's say, is necessary at least to at least somehow garner and close the proposals for tax measures for the fiscal period of 2015. And now the conclusion, although I will not use the words of my colleague Komárek ceterum by car censeo, who borrowed from the well-known old Roman policy of Cat, the nicknamed censor, but I will say without extension only that we are proposing three rates, that the basic rate for income remains up to 50 thousand a month, the rate above, i.e. medium, would be 18, or 15, 18, and the one above 100 thousand income per month, or so-called. millionaires, if I add it up in a year, they'd be 21. For the next period, so far we are still in the category of super gross wage of course. The moment when the supergross wage ends, we can again focus on tuning this progressive scale. This is the basis of my amendment and, of course, I will apply to it, now more closely and without supplements, in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u17	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš, my colleague Vilímec will take the floor, Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u18	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members who, at first reading, had already had a rather extensive discussion about this House press, particularly whether, in addition to the renewal of the pensioner discount or the increase in the discount on the second and third children, there was a need to intervene in a very significant way in recent tax laws. This has already been done by Mr Stanjura. I was also a non-member, but as the petitioner of the amendments, I was present at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, where the Deputy Minister of Finance confirmed that this House press would increase the tax burden by roughly 15 billion. CZK, compared to the current legislation in force since 1 January 2015. That's obvious, and the Treasury confirmed it. You know, let's ask ourselves whether it's wise to change again something that hasn't even started paying yet. Then let us not be surprised at the small trust of citizens in general in stable legislative conditions. He who pays the most for constant changes in tax laws is mostly a taxpayer. He, on the one hand, cannot be made aware of the various effective and ineffective provisions, sometimes even tax advisors cannot be made aware of them. What President Petr Fiala said is that if the proposal contained merely a renewal of the pensioner's discount or an increase in the discount on the second and third child plus technical matters in conjunction with the new Civil Code or the clarification of certain matters related to it, we have no problem supporting such a proposal. Surely we have no problem supporting the renewal of the basic tax discount for working pensioners. After all, it was the Civil Democratic Party that put forward this proposal as the House Press 184, and it is surprising that while the coalition government, if it is a government proposal, agrees with it, and if the same provision, the renewal of the pensioner discount, seeks to restore the Civil Democratic Party, the opposition, the government's consent is not. That's pretty much when we were talking about hypocrisy yesterday, it's kind of interesting. Certainly on my part, personally on my part, but also on the ODS' side, we cannot swallow what Mr Dolejš said he could swallow. We are definitely against limiting the setting of spending flat rates for the self-employed. You know, it's such an old-fashioned fight against those - from the left - who go into risk and do business. Many of them create additional jobs, employ others. We all know that this measure will not bring anything positive in reducing spending flats for the CFI compared to the current situation. If you look at the impact it has on the state budget, it only affects 200 miles. Crowns. I don't know if it's a conservative estimate by the Treasury or a non-conservative estimate. For territorial units, it has an impact of 300 miles. koruna, i.e. overall impact of only half a billion crowns. Many times discussed the problem of the impact of lower tax revenue collection on the basis of the so-called tax returns for local authorities need to be addressed by another mechanism within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. It is generally known that the reduction in tax collection in the case of tax returns on the basis of tax returns is not merely due to flat-rate expenditures, but by the system of any technical adjustment of tax collections earned under income tax under tax return. I don't want to talk about the other changes the government's proposal represents because the previous speakers talked about it, but I want to stop at the changes to the tax system. It is interesting that, in the extent of the changes in the tax system at all, very little has been discussed and very little has been articulated that this law also brings these many changes, and these are not only changes of a technical nature, these are changes which significantly strengthen the position of the tax administrator on the one hand, on the other hand, significantly restrict the position of the taxpayer. [[11.00 hours]] Yes, I am aware that this proposal is justified by the need to combat tax evasion. I don't have a problem with that. However, it is important to weigh very sensitively that the fight against tax evasion does not lead to inadequate measures against those seeking to comply with the laws and regulations in force in general. You know, they don't communicate with the tax authorities anyway, and any increase in fines doesn't end up falling on them at all. And I fear that, in the end, even that honest tax entity should not start to weigh very much whether the risk of any unintentional misconduct is still proportional to the effects it would have been exposed to. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, I applied some amendments to the tax rules. There were about ten of them. I have studied the position of the Ministry of Finance on them very thoroughly, and in some cases I have also abandoned their further enforcement in view of the debate on the Committee on Budgets and in the vote of the Committee on Budgets. This concerns the suspensive effect of the so-called delegations or attractions. I do not want the discussion of these matters to be flattened into the position of the necessary hardening of the fight against tax evasion. Of the six amendments to which I sign up in the detailed debate at second reading, two are very technical, more or less a response to the new Civil Code. It has to do with specifying the rules for representing legal persons, with the tax administrator as well as with the question of the solidarity obligations of heirs to pay the tax liability of the deceased. It is also based on comments from the Tax Chamber in the framework of today's commentary procedure, which were not accepted by the Ministry of Finance. The other two proposals are then drawn up in variants and are being conducted either by an effort not to increase the maximum amount of fines mentioned here by Mr Stanjura, including the failure to introduce new fines, or at least in the second option to mitigate their increases, whether the existing ones as well as the newly introduced ones, up to half of the maximum amount proposed in the law. Mr Stanjura here spoke of the Chamber of Commerce, which does not agree with the increase of the current order fine from 50 thousand to half a million, it is an increase to 10 times, and does not agree with the introduction of new sanctions, particularly sanctions in the event of a tax return being filed otherwise than electronically. There, the tax system assumes a fine of two thousand and other possible fines if the tax office accedes to them. I am aware that in the previous Tax and Charge Administration Act, the amount was even higher, that there was a maximum of CZK 2 million. This limit has also been criticised in the long run, which is why during the previous government there was a significant reduction to CZK 50,000. However, I do not consider a tenfold increase in fines adequate, and I have not read any analyses in the explanatory memorandum, which fines are imposed at all, whether the limit of 50,000 is sufficient, whether it is used at all or not. If you look at the justification for the tax code, that's one downtime in the entire government proposal. In the other two amendments, I am then trying to remove the hardness of the current adjustment in the case of interest for the period of tax waiting by supplementing the provision that interest on the cut amount will apply for a maximum period of five years of the waiting period. At the same time, I propose to keep this deadline in the event of interest on late payments, and I am in fact in favour of the Ministry of Finance's objection to my amendments applied to the Committee on Budgets. I would like to emphasise, in the case of the five-year period, that interest is calculated on these provisions not only on taxes but also on interest on the so-called levy. unduly used subsidies from public budgets, and thus, in practice, the total interest can actually reach a high amount, theoretically higher than often due. This matter is rightly criticised by the beneficiaries of subsidies, including the chieftains, including many mayors. Finally, I would like to ask the honourable House, my fellow Members, to support these proposals at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Petr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't help me not to mention the time of the election, or I will say the time of the election and the time before the elections, when the Social Democrats apologized, that the parasites didn't mean so bad and that, on the contrary, the tradesmen are an important component of the functioning of the economy in the Czech Republic and that they will be dedicated to them. Then I'd like to remind you. At the same time, I would like to remind the YES movement and the Deputy Prime Minister Babiš of his statement, which once was, I suspect, in Brno or where, great versus small, where the small entrepreneurs, that it is such a thing that the Czech Republic does not need, because only the big ones are important. And look, all of a sudden, here's a bill that complicates the life of businessmen, craftsmen, small farmers, and like nothing's happening. I'd like to remind you of this. I would remind the Social Democrats that they apologized for parasites and said they didn't mean it. And the YES movement and Mr Babiš, through the President, I would like to say that he has the opportunity here to say that he is not only concerned about the big ones but also about the small ones. Please leave the flats where they are, don't complicate the lives of those who won't save the state budget in any way. They're already saving him by even being there. Transferring other duties to them may be the wish of the great ones who want them to fail, but the state should not wish for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next envoy is Mr. František Laudát. With priority rights, Mr. Ambassador? With priority rights, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you once again to support the amendment of the Úsvit movement, which was presented here by the President of our Radim Fiala parliamentary club, so that we do not increase the tax relief for businessmen. I would like to stress that the Czech Republic has record unemployment at this point over 600,000 inhabitants. It's about 8 percent of the active population. In this context, I must, of course, ask the government and the B, what is the government's programme for creating new jobs, what is the government's programme to reduce unemployment in the Czech Republic. So far, we have only heard non-systemic proposals for infrastructure investments. So when the infrastructure is built in some way, we can discuss whether it will be sooner or later, so there are no jobs, so I'd like to hear some system proposals. If we say A, that means we increase the tax burden of the traders that are here, I suspect that the owners of the trade certificates are about a million in the Czech Republic, so it is a large group, and we have record unemployment and we already have almost a year of new government here, so will we finally learn some government plan to reduce unemployment in the Czech Republic? Because if we make businessmen this much worse and we don't tell them B, then of course, it's only gonna be a big upset. On the contrary, I think that economically, if we have unemployment, we should allow the citizens of the Czech Republic to take up their jobs as much as possible. That's what's important. To keep themselves busy and an event. they have found themselves a job by, on the contrary, reducing them from the terms and conditions and making it difficult for them to self-employment, that is, for business. This means that, once again, I ask you that this government comply with what we have heard from some parties in the election campaign, which means that tax burdens and contributions from citizens of the Czech Republic will not increase, and that, on the contrary, the contribution to the treasury should be sought in terms of various internal savings, but that it does not burden primarily those who are self-employed and self-active from the point of view of unemployment, which is what we need to support or say, B, where we will therefore take jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u23	Thank you. I have here an application for a factual remark from Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u24	Hello, Vice-President, colleagues. I can't not respond to my colleague Okamura's performance. Please, this proposal does not fundamentally alter and restrict and reduce the tax advantage of traders. There's a million businessmen operating here. This adjustment applies only to the group of 60% and 80% and only to the level of 2 million. What's common with the first and second groups is long ago, it's just a splash. That means it's just businessmen in the third and fourth groups and businessmen who make over $2 million. Within 2 million, it remains intact. Please, let's not confuse citizens, let's not panic, there's nothing to worry about, there's just two groups on the ground, because the first two are already covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u25	Thank you. We will therefore now proceed to a duly registered Member, and this is Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u26	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore fully propose that this amendment be rejected at third reading. If someone has been illusioning about the ANO movement and making illusions about the existing coalition, few laws or amendments show the true form, face and objectives of the existing coalition than this amendment. You're punishing businessmen. You obviously don't know how the real life of ordinary people works, who are very clever, can take care of themselves, unlike others, they don't stand before the authorities of work, they don't beg for themselves and they take care of themselves. But that's been said a lot. I hope they'll see and think about who they're gonna vote for next time. There are laws that tend to intimidate citizens more, punish them more, and, of course, in this context - also make life more difficult for them - is that somewhere in the mist, what should have been lost, what should have made life significantly more enjoyable and simplified, and to make the government more efficient, save for officials, and that is a single collection point. It's lost in the mist. You've all heard with your own ears that Prime Minister Sobotka is not the government's priority. The government's priority is not to simplify people's lives. However, what I want to deal with and why I also proposed rejection for myself at third reading is a question of taxation of investment funds. In the last parliamentary term, on the basis of the fact that the European Union is trying very positively to unite legislation in the area of investment, we had to transpose some 36, if I am not mistaken, 38 regulations. I must point out that this was a very complex law that had been in existence for about three and a half years. It was a very thick bond on investment funds, collective investment, etc. It was called alternative investment funds, if I'm not mistaken. After difficult negotiations, explaining, the biggest seminar probably in the House over the last few years, so, with the exception of the Social Democrats, when I dare say that almost no one has read it, the amendment, and then they opposed the argument that they do not seem to see it, so across all the other parties and MEPs have understood what a key strategic step is going on in the future and with a huge one - I think more than 300 changes from the Ministry of Finance workshop have approved this law. All these negotiations, explanations and seminars were made, and all potential investors said: we want predictable behaviour, we want stability of set conditions, we want certainty; Then we'll come to you, you'll have great benefits. Even in the most modest estimates, the Ministry of Finance was concerned about the lower borders, if we had not become an investment tiger, about 19 billion of state budget revenues, and I say that it was precisely the Ministry of Finance that was afraid, so it reinforced some of the sections, so it decreased from bases like 36 billion. plus and all that. So it's this step, Minister, you're crashing. I'm surprised you've set up another Minister of Science who's silent instead of beating the alarm here. The innovation company does not depend on the support of the state, it can only fine-tune, put into really high-risk projects, help, but the basic innovation shift of the company should depend on the private sector, as is the case in the most dynamic countries. If, Minister, you ask your leader to the Prague council of Adriana Krnáčová, she would certainly explain to you what damage your step, when - and even selectively - you change the tax rate of funds from 5 to 19 percent, she would explain it to you. She was standing in the background of it. It was the lady who taught me how to actually do in the world of investment strategies in the most advanced economies. And that's what you're tearing down with your design. I dare say that you will also repel the investment funds that have come here. New ones will not come, because, as may have been said here, various transactions that run the world, and it is really virtual movement on Internet electronic networks, so they do not tax these transactions, the target result is taxed. The goal is to get the capital here. You, together with social democracy today - which has never been secret - have been involved in condemning the Czech Republic to investment poverty. Despite these funds, there was a chance to invent a system of financing transport infrastructure or technical infrastructure in general in a completely different way. And where I see a notch, they're not just going to come here, it's just one part, and we might still be able to do without it, even if it's a shame for the state budget, because it's a hen that lays golden eggs without burdening the country, with minimal infrastructure requirements - Luxembourg lives on it, if you're interested, just recently had 40 billion. dollars in income from funds, even if it's a tiger and a world leader. Okay, but if we had a fraction, it would help us, so maybe you and the Social Democrats can put on your Potemkin projects and subsidize everyone and anyone. However, where Minister Bělobrádek should scream, it is indeed that you repel investors in venture capital funds, one of which and for me the most important subset are venture investment funds in the field of innovative, innovative funds. I don't know why he doesn't comment. I think it is appropriate for me to propose - I am chairman of the subcommittee on innovation, aviation and cosmonautism - that this subcommittee should be abolished at least in that part of innovation, because if there is no modern and much-needed financial instrument for financing innovative technologies, then we have nothing to talk about. The rest is nothing but change compared to what you're doing here. It was also a huge chance to bind and bring money into real estate, which would then return, for example. in pension systems to invest in real value, not virtual shares around the world. But you're canceling the second pillar, inviting your former comrade to do it, and I'm sure he'll tell you all this. [[11.20 hours]] So I'm sorry, but for me, this is such a crucial step towards the country's future stagnation and decline that I have no choice but to give you one more chance to redo the law and propose its rejection at third reading. And please don't ever say you're a right-winger again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u27	Thank you. I have one point of fact here, Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u28	Mr President, fellow Members, Mr Laudát said in his speech that he would propose to reject this proposal at third reading. I think it makes it out of the title that the person is biased because Mr. Laudát has been a CFI since 2011, and if memory doesn't deceive me, last year he admitted a net profit of CZK 2 million for his project activity. I don't know how a nuclear physicist can do design work in a metro, maybe radon's out there, it's possible. So I think, from this title, he's proposing this cancellation right here, because he's in that category, in my opinion, which will just be touching the ceiling of CZK 2 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u29	Thank you, and now with priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u30	Thank you, Mr President. By your means: But ew, colleague Hájek! When we are talking about income tax and personal income tax, we are all somehow biased. Because I feel like we're all paying the taxes. After all, your chairman likes to brag about what taxes he pays and where. And when he proposes any tax legislation, he is logically in conflict of interest, which, unlike other conflicts of interest from which he dramatically drains public money, I don't blame him for tax legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered not because I thought I could convince you with my speech, because now we are in a position to convince the convinced. However, I would like to see my speech as a protest against the media output in the public debate on this bill. Because when you do your research from public sources, you read that this law will make families with children feel better. This law will relieve František. This law will relieve Lojza. We are simply relieved by this law as we can, and when we add it up - and here I repeat the Ministry of Finance's number - when we add it up, all citizens in the Czech Republic will pay almost 15 billion in the next year together thanks to this law. more. And that is not - here again I protest against media outputs - that is not the claim of Miroslav Kalousek, that is the official number of the Ministry of Finance. Mr Stanjura here cheered that the Committee on Budgets was also confirmed by the Deputy Minister Babiš. Well, what else can he confirm but his own number? That's the number the Ministry of Finance gives in open sources. Thanks to these active measures, we will choose 14.6 billion from the citizens of the Czech Republic. We are increasing taxes by 14.6 billion more than the rule of law assumes, and we are reporting this even to Brussels as a positive report. That is the first particular reason why this proposal cannot be accepted, and why I do not understand why this information - I understand. When someone buys half of the media market, it's understandable - but why is it a little bit desperate that people don't have that information? It's just that. And I'm going back to the argument that the state budget isn't ready for that. The state budget is prepared twice for this, because the state budget compared to the assumptions for your gifts to trade unions, operating expenses, social benefits, wages, all that is not really the pull of economic growth, so you increase taxpayers' spending by roughly 60 billion compared to the original assumptions. Sometimes you call it - Mr Holeček likes to call it responsible investment. But Mr Holeček will be very surprised if he does not already know that this increase will not go on investment. We'll just eat it. These investments will be increased by approximately one to two percent, because that is what Minister Babiš proposes in the state budget. So the state budget was prepared for this, if the government were willing to save and not increase public spending, so the reward - because we were all carrying costs during the five-year crisis, first financial, then debt. Not that it's not a crisis. There were just two recurring crises here. First it was a financial crisis caused by the mortgage crisis, second it was a debt crisis of the state. And I will again try to appeal to Mr Plzák to understand that, in terms of the future and strategy of the Czech Republic, the problem of the state's debt crisis from our point of view was infinitely greater than the problem of the shallow, albeit long-lasting recession. These are just two different priorities, and each responsible therapist solves what is deadly at the time and gives it a greater priority than what is unpleasant, but it is not fatally dangerous. So when we've all been through the costs, there's still a valid law ahead of us, that reward, that we'll take less money if the government doesn't want to give the presents. Not for investments, for operating expenses, for social benefits, for civil servants' wages, for that, for that. We'll buy cheaper dish sponges and buy mink fur and write in the newspaper we bought that we're saving. From a marketing point of view, I'd say that's genius. From a budgetary point of view, this is quite irresponsible and destructive. In the global balance sheet, and that is partly still Mr Fiedler's answer, it is 14.6 billion in the global balance sheet, reports the Ministry of Finance. If this law had not been passed, the tax burden on natural persons would have fallen by 14.6 billion. Whereas the government is about 60 billion. as opposed to the original assumptions, so answer your own question, Mr President, whether or not the budget was ready for this. Of course, technical objections may arise here that the current legal situation is related to the laws relating to the single collection point and that after the start of Fischerův's government, this project has ceased to work. That means, he's not technically ready, he could cause some problems. That, of course, is true. But the planned reduction, if we're to think of it as a rate amendment, is the planned reduction of about 15 billion. There are other ways to do this. So we're not changing the system, or we're changing the system later, and now we're going to do it at a simple rate. But what you're suggesting is that you just pick 15 billion from these people. More than they're right to wait, because now they're reading the laws. The whole business community has always wanted us to say tax changes in advance. This is a valid legal situation since 2012. The public and the business sector have been ready for this for three years. We've met the basic condition for there to be long enough legisvakance, and you come in all white and a few months before that, you're gonna kick it all over, and you're gonna change the whole thing for them. This means not only that you want higher taxes, but you don't even respect the basic requirement of the business sector to make changes in advance, because when this amendment of yours comes into force, once you have voted on it, it will again be only a few weeks before it comes into effect. [[11.30 hours]] In addition to the global figure that someone can hardly imagine, none of us earns 14.6 billion, which this government wants to turn the inhabitants of the Czech Republic next year, so let us take one concrete example. All the numbers I've said up until now are official information from the Treasury Department. Now please allow me to quote a table that is my source. That's my tax calculation, but I've had some experts check it out, and I guarantee it. I mean, to talk about the relief. Consider a typical businessman who takes care of himself, his family, carpenter, roofer, plumber, someone who has relatively high inputs and outputs, but a relatively small profit. Such a person, if approved by the proposal made by Minister Babiš, will improve against the current state - fair to say - provided that he has two children and a wife without income. Yes, the discounts on children make such a person better and improve by CZK 200 a month as a standard, whether his gross profit per month is 15,000 or 40,000. It's just that the system is set up so that the government coalition can say, "We've relieved you, you and the kids, you've improved." So he tells the craftsman, who can earn a month's gross pre-tax profit, "we've added 200 crowns to you in a month," and the craftsman who could make 40 grand before tax kills himself in his boobs the same way and says "we've added 200 crowns to you." [[15,000.]] This is a situation compared to the current situation. And it's fair to say that really about the 200 crowns, no matter how hard-working, creative, everyone will do better. But please compare it to what a valid legal situation looks like. The one with the 15 grand, which according to Babiš will improve by 200 kroner, would improve by 290 kroner according to valid legal condition, i.e. The 15,000 Babiš collects 90 crowns a month in taxes by promoting this proposal. At 20 thousand, which is not much, they are not rich people, they are people who work from morning to evening, as President Fiala rightly said, people without protection of the Labour Code, people without protection of holidays etc., and when they work from morning to evening to have 20 thousand crowns, so according to Babiš they will improve by 200 crowns, that is true, but according to the valid legal condition he would improve by 1 020 crowns, i.e. Babiš collects 820 crowns a month for such a person. At 30,000, it is also not much for a man who works, and there are many who, according to Babiš, will improve again - guess you can three times - again by 200 crowns, but according to valid legal condition he would improve by 1 305 crowns, i.e. Babiš collects 11 hundred a month. Finally, 40,000, maybe someone will be mad at me already, but for a working craftsman with two children and with a wife without income of 40,000 gross profit before tax, there is also no dazzling payout, so according to Babiš, he will improve by - correctly, Mr Bendl tells me - 200 crowns, while according to the current legal condition he would improve by CZK 1 740, so Babiš collects CZK 1, 540 a month. You see the difference? You see the relativity of the word progression? Do you see the relativity of the word - the law will ease? The law will relieve everyone of 200 crowns compared to the current state, no matter how hard-working, creative, as they try. You're not trying, you can do 15 grand a month, I'll give you 200 crowns. You're trying, you're working, I'll give you 200 crowns. The tax system, which is now in the current legal state, not only reduces the tax burden on both natural and legal persons by almost 15 billion, that therefore reduces the price of labour, i.e. Accelerates what is most important at the moment in the fight against unemployment, which is the cost of work, because the labour market applies exactly the same laws as in any other market. If we hadn't injected those chickens with water, we'd have to sell them a lot. [[The noise in the hall.]] If the workforce is burdened with higher contributions, it is more expensive. The more expensive something is, the less available it is on the market, so the same rules apply there. If today, if we do not accept this proposal, we have a chance to reduce the cost of work by 15 billion. within the entire labour market in the Czech Republic and we will not do it, so why are we talking about tools such as cursarbeit or something else, instruments much less effective for combating unemployment than reducing labour prices. And besides refusing to lower the cost of work, we also refuse to understand that someone is more harder and someone less harder. We want to add the same to everyone, and we're adding them in a way that convinces them that we don't collect them, that we're adding them. But we're actually collecting. I beg anyone who really wants to do this, let them do these calculations. Let him marry a nurse, marry a carpenter, marry a gamekeeper, marry a innkeeper with one child, with two children, with three children. Let him make these calculations, it's not hard at all. You'll find you're doing nothing but robbing these people at this point. And you're ripping them off with the system - the harder you are, the more we take away from you! And I will add my favorite sentence: if it were in favour of sound public budgets, leading the structural deficit to zero, I would probably be able to remain silent because macro-economic stability is a huge priority. But it is not in the interests of balanced public budgets. It is in the interest of an irresponsible, wasteful and unsavory government policy that dramatically increases expenditure not on investment, but on social benefits, operation and wages of civil servants. And it hurts. That's wrong. That is why we do not propose any amendments. From a global fiscal strategy point of view, it is simply a step in an extremely bad direction, decorated with cosmetic reliefs for one or the other, so that, if possible, few people notice that we actually collect everyone. That's the point of this proposal. Therefore, of course, he cannot have our support. [[11.40 hours]] The discussion on the Committee on Budgets was interesting because the representative of the Ministry of Finance was not exceptionally lying. He actually admitted there that it was a tax increase. In that case, I believe that we could return this committee proposal for a renegotiation, which is a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u31	Thank you. Before we continue our negotiations, I'll read the notes that have arrived. From 13:00 to 19:00, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes from the meeting because of the meeting of the council. From 12 to 15 o'clock, Mrs Balaštíková and Mrs Maxová apologize for today's meeting, and today's day from 11.40 to 17 o'clock, Mr David Kasal apologizes for the meeting. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Rais and the rapporteur, and then Mr Laudát has a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u32	A few of these more general things, but something specific. I'll protect the Deputy Secretary. She's not here, so she can't defend herself. There was never talk about tax increases, but about the impact on state budget revenues on 1. 1. That's what she said. It has to do with each other. We hear it here all the time. There's a mix-up here. One thing is to improve tax collection, and that is, of course, the coalition wants to go in that direction, and the other is to change tax rates. If we look at it, aside from the debate on investment funds, as my colleague Volný here said, there is no tax increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u33	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by the Member... You're putting it in front of you. Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u34	Mr Laudát was so kind as to respond directly to Professor Rais. Professor, for God's sake, let's maintain a certain dignity of logic and intellectual reasoning. If the Deputy Minister has explicitly admitted that it will select the state budget from natural persons by 14.6 billion, and she has admitted that, these are the impacts on the state budget, so it will select the state budget by 14.6 billion. How's he gonna pick them? That people would pay 14.6 billion. More. There's no other choice. In other words, it is a tax increase of 14.6 billion. Let's not play words here. If I may ask you, don't be disrespectful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u35	Thank you. Mr Laudát is in order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just want to stop by briefly - a reaction to Mr. Hájek. In the United States, it is said that a gentleman does not ask two questions: how much do you earn and who do you vote for? Of course, to assume with this Member, who has been producing intellectual performances here so far truly worthy of attention, but somewhere completely different from the House, the highest authority in this country... There is also the concept of intelligent failure around innovation. Obviously, this can never happen to Mr Hájek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u37	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u38	I would also like to respond to the rapporteur's speech. Czech is beautiful because when you put it differently, you can't blame the sentence you said, but it's not true. One thing is the revenue of the state budget, and the other thing is taxes. Well, I don't know. Look at the item. With the state budget, taxes are written, income so much. I think it's a really useless argument. If the impact is acknowledged plus 14.6 billion, then where will they come from? And that's the Deputy Minister of Finance's number. We're just saying it, and we're repeating the number. It's plus 14.6 per tax item, so it's going to be collected by 14.6 billion. taxes more due to legislative change. Not because of GDP growth, not because people pay bigger taxes as in absolute numbers. First of all. And two. My colleague Volný says the rate is not changing. That is, of course, true - in tradesmen. But the tax base is changing. And often more important is what is part of the tax base, and we do not need to convince ourselves of that than what the rate itself is. Okay, if I had an 80 percent flat-rate today and I had an income of 16 million, how much did I pay the tax and how much will I pay the tax from next year? That's pretty simple. I'll pay a lot more. And you call that tax doesn't change and it doesn't increase. Not the rate, but the basis on which the tax is calculated is changed. Again, there's nothing to blame for this sentence. You're right that the tax rate doesn't change, but the maximum amount of flat-rate spending is changing to be precise. That means what I have over it and I'm not paying for 2014 yet, so I'm paying for 2015. So I'll pay more taxes. It's very simple. Take a model example for businessmen when they have 16 miles. costs and, for example, 18 million. income, someone who, for example, makes a living making furniture and calculate taxes for him in 2014 and 2015 and convince him that he will pay the same taxes!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u39	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of the rapporteur, Mr Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u40	I think that people are really a little haunted here by saying that they're 14.6 billion. The crown will be collected from the people. There are also legal entities, we just heard here that the law is so ugly in quotation marks that it has to be abolished because it affects investment funds. He's probably a huge difference between the tax collection of the plumber, the roofer, as you've interpreted here, and there I assume we agree that the impact there will be relatively small or none. And on the other hand, there's a difference between choosing from investment funds, which, you don't say, essentially drain money outwards, and that's where funds tax themselves with zero. It's also about structure. My point is that demagogic talk about the so-called 14,6 billion people being affected is simply not true. It's all there is to it. You're confusing pears with apples, taking advantage of the Deputy Minister's saying that the impact on income - I accidentally wrote it down - is this amount. That's what the choice is really about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u41	Thank you. I have now signed up with factual remarks in the order of Mr Kalousek, Mr Stanjura, Mr Volný Member and then Mr Daniel Korte. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u42	Mr President, I respect that you do not want to trust me, but I beg you, at least try to trust your Minister of Finance, your Chairman of the movement and his document. If you open the convergence programme on page 14, read Table No. 3.1, which is the document of Minister Babiš approved by the government, the impact of the measures being repealed. No better choice - the impact of the measures that have been repealed. And now there are natural persons, legal persons, VAT. And for an item of a natural person, you can read plus 14.6 billion. In other words, in this table, your finance minister tells the Czech public and the European Commission that, by abolishing Kalouskův and Nečasův' legislation, he will collect from natural persons, from people, from no one else, the item is called personal income tax, by 14.6 billion. more, because it'll just cancel the measure. I'm sorry, I know you're a professor and I've been studying, but as a rapporteur, I'm going to tell you as a member of the House: you really, really didn't prepare yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u43	Another with a point of fact - Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u44	I'll start with the investment funds. I asked two specific questions. Neither the petitioner nor the rapporteur replied. So try telling the rapporteur how you would explain to students when there are 10 investors and each gives 5 million, the tax is 19 percent, and it is 50 million, and if there are 50 investors and each gives a million, which is equal to 50 million, it will still invest, the tax is 5%. Try to explain logically. I didn't say the bill was to be abolished because of the investment funds - so I'm sorry. I suggested we keep one rate. If you said it would be 19 percent for everyone, so I protest and say it's wrong that there's an increase in tax, but I wouldn't ask why there's a distinction between good and bad investments and why 50 times 1 is taxed less than 10 times 5. I understand it as an attack on rich people. Otherwise, I don't understand, because 50 million is 50. If I have the same investment strategy, then why would I tax differently based on how much someone put in? I just didn't get an answer to that, and I'd like to get one. Maybe I'll accept the arguments. I didn't come up with any. And the debate about 14.6 billion. I'm sure if you were to try a student who would talk about personal income tax and say, that's because they're also legal persons, and he said that's income to the state budget, but it won't pay the taxpayers that he wouldn't pass the exam. There's no point in arguing about words. The impact on the state budget is mentioned in legislative terms; it is not a law that improves tax collection in the sense of measures; only rates change there. That means, I'm sure a student like that wouldn't succeed with you, because the legal entities you've been talking about, none of us talked about, the legal entities have nothing to do with the amount incriminating, and you know it like me. And so does the material, in the convergence programme, about the impact of legislative changes to abolish or postpone the effectiveness of the single collection point and all the things involved. We discussed this together a few months ago. And I don't know why you're ashamed of it. It's your numbers, it's reality. We say it's not good. You think that's a good thing. That is why we are also on other political parties. It's just normal. But there's no point in arguing about what the phrase you wrote yourself means. We quote your sentence -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u45	Your time, Mr. Ambassador! I'm sorry. Thank you. Next in line is Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u46	Thank you for the floor. One more time, now especially for colleague Stanjura. Please, let's not have an election meeting here. We know that the ceiling and this model were made for small businessmen, which are a large, large majority in those groups. No hairdresser has any expenses, virtually. costs above 2 million. Crowns. First of all. It is really built against various technical advisors, who need one phone, three tram tickets and earn 15 miles. per year. And don't tell me they'll pay more. The limit is therefore only set at a flat-rate deduction. If an entrepreneur who makes furniture and has a cost of 15 miles. and prove them, so of course they will be deducted. It's just a flat-rate thing. Then let's not confuse people. It is not built against businessmen, it is built directly in the style of logic of the thing for which these flats were supposed to fulfil their role! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u47	Thank you. Another with a factual remark, Mr Korte.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must, of course, draw your attention to the esteemed professor that, if he turns to Mr Kalousek, or to Mr Kalousek. to the person of the male sex, the correct shape of the transitionalr is not used but used. [[Fun.]] Secondly, to Mr Hájek, again through you. Dear Member, what you have shown here has been a contribution of typically a cop-six-six, which is in line with the nature of the party of which you are a member. And I congratulate you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u49	Thank you. Next up, Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u50	Good morning again. I would like to support virtually every side of this dispute here: Mr Volný, that we really need to look at the tradesmen with a different view. I really see the difference between a hairdresser and a plumber and between a broker and a financial advisor and there I understand the differences and I understand the sense that, as was said, someone makes 1.5 miles on the phone. Maybe and someone's working really hard. So I understand the difference, and I agree with this. And to the rapporteur, I would like to say to Mr Rais about the investment funds. You, my colleague, said that investment funds will take funds abroad, and that's where they're going to tax them zero. And what's in it for us? Basically, the amendment that is being recorded here says that we are not going to ask them to tax 19 per cent, but 5 per cent, and we are left with the 5 per cent, and the investment funds are not going to run away from Malta, they are not going to flee to Liechtenstein, but they are going to stay with us. And that is the meaning and merit of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u51	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u52	Mr. Volný is no longer here, so I don't know who to address through you, such an empty bench. I was talking about craft trades. If any technical advisor with one cell phone has a craftsmanship, I'd be very surprised. So his argument was odd and wrong. And all the time, I've heard it since yesterday: we're on the campaign, the election campaign! I agree, but campaigns for local elections. I have seen that some candidates promise things that are decided by the government and the House, while running for the council of cities and municipalities. And do you really think that in the campaign for municipal elections, he will decide how this law will end in this House? That's completely, completely wrong! Maybe some candidates -- maybe some of your candidates say that, I don't know, but I think voters in municipal elections are interested in what the candidates offer them for their community and their city. And that's another election, that was a year ago, and it'll be three years from now. So maybe we're already in the 2017 election campaign and we can say that every day, but don't blame us if we don't agree with the government that we're in the 2017 campaign and to the local elections! I really do not understand what this has to do with the fact that someone will vote in a town, a village or a city of candidates who have a lot to choose from, depending on how the debate is going on about the amendment to the Income Tax Act - the EU, the House Press 252. Well, it won't be! So don't smash our heads in here! And here's my colleague Free, he's already here, so I'd like you to give me this example of a cell phone technique that has a craftsmanship and is entitled to 80% flat-rate, and so what's the name of the trade when it's crafty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u53	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u54	Thank you. Again, Mr Volný's reflection. He said we're running an election campaign here. We really don't. We're just, you know, maybe you'll be surprised, colleagues, but we're here as lions fighting to defend Babiš's Treasury Secretary's numbers. We're doing nothing but trying to explain to you that his readings are correct and what they mean. The argument on your part is a bit of a brain-jerk because, on the one hand, Minister Babiš honestly writes in his materials: Thanks to the annulment of Kalouskův and Nečasův' legislation we will choose from the natural persons 14.6 billion. In private tutoring classes, I am prepared to show everyone this table where Babiš writes it, and the government approved it with its resolution. You're saying it's not true, we're not going to choose from people. In official materials approved by the government Minister Babiš writes: The government will increase spending, the government will increase structural deficits. You're saying it's not true. We do nothing but defend the official and serious data of your finance minister against your populism!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u55	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for delaying, but if you were listening to Mr Korte, I think that his performance would lift the lame or the person in the wheelchair. I have quoted only the facts available in my speech regarding Mr Laudát. This means the data that every politician, every Member has a duty to admit, i.e. Possession of politicians. I'll look forward to it one day here, and maybe it'll be soon enough, we'll be discussing political property confessions. I'm ready, and I've got my pay bags ready at home from 1970 until today. They'll be on the table here. [[He's taping the counter with his hands.]] This is where they're gonna be. I'm looking forward to the group here, and everyone - Mr. Bendl, as I see it, Mr. Stanjura and the others - will bring those pay bags. I'll show you my house, I'll show you my garden, I'll show you my car, I'll show you my income, and we can talk about it. The words Mr Korte said here - I remember Mr Korte from when I wasn't here yet. He sang here in one vote on government trust, so I have no doubt about his behavior or his reactions. This means that I will not respond to the filth of spitting in a similar way, as Mr Vondráček reacted. I'm a man, I'm a miner. We used to drive into each other's hairs every day in the mining business. There were a hundred times stronger expressions, but unlike here, the mollusk, which is here, so we went all the way, but we just kept working. There's just a word to look for a flaw, a nuance of things that just don't entertain the normal person. And I don't often like it here either, 'cause you wouldn't get it horny after that, there it is, here you turn off the light, and there it will show who's who. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u57	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up. [[Thank you.]] Another is Mr Pilný, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Kalousek and the last Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u58	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to return the debate to where it belongs. So the first thing that concerns investment funds. Investment funds - there was reduced the rate of tax to 5%. I am not an employee of the Ministry of Finance, but it has been reduced to 5% so that investment funds become accessible to retail investors. The tax rate of 19 per cent means that then all profits or dividends with tax of 15 per cent, which is a total of 34 per cent. This is very discriminatory especially for small investors. However, when this was introduced, development funds appeared here, and I can't agree that they could take 5% and now they're going somewhere else. They were simply developing funds here, using reduced tax rates to 5%, and that was extremely advantageous for them, so they're not going anywhere, because they just never get those conditions. That's for investment incentives. So I think that the fact that two categories of funds have actually been introduced, on the one hand, where the rate of 5% remains open to retail investors, and the other 19 percent for those who would like to speculate is correct. When it comes to flat-rate things, I myself until recently was a self-employed person, I carried out activities that were mostly consultative. I was taking advantage of a tax flat-rate, which really paid me off until Minister Kalousek cut off my retirement benefits, so I figured it wouldn't pay me if all my things were to be paid for by the State. Definitely the measure that's here and that's just reducing the rate so that it doesn't get speculative again is absolutely correct. And I think that even for those people who work mostly mentally, the boundary of the flat rate is absolutely sufficient and the rate will remain advantageous for them. I'm not going to talk about craftsmen, hairdressers, because it's very obvious there. I was alone until recently, and I think this measure is not discriminatory. [[Time limit notification]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u59	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's microphone, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u60	I understand that perhaps the impulse to change is that developers have favourable conditions. But I asked you ten times one and five times ten. And I didn't get the answer to that. What's the difference? I don't understand. And I really don't understand the fact that, for example, the investment in securities is a good 5% and 19 percent for housing. Personally, and I say that this is my personal decision, I would consider it safer and longer-term investment in real estate than in some securities. But I don't have the problems. About what Mr Hájek said here. Well, that's exactly the attitude. Yes, I've submitted a property confession. And unlike you, I didn't examine 199 others to quote "he's taking so much," "he's taking so much." You guys can wear pay bags here. I don't know if they're full or empty. I've been getting money electronically for 20 years. So don't pick on me. Then you say that we're -- you insult someone first, and then you say, "We on the shaft, we raiders would have had our fill." What kind of solution is that? I don't know if you have more property or I do, and I don't care. And you're not supposed to control me! I can be controlled by the tax office or law enforcement authorities, not by a Member who cares! You can read it at night, our tax returns, I really don't care, I don't read it, but you just won't control me. You have no right to do this! So don't insult me here because you're curious when I bring in some paychecks! I really don't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u61	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Kalousek's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u62	Thank you. Forgive me, I do not wish to extend the personal debate, but as Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, I must stand up for Mr Korte against the attack made by Mr Hájek here when he said he was throwing dirt. Mr Korte stated nothing but that the concentration of persons who cannot be shown a negative illustration certificate and are in the ranks of the ANO movement is also extremely high, unusual and remarkable on Czech terms. This information is verifiable from open sources. And through Mr President, Mr Hájek, it is only a matter of your taste that you want to be part of this party. I'm sure it's not Mr Korte's fault, and he's not throwing any dirt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u63	Thank you. I now ask for a microphone with the de facto remark of Mr Laudát. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. You see, Mr Hájek will have a different problem. He's probably gonna bring some payday bags and stuff in here, but I don't know how he's gonna justify taking people here - I don't know - 52 grand or how rude every month for the crap he's doing here that doesn't belong. That's beneath dignity, and I'd like the leader of the movement to choose some people who can do something next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u65	Thank you. I am now asking whether anyone is reporting to the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and the rapporteur whether they are interested in the final word. It's not like that. Given that Mr Kalousek's proposal to renegotiate the committee's draft law has fallen, I am going to vote on this proposal. Before I do so, I ask you all to come forward again. I am now opening the vote on the draft re-negotiation of the committee's law for re-negotiation. Initiating vote now. I ask who is in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 23, in which 117 Members are enrolled, of which 30 are in favour, against 66. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. I am now opening up a detailed debate in which I have signed up with the priority right of Mr Radim Fiala, and I ask that Mr Ladislav Šincl be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u66	Just briefly allow me to apply to my amendment, which I have read here and was inserted into the system under number 1330.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u67	Thank you. I ask now for Mr Šincl's microphone and for Mr Jiří Dolejš to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u68	Thank you, Madam President. On the last budget committee, I tabled an amendment to the amendment to the Income Tax Act as well as to Mr Hovorka. Its main objective was to eliminate tax inequality and set equal conditions for the use of assets entrusted to the management of the contribution organisations. Unfortunately, my colleague Hovorka and I were not successful on the Committee on Budgets, because colleagues probably did not properly read the explanatory memorandum of the proposal and probably did not understand how this amendment could significantly help contributory organisations such as hospitals and retirement homes. [[12.10 hours]] I promised my fellow Members on the Committee on Budgets that I would submit this proposal once more during the second reading. This is what I promised the representatives of the Association of the Regions of the Czech Republic. Therefore, allow me to sign up for the amendment, which I submitted electronically under number 1329. Mr Hovorka explained this proposal in detail here in the general debate, and it is therefore unnecessary on my part to repeat these arguments. I beg all of you to support my amendment. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u69	Thank you. Now please contact Mr. Jiří Dolejš's microphone. Please prepare Mr. Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u70	Beautiful for lunch. As you may suspect, I will also apply to the proposed amendment and, to be sure, that number is 1324. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u71	Thank you. Mr. Vilímec's microphone, please. Please have Mr. Uhlík prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u72	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to my amendments under House document 1347. I have already presented the reasons for these proposals in the second reading of the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u73	Thank you and please to Mr. Uhlík's microphone. Please prepare Mr Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am signing up for the amendment, which is under number 1342. This amendment concerns two paragraphs, in the first case § 18a. This is a special provision on the subject matter of the tax on publicly beneficial taxpayers. The proposed regulation concerns, in particular, a social service provider, which also provides supplementary health services, but does not need authorisation. Thus, these taxpayers will not be considered as providers of health services for which such an activity is subject to authorisation. That's one. In the latter case, the proposal concerns § 29 para. 1. It actually states what is meant by the entry price of material possessions. Here the adjustment is a negative measure for non-profit organizations as well. From 1. 1. 2014 the price of the initial investment property is reduced not only by all the grants granted for these purposes, as is the case so far, but also by the value of the income received free of charge in the form of a gift for the acquisition of tangible assets. It follows from the provisions for non-profit organisations that they will not be able to form tax-efficient depreciations on these assets. For this reason, I propose at least partial elimination of negative measures, in order to exclude donations from this provision from private persons and entities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u75	Thank you. Now please contact Mr. Petr Fiala's microphone. Please prepare Mr Jan Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u76	Thank you. I am signing up for the amendment, House document 1359, which I explained in detail in the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u77	Thank you. Now please get to Mr. Volný's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u78	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for two amendments, namely proposal 1337, which merely regulates the period of validity of the directive on the regulation of tax relief in the case of private life insurance. It's basically for the reason that insurance companies can prepare for it and redo the contracts. The second document, 1332, reflects the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and compares the tax conditions for providers of agency workers abroad, located in the European Union or in the European Economic Area and represented in the Czech Republic. This compares the tax conditions with the Czech employment agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u79	Thank you. I also have Mr Laudát's application for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u80	Thank you for the floor. I'm just applying formally for a motion to dismiss at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u81	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u82	I would like to refer to House document 1350, which contains an amendment to the investment funds, as I mentioned in the general debate. I know that I can only politely ask either the Minister or the rapporteur to answer those questions for the investment funds, 10x1 and 5x10, and then the liquidation penalty for failing to comply with the 500 000 reporting obligation. Crowns. And of course, if they don't want to, they won't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-002-006.u83	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the appellant and the rapporteur whether they are interested in the final word. It's not like that. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
