ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u1	25. Members of David Kádner, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Petr Adam, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, Martin Lank, Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 145/2010 Coll., on Consumer Credit, as amended / House printing 41/ - first reading Before I invite the plaintiff David Kádner to the speaking room, I call again on you to remain calm! Mr. Kubíček, I'm sorry, but there's a meeting going on and I can't scream at you! Thank you. Please, Counselor, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u2	Thank you. Madam President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, here I am presenting a draft consumer credit law, House Press No. 41. The proposed limit of the annual percentage rate of RPSN costs aims to reduce the negative phenomenon of odds, which is very widespread in the Czech Republic. The proposed change is, in a sense, a breakthrough in the current policy of not meddling the state into the autonomy of the parties' will in providing consumer credit and is directed directly against the very widespread loan-taking practices of a number of non-bank entities. [[10.40 hours]] Unfortunately, long-term practice has shown that the state is not capable of facing this immoral phenomenon in any other way. The authorities active in criminal proceedings have not yet been able to apply the relevant provisions of the criminal law in order to prevent the huge expansion of the loan shark in the Czech Republic. The current text can therefore be considered wholly or largely ineffective. The proposed amendment addresses this deficiency by means of an exhaustive definition of the band in which the RPSN is not considered as a consideration that was grossly in proportion to the performance provided. In the case, the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic has already tried at least twice, both in criminal and civil cases, and in both cases, the court has expressed its opinion on the specific interest rates discussed in the cases in question, which in one case was 70% interest and 60% interest at an average Lombard rate of 3.3 %. In both cases, the Supreme Court held that this was a gross discrepancy with the loan granted, which is contrary to good manners. However, no interest rate which he considered appropriate was mentioned by the court. To a certain extent, the proposed amendment is based on a model applied in Belgium, for example, at a floating interest rate, combined with a fixed limit in extreme declines or an increase in calculation bases. The Lombard rate announced by the Czech National Bank is the basis for the calculation, which best reflects the price of money on the financial market and is used to determine the price at which commercial banks borrow money from the Czech National Bank. Controlled is the entire annual percentage rate of cost instead of a separate interest rate, with fixed percentage limits defined, beyond which the limit of the maximum permissible RPSN cannot reach even under extreme decline or extreme increase in the Lombard rate. Its highest and lowest values over the past 15 years have been taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in deciding whether to support this amendment, common sense will prevail over the political-business lobbies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u3	I thank the appellant, and before I give the floor to Mr Laudát, the rapporteur of this law, I ask Mr Beznoska whether he wants a factual one. You've signed up for the facts. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have been given a rather simple press. As a memoir, I would say that, albeit with some changes, parametric changes, this press has appeared here, I have tracked it since 2008, when it was proposed by social democracy. During the last parliamentary term, it was proposed by Mr Bárta here. This press does not respond to the fact that last year, on the basis of the proposal of the Minister of Finance, an extensive amendment to the Consumer Credit Act was approved. Now to your own subject of the press. Short summary. The proposal to amend the law is not based on any serious analysis, it is not accompanied by an impact assessment and, above all, it is contrary to the opinion of non-profit organisations and serious credit providers. The ceiling of the annual percentage rate of costs will crowd out riskier clients from credit providers complying with the consumer protection law, bound in addition by the ethical rules of the relevant interest associations, to grey and black zone providers with negative effects on their financial and legal situation. Predatory credit providers, who are already targeting consumer interests, borrowers in this case, and often fail to comply with laws, will find ways to circumvent regulation and will be so ineffective, because only banks and large non-bank credit providers who do not conduct any loan-taking practices will follow it. The RPSN regulation will limit the existence of short-term credit products. Based on the results of the studies of German consulting firms, the European Commission gave way to the intention to regulate RPSN. On the other hand, it is possible to systematically reflect on the tightening of supervision and the possibility of entrepreneurship in the market of non-bank credit providers. Now closer to some things. I do not question the godly intention of the proponents of this amendment at all, but this is a case where the magic of the unwelcome person can do the exact opposite, and experts warn about it. It's a bit of a shame, maybe the Minister of Finance will come back, because if you let this law go to second reading with the fact that you might be able to correct it, which I have this information for example. From the Socialist Circle, you're going to incredibly screw him up, because without serious analysis in this way to intervene in the financial services market as well as in the social field - I'm going to make this even more precise and say more - there is a very risky operation. Today, the proposal requiring the ceiling of the RPSN is clearly misguided and is not capable of achieving declared objectives in the field of consumer protection. The reasoned report does not quantify the material at all and does not think any further about the impact, and in what areas this proposal will have an impact at all. Thus, no serious analysis is behind the proposal, and it is even contrary to the opinion of non-profit organizations that provide the existence of the victims of usury. By ceilinging the annual percentage rate of costs, there would be a problem in the case of packages of related products, as the annual percentage rate of costs must include all the costs of ancillary services negotiated with a consumer credit, such as insurance of the ability to repay consumer credit agreed as a condition for granting this credit. In short, if we set this parameter in this case, cheaters will always find a way to transfer it to another field. I quote here a story from Slovakia that proves this. The proposed reduction in the annual percentage rate of costs would lead to the exclusion of a part of the risky and therefore more vulnerable clients from the possibility of obtaining credit from a legal, fairly advancing credit provider. I've already pointed that out. We can talk about regulating this bank's amendment in this case. We will regulate and make the loans more difficult and more expensive for those small consumer loans offered by companies, which means that suddenly it can jump into cutting off demand for the various products offered by sellers today. You know it yourself. Where it hits the most, so it will be small loans up to 5,000 CZK, it will be consumer loans provided in various stores etc. This means that it also turns against the declared government policy to increase consumption. What I consider very risky is that weirdness runs outside the law. They already exist today - and this is backwards than it has already been said here, and today it is also in the material - there are judicial decisions and there are court precedents in the courts, closed to cases that clearly prove that the court can deal with what is loan interest and what is not. And I find that very risky that he'll actually move away from legal providers, because if anyone gets into a difficult financial situation, then he'll be looking for the loan, the loan, take where you take it. And if there are very disadvantageous conditions on the legal market, then, of course, it will start looking in the very circles of loan sharks. [[10.50 hours]] It is important to take into account, and I promised Slovakia. There they proceeded to introduce regulation of RPSN and this led in some cases to link consumer credit with a number of hidden charges and requirements for the closure of various ancillary services, and thus ultimately to a deterioration of the consumer situation. In some cases, the credit conditions have thus become inconspicuous and transparent and have led to the disorientation of consumers on the final cost of credit. Among other reasons, the regulation of RPSN in Slovakia was abolished in a relatively short period of time. I have already said here in the introduction that the regulation was also intended for predatory loans by the European Commission and decided not to accept this regulation from the non-bank sector, but also from the banking, detailed analysis of what it would mean. Again, the problem of usury does not result from the price of financial services. Its basis is rather unfair practices and coercive approaches to consumers, which, under the current legislation, can already be faced with consistent supervision of compliance with the Consumer Credit Act and which can be addressed primarily by deepening awareness of the use of financial products. Such a procedure is actually effective in contrast to the fixing of RPSN ceilings. It's just a list of instruments that are supposed to happen today. As a key - I point out again - is Act No.43/2013 Coll., which we approved here sometime in the first half of last year. Unfortunately, the petitioners of the amendment and apparently the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - I don't know, even the Ministry of Finance does not yet have detailed analyses of the effectiveness of this law in practice. Again, the basic problem is that, in particular, smaller non-bank credit providers are targeting consumer interests and do not comply with the law. That means they won't reflect on it. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, I would like to propose the following procedure as the petitioner - that we should vote on the motion for rejection. In case it doesn't pass, it's a motion to return to work. In the event of failure, at least an extension of 30 days. But I point out again that you will get the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance into a very difficult situation. I believe that it should have time to process real analyses on this issue. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs should come forward to discuss it with each other. I'm just saying, because I'm really worried, I'm deeply afraid that in good faith, we can do the exact opposite here. The Czech Banking Association warns us to approve this amendment in this form. Okay, you can say they're interested in business. However, we are also warned by People in Need, a generally beneficial company, Financial Need Counseling, a generally beneficial company, the Czech leasing financial association, Financial Arbitra Office and the Office of the Government Human Rights Commissioner. I hope that these are strong enough to reflect that this matter should return to the field of government, which has the means to have serious analyses put in place, and only on the basis of those to proceed further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u5	I thank the rapporteur and I ask him to make the proposed proposals one more time later in the general debate. Thank you. Before I open the general debate, I would like to inform you that we have received the Government's position on this proposal as House Press No. 41/1. I hereby open a general debate to which Mrs Havlová, Mr Votava, Mr Tejc, Mr Klaška and Mr Beznoska are signing up. I therefore ask Mrs Havlová to take the floor, and I ask Mr Votava to prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. We're getting to the hot topic again. It's a consumer credit law I'm not afraid to call odds. Here I would like to express my full support for this law. I think that this is a type of standard where we should forget about the right or the left, the bickering of political subjects, and we should think most of all about how weirdly weird the odds are and what a huge number of people are being hit by loan frauds. Unfortunately, the loan shark has become a big business in the Czech Republic, a business with human poverty. And unfortunately, under current practice, it's almost a free-for-nothing crook, despite the fact that we have it defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Unfortunately, the usury is not defeated by the Czech justice system. This bill has had a long history again and follows up on the efforts that have been carried out here repeatedly in the last parliamentary term. As with the abuse of the housing supplement, I hope there is a consensus between all of us that weirdness is a major problem. The odds stand at the beginning of tragic stories that end in executions and ruined human lives. The loan shark companies are the generator of the problem. If we are to break down this fundamental social problem, we will not cut it down to priority by restricting the powers of the executors, nor by debating whether the usury will become immoral, but only by limiting it through rapid legislative measures. All the laws that have been passed here in the past have been all around the bush. No approved amendment went to the heart of the problem, it is a limitation of the total price of the loan, the price that must go around the price of the service, i.e. the loan, but which must not destroy the client. And how else do you explain loans where interest is in tens of thousands of percent? It's nothing more than a loan shark trying to cheat and rob someone. It is not about honest business at all, and it is about restricting honest entrepreneurs. Criminal law and current justice do not recognize the clear limits of what is and is no longer a loan shark. This law aims once and for all to determine where there is a border, where there is a decent business, and where it is robbing. Unfortunately, there is no other way but to make it clear by law, because the custom of some established judicial practice is not in sight in our country. I hope that the new House will be much more sensitive to the real problems of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Votava to the microphone, please. Please have Mr. Tejc prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will try to speak more quietly, not as loudly as yesterday - yes, Mrs Černochová through the President. As has already been said, this issue has been discussed here several times in the last parliamentary term as well. It is certainly necessary to welcome the approach of the petitioners who seek to address the issue of consumer credit, especially the provision of loan-lending, credit, to avoid the practices of certain non-banking institutions. I quote some, because of course many are serious and they provide, I think, consumer loans as they should be provided. It must be said that we live in a time that has many opportunities to improve and make life more enjoyable. We all see media, magazines, flyers literally jumping out at us with all sorts of tempting offers and captivating ads and - well, don't buy it. So maybe a lot of people are thinking, and they just want to make life more enjoyable without assuming the consequences that they also have to pay off the loan someday. They often overestimate their situation in life, and then, of course, they get into big unsolvable problems, beat out credit, etc. [[11.00 hours]] The debt of our households has now reached the limit of CZK 1.2 trillion. So it is an unimaginable amount, or imaginable, when compared to a state budget that is almost at the same level. For one resident last year, the debt was CZK 106,000. That's just to give us an idea of where we're going with household debt. It is also necessary to say, and this has also been done in the media, touches this issue of seniors, pensioners, and is currently about 70,000 pension executions, which is also an unflattering number. Last year, the Chamber of Deputies approved an amendment to the Consumer Credit Act, which precised some provisions. The aim was to address some of the problems of providing these loans, for example as regards credit collateral. Today, for example, it is no longer possible to provide credit with a note. It ordered the credit provider to verify the ability to repay the loan, for example, the overpriced telephone lines for the negotiation of loans ended. It was also a question of withdrawal from the contract, where it is stated that the debtor may withdraw from the contract within 14 days under certain conditions. I have spoken here several times on the subject of consumer credit in the past period, and I have always pointed out that there is also a need to address the lack of financial literacy of our citizens. That this thing starts in schools and schools should be taught financial literacy, because of course many people, the older ones of course may not be able to catch these things, but the younger ones certainly don't even read the contract properly, they don't know what RPSN is, they don't know what interest is, and so on. These are basic concepts that everyone should know in some way if they want to enter into a loan agreement. As far as the petitioners' proposal is concerned, I said that I understood the meaning of their proposal, but I do not think that this is a solution in the right direction. We submitted a parliamentary proposal in 2010, I believe, which also dealt with the ceiling of the RPSN, when we wanted to deal with it by the Government's regulation, which means that the government will issue a regulation in which it will determine the average annual percentage rate of costs per calendar year. I am not saying that this is not a matter that we should not discuss or that it has been clearly set for us. He didn't accept our proposal after all. We also discussed the issue of contractual fines, which should not have exceeded the amount of consumer credit. So, in conclusion, I think that we should not reject this parliamentary proposal, we should release it for second reading, we should try to find other ways in the debate to interpret the Consumer Credit Act, so that there is even greater protection for debtors, provided, of course, that debt has to be paid, that is quite clear. But to represent there, or even to think about how to exclude those providers from the non-banking sphere that provide usury interest, who have these outrageous practices. So I think there is quite a lot to discuss, and we could discuss this very thoroughly in committee. At the same time, I would like to propose that there be time to discuss, in order to extend the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And before I give the floor to Mr Tejc, Mr Zahradník is in fact signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on Mr Votava. On the one hand, of course, many people are convinced that they are entitled to all the things that advertising offers them. And if they can't make money, they have a duty to borrow the money. But he mentioned one more important thing, and that is that our education should devote itself to increasing the promotion of economic and financial literacy, namely the education of people about what it means to actually take credit, what the consequences might be. I think that this education should be significantly strengthened from primary schools and should, of course, be taken over by secondary schools. There are already teacher training programmes in universities that are able to teach economic literacy in a qualified way. In my opinion, these programmes deserve our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual fact, I have Mr Kořenko's enrollment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just follow up on my previous speaker. Yes, there's a financial literacy program in primary schools. The Ministry of Education included this issue in teaching. This was also helped by a programme called EU money to schools. It was a program from ESF 1.4. The Ministry of Education. I confirm the need to place much more emphasis on this issue in education, and I think that the Ministry of Education will follow this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another de facto Mr Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u14	I'll just follow up on my previous speakers briefly. We have been working very hard in the election program, and we will continue to report to it, I believe that the whole government, to what is usual in neighbouring countries that we are very close to, means in Germany and Austria. These are so-called civil education, which is very much cared for. It is not for you to be confused with the civil education that we know from primary or secondary school, but it is the whole system that raises a person for citizenship, but for practical citizenship, and highlights the economic, financial and other aspects here. Of course, financial literacy is an important component there. So that's what we want to do in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another Mr Blažek in fact and then Mr Plzák in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u16	Hello, thank you for your word. You know, I don't mind learning anything at school, but the question is my belief in that it's enough to make the world a better place. We need to realize this bill is called consumer credit. It means, it's not that people borrow for not having a living, but very often they borrow for things that they don't really need too much, but because someone else has them, typically some student has the best phone in school, so the others want to have one. That's how people get in debt because of things that aren't so needed. The problem is, basically, when I quote Švejk, "it's what we live when people lend us," it's just that some part of society gets used to it and likes it. Tragedy occurs when political entities such as úsvit, which actually, in order to win the votes of debtors, basically criticizes the recovery of claims, which is the basic thing that is necessary for a perfectly healthy economy, but at the same time tries to limit the borrowers. This means that they are actually chasing people into it: loans will be more advantageous for you, but they may not be able to enforce themselves yet, because we will completely limit the recovery of claims. In hrabalovsky, that's an ad for a house I really don't want to live in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please Mr. Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u18	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues, my point will be very short, it will be more of a sigh that on such a simple thing that if I borrow it, I have to return it, and that even the loan is not free and that there is some interest in it, we have to introduce a system of education in schools, it will just sigh where we have done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, please, Mr. Tejc to the microphone. Please have Mr. Klaška prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u20	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I did not expect to get to the floor any more, and thank you for that. I would return from this education to the substance of the bill, although determining financial literacy is a fundamental part of the debate, but I would like to return to what the law is talking about, but also to what is lacking in it. As Social Democrats, we have made a bill that has adjusted the maximum amount of RPSN, i.e. the annual percentage rate of costs, already in 2009, and I am glad that the authors this time from Dawn have inspired our novel, though not in full, even if they solve the problem a little differently than we would. First comment on the amount. I think that it is not right, even though we have already done so in the first proposal and modified it in others, it is not entirely appropriate, in my view, to put the RPSN directly into the law, simply because if there are individual changes, there must be a change in the law and every change in the law threatens that the law will either be abolished or so amended in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate that it will eventually lose its original meaning. This is, in my view, a solution which is, of course, possible, but not entirely appropriate, and I would recommend, as has already been said here by Mr Votava, that we change the adjustment at second reading so that the maximum rate will be set for example. the government, by its regulation, will be able to change it each year, if necessary in a given year, so that the regulation does not always require the amendment of the law. [[It's busy in the hall.]] What is lacking in the law is the regulation of sanctions. I think even this is a bigger problem than the rate itself. If someone closes a contract, they say that they want to pay interest, including a contract fee of 30% or 15 %, it is not as harmful as deciding to pay a rate of 5 per cent and subsequently, for petty reasons, penalties of 100, 200 or 300 per cent of the original claim. This is far more harmful, and it often means that small loans of CZK 10,000 will climb to hundreds of thousands and with enforcement, with legal representation costs and execution costs, are unsolvable for many people. What must be added to the law is the limitation of sanctions, far more than it is under the current regulation, and here I think we can find a consensus. And the third thing that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u21	Ambassador, I am so sorry, and I ask my colleagues on the left side of the Chamber to remain calm. You really can't hear your own words here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u22	I'm sorry, I'm gonna talk louder, it's probably my fault, and I'm gonna try to be more engaging. What I believe we need to adjust to the third time in the proposal is that, if similar contracts are concluded, it is not possible to use arbitration clauses with direct enforceability unless certain rules of fairness are fulfilled, i.e. if e.g. the conclusion of a contract contrary to the very limited penalty mechanisms. We simply find ourselves in a number of cases today in a situation where people who have a contract, not with a financial institution, come to me as a Member with a legal education, but with individuals who lend money. The contract is obviously problematic, perhaps even invalid, but they are already in execution and can hardly, in view of the fact that there are no legal proceedings, in any way attack the already concluded clause of direct enforceability, i.e. either by notary or earlier executor registration concluded by the contract. These are the things that we have to deal with, and it would be inappropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to reject, for example, the Social Democrats' votes, the idea that she herself came up with and opened for the first time in this Chamber of Deputies. That is why we will support this proposal to be moved forward to second reading. But as I say, it needs to be specified and tightened up in my opinion. I think it would be appropriate for the Ministry of Finance to provide synergies in this matter, so that, together, on the board of the Budget and Constitutional Law Committee, we can find the position of a law that is acceptable to the majority in the House and therefore has a longer service life than this term, if we agree on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u23	Thank you, Mr Member, and now I have two Members, Mr Fiedler and Mrs Langšádlová on the point of fact. Mr. Fiedler, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u24	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I would just like to respond briefly to the words that have been said here by my colleague Jeroným Tejc, when it was once again mentioned in this Chamber of Deputies that the law has already been discussed in the past and that it was submitted in 2007 or 2009, as has been said. That he has already been presented to my colleague in the previous Chamber of Deputies, and once again this problem is being addressed. I would therefore appeal to you that citizens expect these problems to be resolved and not to be dealt with, that we will talk about dealing with them. It is the second time we have heard here today that a law has been introduced several times and that it will be dealt with, that we will promise to solve it. I really appeal to you to support this law. Thank you for the comments that have been made here. To send him to a second reading, so that we can approach this problem, because those citizens who are affected by this are not waiting for a solution in the future. Many of them need that solution immediately. And the loan shark interest we're dealing with here, you realize it's one of the first steps into the hands of the executor. There are traps lurking around for citizens. That they need to be educated, well that's nice, but the solution is quite simple. Let's cut the odds. Citizens expect you to represent their interests first and foremost. So I intercede for us not to deal with this law in the past, so that we do not deal with it now and perhaps in the future, but I call on you to move forward with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and Mrs. Langšádlová, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u26	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal we have here, but it doesn't solve anything. Because let's say what RPSN is, what interest is. The interest shall take into account the risk that the person who provides the money perceives in relation to the person to whom it provides it. That means, if the risk is higher than your established RPSN rate, then what do we do? We only cause costs to shift, for example. in higher credit insurance, or we cause these most endangered groups to be driven into a grey or black zone that is not regulated at all. The effects of adopting a similar proposal are really extremely risky and we need to realise that we will not solve anything and, on the contrary, we will make this environment worse. Yes, we must address the question of odds. Expansion of usury to legal persons. We need to push for the loan shark to be really enforced. We need to regulate the non-bank financial service providers, which we have here 34,000. No doubt. But what you are proposing is a huge risk, and that is why the organisations that are currently working with these people do not support it. Therefore it does not support Man in Need, therefore it does not support poradna in Financial Needs. Because the risks of the adoption of this law will be significantly higher than the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u27	Thank you, colleague Langšádlová. We have one more factual point - Mr Jeroným Tejc. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u28	Thank you. I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Fiedler. Simply through Mr President, you do not have to challenge me or social democracy and appeal to support such a proposal, or to address the situation. Like I said, we've made these proposals in the past. They were not accepted, although we all voted for them. They were not adopted because there was a majority here that prevented the adoption of this bill, this amendment. We are prepared to discuss this matter, and we certainly do not want to reject this proposal here in order to prepare our own version, as it often sounded in the House, but to use this proposal for a solution that will certainly benefit. I also understand Mrs Langšádlová's reservations. Surely the adjustment must not be such that, in the end, from a zone that will be regulated, it will transfer people into a zone that is absolutely unregulated. And that's the thing that we need to be careful about, and we definitely need to talk about it, because the problem really isn't black and white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u29	I thank Mr Jeroný Tejc and we will return to proper applications for the debate. The first candidate is Mr Klaška. A colleague of Beznoska will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u30	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues present, hello. I would like to appreciate the proposal of the petitioners, which I understand as a contribution to the solution of odds, but I also consider it not entirely sophisticated, because it could also happen that, paradoxically, by approving this proposal as it is, we could, in fact, legalize usury in some way. I would like to base my claim on a few arguments. One. There are already two Supreme Court judicatures in the Czech Republic, which clearly state that interest above 65 percent, respectively. in the second case, above 70 per cent, the gross discrepancy between the mutual performance of the perpetrator and the injured within the meaning of Section 253 (1) (a) of the Code shall be: 1 of the Criminal Code. In other words, more than 70 percent is weird. If we go back to the design, there are 80, respectively. 100 per cent, depending on the size of the loan. Two. If we take inspiration from other countries, it is clear that there are interest rates, i.e. RPSN, i.e. annual percentage rates of costs, set substantially below. I can mention Belgium, which also has more types of loans, which are between 13 and 21 percent. Or if you propose that it be 15-20 times the lombard rate, we can give an example of Poland, where it has been valid for years. the Anti-Shift Act, and there the rate was up to four times this rate. I can give you more examples. It was here, I tušit Mr Laudát spoke of Poland. I can also give an example of the Netherlands, where loans up to 40 thousand. EUR is limited by legal interest plus 17 %. For the next one. The restriction of RPSN against usury alone doesn't help that much. First of all, there is the Supreme Soda judicature, as I spoke of it, but mainly there are no contractual fines and interest on them. In some cases, they can reach several times the amount lent. And then there's this system where you take a loan of relatively lower value, like 50 to 200 thousand, for which you have to vouch for real estate. Unfortunately, there is already a combination of loan sharks, executors and auctioneers. The essence of this is to lend to the client, in business conditions to hide such fines and conditions that the client does not even have the opportunity to pay properly, and the system of fines, interest, execution, seizure of the house, auction by a related real estate agency, etc. is already underway. There are examples of when the loan of 200 thousand. The debt grew by confiscating a house worth two million crowns, the debtor was still in debt and without the house. So I would like to, or would like to, if this proposal should be released at all, so that it is fundamentally amended and recast, so that all the mechanisms are incorporated in it, as my colleagues have mentioned here. Both sanctions and in some way continue to regulate that well, the RPSN will be some, then it will circumvent charges, contractual penalties, deadlines for their repayment and so on. So then we don't have to be bitterly sorry about legalizing usury. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u31	I thank Mr Klašek for his speech, but I will change him a little, unlike the announced order. I'll read the apology first. The Minister of Justice, Professor Helena Válková, has been apologizing since 2:00 p.m. from today's meeting. And now it is time for Mr Martin Komárek's factual remark. Then a duly registered colleague, Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on my colleague, Klaška. I don't think there's any point in talking about how it sometimes happens, heartbreaking stories about moms who are being entertained by things for little kids and stuff like that. But the real problem of usury or excessive consumer credit is one of the country's biggest problems. I'm meeting this in my constituency today and every day. So I also think that this law, as it is designed, is not entirely perfect. But given how I approach what I do, I think he should be released further and corrected. Just like it's with the service law. Because what Mr. Klaška said is true. I think the devil is buried in additional conditions, in what is written in small print. The fact that people who borrow 10 grand don't know they're gonna give back 200 grand because it's tangled up in there somewhere so they don't understand. Because we're not all financially literate, and we all understand the tricks and traps that ladies and gentlemen who are trying to impose on us these loans are planning. But I think we're gonna have enough time to get this bill done so he can start paying as soon as possible or the novel. 'Cause I really think that's a huge need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u33	Thank you for keeping time. And now a duly registered colleague, Beznoska. So far, the last in writing entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many have been said. I submit that I cannot support this proposal. We would have knocked out standard market conditions by ceilinging the RPSN. Because the credit provider should be the sovereign who decides under what conditions he is willing to provide consumer credit, considering what commodity it is for, what time it is, etc. The moment you put a damper on something and you do regulation, and we shouldn't regulate our lives all the time, it's gonna cause more risky clients to fall for the people we've been talking about. The loan sharks. We're going to limit the volume of consumer credit available on the market by putting our clients in the black zone. And those providers, non-bank providers, we have over 30 grand here. All I think is that we should think about supervision, supervision and rules and sanctions, as Mr Tejc spoke about it in the non-bank sector. It's the only way we can protect these clients from usury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u35	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. I have two factual points here. A colleague of Holík and a colleague of Plzák. Now, colleague Jaroslav Holík, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u36	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond here to the words of my previous speaker and, if necessary, to the words of the rapporteur. In road transport we have over 50. Isn't that right? It is. And no one's offended if they can drive more or not. This is where we're talking about putting a bullet in it, that it's harmful. But if we determine a measure beyond which this border will not be crossed, it is nothing against other consumers. I don't know, I thought we were all elected people here, not some finance businessman. So I intercede myself let this law go to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u37	Thank you for keeping time. And now, therefore, Mr Pavel Plzák, also on the point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, co-workers, I just want to say that here it was said that whoever lends should be a sovereign and that there should be no ceiling on interest. I would just like to say that historically, even in the Middle Ages, it was essentially lent up to a maximum of 6%. That was Christian interest. Only žid could lend more interest, so it is called unchristian interest. So even historically, there was some kind of ceiling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u39	Thank you for a quick remark. We have not yet exhausted the debate, I see a colleague, Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Just for a very short time. I agree with previous speakers because this is not about defending someone in business, regulating what is good, but it is true that how many times an institution, let's call it this, it's already exaggerated, and it leads to problems that we want to go to, too, and it has already been said, and these are executions and other problems. That is why I would also like to ask you, and I think it has fallen several times in the debates and debates here to release this amendment to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u41	Thank you. I am of the opinion that I have no application for a debate. I'm asking if anyone's still checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking the final words, first the plaintiffs' representatives, if they're interested. My colleague Kádner is not interested. Now, then, the rapporteur with the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say to myself that I have failed to explain to you what the problem is. That is why I insist and repeat that I will try the whole cascade of proposals from the proposals for rejection to the re-evaluation to the extension of the deadline, which said that it would be willing to do so, and I would ask very much to vote on the proposals on the commandments of the committees, so that, in addition to the budget, which I propose is probably a Gesture Committee, it was also given to the committee for consideration to the petition committee. There I hope you will meet those NGOs and hear the impact of your possible decision in practice. By wanting this, I didn't question the fact that there couldn't be any problems. But I do not see any figures from the material available here, I do not see an analysis of what a burning problem this is after it was across the political spectrum last year - that is how I want to respond to Mrs Havlová - approved by Act No. 43 on consumer credit. We have all agreed on this, because we have all felt or overwhelming majority, I do not remember whether anyone has abstained or voted against that a number of pathological phenomena especially in the Ústecký Region, Moravian-Silesian Region, Jesenicek and the like need to be corrected by law, and we do not yet have a feedback on how effective these instruments are, and there are financial instruments. As for... Mr Votava, Mr Zahradník, Mr Kořenek, colleague Blažek, Mr Plzák and others have pointed out financial literacy. Let's not be illusioned. If today, and in the long run, we have such education that they do not teach even the basic griffins and teach especially socially excluded people where this issue falls in particular, but not only there, because it is regrettable for anyone to be able to thicken in non-payment of credit, but I am not illusioning myself and probably none of us that there will be any radical remedy. Financial literacy in the Czech Republic is disastrous, it is only a reflection of education that does not teach soft grifa, soft knowledge, soft knowledge, teaches some hard data, often meaningless, without deep analysis, and simple things to take credit, how to pay it back, from what to repay, so then we cannot expect it to be any different. Therefore, I am very worried and repeat, with this perhaps good motivation, you can participate in increasing crime. And I wanted nothing more than the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to have space, and it's not about 60, 90 days to actually get a serious and detailed analysis done, and then they came up with the fact that it doesn't work here, so we're gonna fix the consumer credit bill here, or you're not right, this is not the problem at all. I don't know if you're able to say today that there's a problem after the consumer credit bill is passed. At the same time, I advocate the motivation of the Social Democrats who have been making similar proposals since 2009, because the pathological phenomenon in the form of a failure, the looting of debtors beyond what they have borrowed, is multiple, in order, so I understand that they were dating some attempts to solve the problem. But at this point, I'm not sure it's this segment. You're just gonna do one thing. You punish those who do fair business, in accordance with the law, you make access to credit worse, funds worse, and you drive people into a gray or black zone. You can strengthen the position of loan sharks, I don't know, because these analyses don't exist, but that's why I'm afraid, and you'll more or less achieve the exact opposite of what you intended. So that's on my part, because there's no point in me repeating the definition here of what weird is and that this law doesn't apply to that. So please vote on the proposals that have fallen here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u43	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am registering here an application that I cannot comply with on a factual point, because I have ended the debate. So I'm erasing my co-worker Kořenko. We will vote on individual proposals. The motion for repayment has fallen, the motion for rejection has fallen, they must be voted first, and then we will vote on the commandments of the committees and the time limits for discussion. I called my colleagues. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I am now pointing out that the proposals for repayment and rejection were only in the rapporteur's report. I have a note that my colleague Laudát has presented them. They did not fall in the debate. So now I do not want to give the rapporteur any reason to question that he has said the proposals, but because they were not in the debate, it is only that one of the ministers would open the debate. That is all I can advise, Mr rapporteur. The Vice-President of the Government has taken up the matter and will open the debate. Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek volunteered. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u44	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to open the debate again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u45	Thank you. I see the rapporteur's application, which comes first, and then a colleague of Mr Votava comes forward. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'm so sorry for my mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm making a motion to dismiss the motion. Then I'm making a motion, in case he doesn't pass, to return to the process. And if that doesn't work, the motion to extend the deadline for a 30-day hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-002-025.u47	Yes. Mr. Václav Votava... No, it's not. It's been said. Okay. I still have to ask the rapporteur if this proposal was conditional, because otherwise it is voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - first the return and then the rejection. Whether it was a conditional proposal or whether I can vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr rapporteur? Under the Rules of Procedure, okay. I checked you out, you all signed up. We are going to vote on the bill's proposal for revision in the vote number 106, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of returning the proposal for revision. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 106, from 166 present for 32, compared to 92. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the motion to reject, in the vote on order number 107 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 107, from 167 in favour of 34, against 102. The motion was not accepted. We will now consider the draft of the commandment. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. The rapporteur submitted a proposal for consideration to the Committee on Petitions. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see. We will decide on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets in the vote number 108, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 108, from present 170 for 165, against 1. The motion was accepted. We are going to vote on the commandment of the petition committee, in voting order number 109, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the petition committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 109, from the present 170 for 154, against 4. This proposal has also been adopted. We will now vote on an extension of the deadline for discussion of 30 days, i.e. to 90 days, in the vote on order number 110 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of extending the deadline for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 110, from the present 170 for 164, against 1. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Petitions. The time limit for the hearing was 90 days. Thank you to the representatives of the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 25. The next item is the item
